# Site: https://www.ncl.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 459
# --------

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk:
Explore the exciting world of Medical Sciences by joining us for a series of interactive lectures delivered by expert clinicians and academics.
Find out what it’s like to be a student at Newcastle University.
Explore your future at Newcastle and join us on campus.
All you need to know about studying at Newcastle as an international student.
We are a world-leading university, advancing knowledge, providing creative solutions, and addressing global problems.
A Newcastle University business expert has been awarded the prestigious Daniel A.
Wren Research Award for Contributions to Management History by the Academy of Management (AOM).
Dr Joe Lockwood has been awarded the 7th International Handel Research Prize by The Georg Friedrich Händel Society.
Fine Art lecturer Angel Cohn Castle and her artistic partner Davide Bugarin will present a multi-layered new project which will explore complex emotional legacies of shame, pride and celebration.
Our researchers are developing solutions to some of the most pressing issues facing the world today.
We collaborate with governments, industry, the creative and cultural sector and community groups.
We offer a world-class education at a world-leading university, in the heart of one of the UK's favourite student cities.
Newcastle University Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 7RU
Telephone: +44 (0)191 208 6000
Support us
Social media directory
Contact Us
© Newcastle University

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers:
Welcome to the Careers Service.
Whatever stage you are at, we are here to support you.
You can access one-to-one support, workshops and online resources to help you make informed decisions about your future.
If you are a current student or if you have graduated within the last three years, you can access expert advice and support throughout the year.
You can access in-person or online appointments, workshops and events.
We offer a range of online tools and resources to enable you to get instant information and feedback.
If you're an employer, find out how you can connect with our students and graduates to promote awareness and advertise your vacancies.
Understanding your options is a key stage of career planning.
Access information and support to help you with career planning and finding out about occupations.
Learn how to network and meet professionals working in the sector you are interested in.
Feel confident about your next steps, whether that's a graduate job or scheme, further study or self-employment.
Developing your skills through work experience and study can help with career planning and securing a graduate job.
There are a range of options to choose from to suit you and your degree stage.
Whether you want to take year out from study to build experience or gain virtual experience you'll find information to support you.
Whether you're looking for a graduate or part-time job, we can help you to research employers and find vacancies.
Use our information and resources to find and apply for jobs in the UK and overseas.
Find out how to register with a recruitment agency to help you with your job search.
Our START UP team can help you start or grow a business, social enterprise or freelance career.
We work with any student or recent graduate who wants to be self-employed, full or part-time.
Whether you’re just curious, considering it or already doing it, we'll support you and your goals at every stage of your start-up journey, from pre-idea to launch and beyond.
Whether you're unsure of what you want to do after your studies or if you already have career goals in mind, we're here to support you.
Find out about the range of in-person and online support on offer through the Careers Service.
Whatever career you're interested in, we can help you make an impact.
Find out how to make a successful application, from creating a standout CV to impressing at interview.
In this section you will also find advice on what to do next if you are offered a job, including negotiating salary and what to do if you are unsure.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library:
Loading study spaces...
Loading building opening hours...
Loading desk opening hours...
Contact us with your enquiries, ask a question and get in touch with Library departments or people.
Borrow books, recommend items for purchase, and use the Inter-Library Loan service.
Books, journals, and databases tailored to your discipline and resource-specific guides.
Find out about Library research services, Open Access and research data management.
Locate key journal and databases and find resources on your module reading lists.
Discover the range of bespoke print products on offer and place your order online.
Resources and workshops to develop your skills, and support from the Academic Skills Team.
Loading events...
Email: libraryhelp@ncl.ac.uk Telephone: +44 (0) 191 208 7662
Philip Robinson Library Jesmond Road West Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4HQ
Library Help Visiting the Library Book an appointment

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/students:
Access a range of student support services from wellbeing and careers to student finance and find out about working on campus.
Explore our Student Welcome guide for everything you need to know about joining us.
Read important information about the latest updates in the Student Portal
On these pages you'll find links to all the essential information and portals you need throughout your student journey
Make the most of your experience at University by creating your own individual Newcastle experience.
Find out more about opportunities, extracurricular activities and student voice
Find the latest information on student life, including answers to common student enquiries
You can see the latest University updates on our Student Noticeboard
Find out more about the support and resources available that may help you with the cost of living.
We have study spaces and PCs available on campus if you need them – find out about opening times and availability
Explore the possibilities.
Find everything you need to know about the library from opening times to updates and advice
Our Student Health and Wellbeing Services are here to help and support you, so you can make the most of your time at University.
Find everything you need on regulations, procedures and reporting a change in circumstances, as well as how to access your transcript, council tax certificate and certificate of attendance
Information and student services online support for all your IT needs
Everything you need from the Students' Union from activities to representation
Support and information for all your accommodation needs
Information and student support on fees, funding and finance
Find out about student reps, how to contact them and how to get your voice heard
The Careers Service is here for you whether you are planning your next steps, looking to start a business or want to enhance your CV
Information for students working on campus, including student worker registration and payment instructions.
Newcastle University is open about its spending and finances.
This resource will help you to quickly understand the breakdown of University income and how we spend it.
Student Services, King's Gate, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 7RU
Telephone: +44 (0) 191 208 3333

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/staffandstudents:
Everyone at Newcastle University, from staff to students, is part of a very special community.
We support every individual, whether you are:
A hub of information that will help you make a difference in your job.
Everything you need to know from accommodation to fees and funding.
IT services that will help you get connected and stay connected.
Books, e-books, journals and more are available through the University library.
Find out what's available in Newcastle and how you can apply.
Browse through the latest job opportunities and learn about different careers.
Discover our huge range of sports courses, facilities and clubs on campus.
This notice explains how we'll collect and use your personal data.
Data protection information for prospective, current and former students.
This notice explains how we'll collect and use your personal data on our website.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/press:
Press Office
Newcastle University >
published on: 21 August 2025
published on: 20 August 2025
Professor Bethan Davies has been selected as a lead author for the forthcoming Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Assessment Report 7.
Some Kind of Love: Actions and Reactions to Living on a Damaged Planet, an exhibition by award-winning artist Professor Uta Kögelsberger, will open at the Hatton Gallery, on 20 September.
published on: 18 August 2025
Writing for The Conversation, Dr Dimitris Skleparis and colleagues discuss why understanding and overcoming the empathy gap may help to calm the anger demonstrated at recent anti-immigrant protests.
published on: 14 August 2025
Writing for The Conversation, Chloe Josse-Durand discusses how Britain won’t own up to its colonial violence but communities need closure
published on: 12 August 2025
A Newcastle University international student has discovered a rare piece of 9th century gold in Northumberland during her first archaeological excavation.
published on: 11 August 2025
Writing for The Conversation, Phoebe Lewis, Ainsley Hatt and Dr Sarah Coulthard discuss how the UK is losing its small fishing boats – and the communities they support.
published on: 8 August 2025
See more stories
Press Office enquiries
The people and stories behind the research
Join us on Twitter
Subscribe with RSS
Newcastle University YouTube Channel
Newcastle University, NE1 7RU, United Kingdom, Telephone: (0191) 208 6000 From outside the UK dial +44 191 208 6000
Email web editor
Last updated 8 April 2020 © Newcastle University

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/events:
Discover events and activities in and around Newcastle University.
At Newcastle University you can enjoy an extensive programme of public lectures, music concerts, gallery exhibitions and other activities, right here on campus.
All the venues are a short walk from each other and are close to the city centre.
Plus, many of our cultural venues and events are free to attend.
INSIGHTS Public Lectures are held every week during term time and are free and open to all.
The LIVE Music in the King's Hall programme includes lunchtime concerts and student performances.
Featuring the latest developments in health, science and culture and the creative arts from Newcastle University.
Our cultural venues and heritage collections are open to the public as well as our staff and students.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/contact:
Find out the best way to contact Newcastle University.
You can contact us through our general enquiries form .
You can also call our switchboard on +44 (0) 191 208 6000.
We don't have a University-wide email address but you can write to us.
Our postal address is:
Newcastle University Newcastle upon Tyne Tyne and Wear NE1 7RU United Kingdom
You can also get in touch with individual teams for the following specific enquiries:
If you’re a prospective student and want to find out about studying at Newcastle you can request a prospectus .
If you have admissions questions fill in our enquiries form and a member of the team will get back to you.
If you're a former student and want to find out about alumni events, volunteering or donating to the University contact the Newcastle University Advancement team .
If you need to request a duplicate degree certificate or transcript visit our Student Progress website.
Members of the press and media should contact our Press Office .
Businesses interested in recruiting students and graduates for work and placements can contact our Careers Service .
To talk to us about research support , commercial services and consultancy contact our support teams .
If you're interested in finding out more about international relations at Newcastle University, you can contact us by email .
If you're a current student in need of support and guidance, please contact the Student Engagement Team .
If you are a local resident and want to contact the University for advice on, or to discuss, student conduct in the community, please get in touch .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are:
We exist to advance education and research and to help society tackle the many challenges it faces.
As a founding member of the Russell Group of research-intensive Universities, we’ve been working to understand our world since 1834.
We push the boundaries of knowledge through innovation and creativity.
Ranked as a Global top 140 University, our research and teaching are world leading.
We have three campu ses in Newcastle, Singapore, and Malaysia .
Our 29,000-strong student community is drawn from over 135 countries .
O ur community of over 270,000 alumni are creating outstanding impact around the globe.
We educate for life .
We’ve nurtured generations of students to play their part in building a society that’s better, stronger, and fairer.
We’ve developed a global network of strategic industry partners and employers.
Our collaborations are providing ideas and solutions of economic, social and cultural benefit for our world.
We are a University of Sanctuary .
W e promote a culture of welcome, engagement and safety for people fleeing persecution and violence.
From Newcastle.
For the world.
Our strengths include ageing and health, data, cities and place, one planet, culture and creative arts.
Through our work we're advancing knowledge, providing creative solutions and tackling global challenges.
We're committed to ensuring there’s enough for everyone, forever.
Our vision is our ambition for Newcastle University.
Our strategy is our four key, interlinked focus areas.
Our work touches lives and inspires global change.
Discover our latest stories on our blog.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/quality:
Our focus on excellent research and teaching makes Newcastle University world-leading.
Newcastle has become one of 12 universities in the world , and only four in the UK, to achieve five plus QS Stars from QS Quacquarelli Symonds, the first international assessment of its kind.
More than 150 universities in over 35 countries have now signed up to the QS Stars rating system.
We have a world-class reputation for research excellence.
We were 16th in the UK for research power in the latest Research Excellence Framework, and our research has global impact.
We provide quality teaching and a great student experience.
Our awards, accreditations and student satisfaction survey results demonstrate our commitment.
Newcastle University graduates have one of the best records for graduate employability in the UK.
Our commitment to academic excellence, teaching quality and student experience is demonstrated through our position in global rankings.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/quality/research-excellence:
Newcastle University has a world-class reputation for research excellence.
We were 16th in the UK for research power in the most recent Research Excellence Framework, and our research has global impact.
As a member of the Russell Group , an association of 24 research-intensive institutions in the UK, we are committed to delivering pioneering research that makes a positive impact in the world .
From reversing Type 2 diabetes to protecting cultural property, our researchers are tackling international challenges to improve lives and influence policy around the world.
Read our case studies to find out about our research impact .
We have one of the largest European Union research portfolios in the UK .
Our research partnerships span the globe, including strategic partnerships with Monash University in Australia and Groningen University in the Netherlands.
Newcastle University researchers are also working with international partners to tackle global challenges such as ending poverty and cutting sugar consumption through our Global Challenges Academy .
Our high-quality academic work is responsive to large-scale societal needs and demands.
See how we’re helping to make the world a better place.
We partner with governments, industry and cultural organisations that share our values, providing world-class research and teaching.
We're working with partners around the globe to tackle challenges facing society today.
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is the latest in a series of national research assessment exercises in recent decades.
It encompasses research undertaken from 2014 until December 2020.
REF 2021 confirmed growth in research excellence and impact at Newcastle:
These reflect the contributions from a growing team of researchers which has increased by 54% this time.
The results consolidate our position as one of the UK’s world-leading broad-based research-intensive universities.
Read about our REF 2021 results
So much of the research we do here at Newcastle is genuinely world-leading, spanning a full range of disciplines - and often bringing those disciplines together to produce real impacts that make our world a better place.
We are proud to have received honours for our world-class research.
We have received Queen's Anniversary Prizes for our:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/quality/teaching-and-experience:
At Newcastle, we provide quality teaching and a great student experience.
Newcastle University was founded in 1834 to educate the pioneers of the industrial revolution.
Teaching was then, and is still, at the heart of our University: at Newcastle we educate for life, to develop and nurture successive generations of creative practitioners, clinicians, scientists, engineering and educationalists, and set them on the path to make their own mark on society.
We hold the QAA Quality Mark for our high quality of academic standards and learning.
The QAA commended the wide range of ways we develop the employability of our students.
You can read the full QAA review report online.
We are proud of our academic staff for the quality of teaching they give to our students.
In recognition of individual excellence, nine of our academics have received a National Teaching Fellowship .
Our University library is the only one in the UK to have received the Charter Mark five times.
We now hold the Customer Services Excellence award, which replaced the old award.
Newcastle University Business School is in the 1% of business schools worldwide to hold the triple accreditation:
As a university with a global reputation, we work hard to make sure our students receive a great experience.
The high-quality student experience at Newcastle University is reflected in our rankings.
We're top 25 in Europe for Teaching Excellence (Times Higher Education Europe Teaching Rankings 2019).
69% of Newcastle University students are satisfied with their experience (NSS 2021).
We have a reputation for sporting excellence.
We're ranked top ten in the British Universities and Colleges Sports League (BUCS).
I have found my lecturers to be well qualified, really kind and ready to help if you have any problem or issue.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/quality/employability:
94% of our 2020/21 graduates entered employment or further study within 15 months of graduating.
The quality of our degrees, our focus on transferrable skills and our reputation with employers puts us in the top 30 for Graduate Prospects (across Graduate Outcomes measures in The Sunday Times, The Guardian, and The Complete University Guide).
Our Careers Service is one of the most innovative in the UK.
We offer our students:
Our support helps students in a challenging job market .
The Careers Service provide workshops tailored to specific degrees to maximise the chances of our students landing the dream job.
Graduates of Newcastle benefit from careers support for three years after graduation as well as business start-up support on an on-going basis.
Newcastle University was awarded 5 QS Stars for employability (2025).
Almost all degrees are available with a year-long work placement to help you stand out from the crowd in the competitive graduate job market.
Impress your host and you might even get a job offer.
Deciding on a career path takes time, research and good advice.
We have the expertise to get you started.
Whether you're looking for a graduate career, starting your own business or embarking on further study Newcastle University's Careers Service can provide advice and support.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/quality/rankings:
The main UK university league tables and guides.
These figures show our recent ranking amongst UK universities.
These figures show our recent ranking amongst universities around the world.
The REF is a national exercise to evaluate research quality.
Single topic rankings focus on one metric, such as employability.
They are typically more reliable than the popular compound rankings.
It is estimated that there are about 17,000 universities in the world.
They are of a wide variety, operate in different contexts, and may pursue different aims and objectives.
Therefore, it does not always make sense to rank one of them as better or worse than the other.
Still, there are attempts to compile rankings and league tables of 'the best' universities in the world, or in any given country.
League tables attempt to measure the best universities in the world or in any given country.
Since universities operate in different contexts and pursue different objectives, you should look at as many league tables as you can, and treat them all with caution.
Different league tables measure different things.
You should check whether the table you're looking at actually measures the things you're interested in.
They also assign different weights to the things they do measure.
You should know which of the topics they cover they consider to be more important.
The weightings may vary from one year to the next (often without any notice or explanation).
This would affect the rankings even if nothing else had changed.
Small changes in data can make a big difference in rankings from one year to the next.
Therefore, you should ideally look at a university’s rankings over time, not just for the current year.
We also recommend that you look at single-topic rankings such as the National Student Survey or the Employability Rankings.
They only measure one thing, rather than bundle together different things.
This generally makes them more reliable.
Most of the common rankings and league tables are compounded out of a number of single-topic rankings.
Their outcomes depend on the way in which the compounding is done.
Many university league tables are compiled and published by newspapers.
When you look at them, you should remember that the first priority of a newspaper is to sell a story to the public.
Our position on university rankings and league tables recommends that you treat them all with caution .
If you wish to do some more research on the topic, here are some authoritative reports and articles.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/quality/rankings/uk:
Find out how Newcastle in ranked in UK university league tables.
Currently, Newcastle University is ranked:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/quality/rankings/world:
Newcastle University performs consistently well in university rankings, featuring in the top 200 of most world rankings.
This table shows our position in the global rankings.
They typically measure various metrics relating to students, staff, research and teaching.
Please note, the table refers to the year data was published.
The QS World University Rankings measures a range of student and staff metrics.
The Leiden Ranking focuses on research output and collaboration.
It measures:
(other statistics from Leiden are available on scientific impact, collaboration, open access publishing, and gender diversity).
The Times Higher World Rankings looks at a range of measures across teaching and research.
The Academic Ranking of World Universities focuses on a series of research measures.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/quality/rankings/single-topic:
Newcastle University is ranked in various league tables comparing UK universities on specific metrics, from student satisfaction to our environmental record.
To find out about what the single topic metrics are, and how they are measured select the topics below.
The Graduate Outcomes Survey collects information on what leavers from higher education programmes are doing 15 months after graduating (employed, engaged in further study and so on).
The Times Higher Education Impact Rankings are the only global performance tables that assess universities against the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
They calibrate indicators to provide comprehensive and balanced comparison across four broad areas: research, stewardship, outreach, and teaching.
The P&P University League is an annual independent league table of UK universities ranked by environmental and ethical performance.
BUCS provides an assessment of sporting provision and achievement.
Find out about the University's sports performance on the BUCS website .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/quality/rankings/ref:
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is another example of a single topic ranking.
REF is national exercise to evaluate research quality .
Submissions from each subject area are given a rank that informs the allocation of quality weighted research funding (QR) received from the funding council.
The most recent REF results were published in May 2022.
They rank quality and impact of our research.
Newcastle's results are shown in the table below:
Find out more about Newcastle's research excellence .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/strengths:
We’re working together to tackle some of the biggest challenges the world has ever known.
From unlocking the secrets of long-Covid, to advancing new treatments for cancer, we are changing lives.
We’re working to understand our past, probing the mysteries of space, and how galaxies evolve.
We’re also protecting our planet’s future - from developing more sustainable technologies, to driving the UK’s electric revolution.
Whether we’re predicting the intensity of tropical storms, exploring the impact of the arts on dementia, or working to preserve our global heritage during times of conflict, we’re making our world a better place.
Across our strengths in ageing and health, data, cities and place, one planet, culture and creative arts, we’re tackling global challenges.
Professor Quentin Anstee
Dean of Research and Innovation, FMS
We help people live healthier, happier, longer lives.
We help to build sustainable communities fit for the future.
We are challenging historical perspectives and enriching the future through arts and culture.
We are working to ensure that there is enough, for all, forever.
We unlock the power of data to discover solutions and drive innovation.
Professor Vijay Kunadian
Clinical Professor of Interventional Cardiology

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/strengths/ageing-health:
We're helping to create a world in which we all live better, for longer.
From understanding rare diseases to multi-morbidity and ageing, we are helping to improve health and wellbeing for all.
As people live longer and fertility rates decline, the proportion of older people in the population increases.
This demographic shift has implications for healthcare, social care, the economy, and society as a whole.
We're also becoming more aware of the diseases that can affect our quality of life in later years.
These diseases may be avoidable if we take better care of ourselves.
Health inequalities in society persist as a result of various factors.
These include socioeconomic status, race, and access to healthcare.
Disparities lead to differential health outcomes, limited healthcare access, and unequal distribution of resources.
This highlights the need for targeted interventions to address and reduce these inequalities.
We're helping to shape positive change in society across ageing and health, for the benefit of all.
We host the National Innovation Centre for Ageing.
It develops products and services which create a world in which we live better, for longer.
The centre is also home to its sister organisation VOICE®, a unique citizen engagement network.
Members share their lived experience to focus research and drive innovation.
Our NIHR Newcastle Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) partners with both Newcastle Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust and Cumbria, Northumberland, Tyne and Wear NHS Foundation Trust.
It is funded by the National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR).
Its research drives forward health improvements in ageing and multiple long-term conditions.
We have a long history of excellence in translational research.
We’re one of a few university and NHS partnerships to have been awarded NIHR BRC status in every funding round since 2007.
There are 20 BRCs across England.
The Newcastle Newcastle Biomedical Research Centre is the only centre dedicated to the study of ageing and multiple long-term conditions.
It converts lab-based research into benefits for patients, the public, and the health and care system.
We’re a lead partner in the Newcastle Health Research Partnership that was launch ed in 2020.
T he p artnership aims to address health inequalities, improve population health , and generate economic growth.
As a designated Academic Health Science Centre (AHSC), we do this by cultivating cross-partner collaboration in health and care research, innovation, education , and training.
This includes brokering new research and education activities , as well as facilitating streamlined joint-working arrangements.
Our School of Medicine is one of the largest integrated medical teaching and hospital complexes in the UK.
Our medical school covers the North East of England and Cumbria, including Clinical Learning centres across all NHS trusts.
The school generates high-quality research in clinical, medical, and medical sciences education.
Its research improves practice, deepens understanding and informs policy.
Newcastle University Medicine (NUMed) Malaysia delivers high-quality medical and biomedical education.
We are the first UK university to establish a fully owned international branch campus for medicine and biomedical sciences.
NUMed Malaysia’s research focusses on applied health, cancer, and medical education.
Through research and education, we help improve the health and wellbeing of older people.
Our Centre for Ageing and Inequalities investigates how biological, social, cultural, behavioural and environmental factors contribute to inequalities in later life.
Professor Steven Clifford
Chair of Molecular Paediatric Oncology & Director, Newcastle University Centre for Cancer
There are many achievements in ageing and health that we’re particularly proud of.
Some examples include:
Our work in ageing and health has led to the development of several spin out companies.
We are proud to create sustainable companies and high quality jobs in our region.
Spin outs include:
Explore all our spin out companies
Our University’s Education for Life strategy is vital.
It provides an engaging, challenging, and supportive environment for our students so they can fulfil their potential.
Ageing is a topic in our Medical and Biomedical curricula.
We also combine ageing research and teaching in our undergraduate module 'Language and Ageing' from our School of English Literature, Language and Linguistics .
The advanced module in sociolinguistics takes a multi-disciplinary approach and examines patterns of language variation and change in later life.
View our collection of innovative teaching case studies
We’re creating the world’s first health innovation neighbourhood to shape the future of health and ageing.
The Newcastle city-centre site will bring together research, business, government, and the community.
This ambitious £500m project will grow our leading research on ageing.
The neighbourhood will offer new and creative ideas for how we live, have fun, learn, and work.
Learn more about the Health Innovation Neighbourhood
Our Clinical Ageing Research Unit (CARU) is a £5.5m research facility funded by the Wellcome Trust and Wolfson Foundation.
Our main goal is to develop early assessment and intervention strategies for age-associated degenerative conditions.
CARU offers a patient-friendly setting for phase II-IV clinical studies in the older patient.
Our NU Centres of Research Excellence bring our research community together across disciplines, job families and career stages to respond to the world's challenges.
We have the following Centres that aim to develop new innovations that support healthy ageing:
We work with and partner with a range of Trusts, networks, organisations, and centres, including:
Interested in studying with us?
Search our environment and sustainability-related courses.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/strengths/cities-place:
We are developing innovative solutions to expand social and economic opportunities, for a better quality of life for all.
As our world’s population increases, our communities grow, develop, and change at pace.
This brings with it many challenges, from overcrowding and pressured infrastructures, to issues with resources and quality of living.
The need to preserve green and natural spaces for the benefit of both communities and our environment is key in a world which is using resource so intensively.
The rising cost of living is a challenge for many, impacting on lifestyles and life expectancies within communities.
Disparities between the better and the worse off continue to grow, bringing health and wellbeing issues as well as impacting on social and economic opportunities.
Maintenance of law and democracy continues to be a global issue.
There is considerable concern around integrity of politics as well as full blown conflict situations.
The economic and social legacies of the past create a challenge for our communities of the future.
We are helping to build sustainable communities and living environments, for the benefit of all.
Meet Lucy and Jenny who live on a Play Street.
Professor Alison Stenning’s research explores how streets and communities are transformed by playing out regularly.
This is at a time when the number of safe, public spaces where children and young people can play in their own neighbourhoods has declined rapidly.
Her research shows that an increase in the number of resident-led play streets can reduce loneliness and lead to greater community cohesion.
This is developing and changing relationships on and with the streets.
Watch Lucy and Jenny's film and discover their story.
Our University was originally founded to educate pioneers of the industrial revolution and address social challenges like public health.
This founding ethos remains ingrained in our institution today.
It influences both what we research and how we operate.
Embracing an interdisciplinary place-based approach, we collaborate with many partners to:
We build impactful partnerships across business, education, government and communities.
Our Engagement and Place Strategy focusses on improving the economy, health, social wellbeing and cultural richness of the places in which we operate.
Our engagement activities are wide ranging.
We work closely with businesses, voluntary groups and the creative sector.
We influence policy and are involved in public engagement in its many forms.
Our student placements are across sectors, and across regions, countries, and nations.
Professor Jane Robinson
Pro-Vice Chancellor, Engagement and Place
We work with partners to provide creative solutions to world-wide challenges.
We’re committed to driving solutions to current and future challenges through collaboration.
Our global partnerships deliver education, experiences and research that embrace a global outlook.
Proud of our regional roots, we are committed to making a positive impact in the North East of England.
Our work with regional partners includes place-based policy making and research, creative practice and public engagement, and supporting business growth and innovation.
Our high performance in global rankings highlights our dedication to sustainable development.
We are ranked 56th in the world out of over 1,750 institutions in the latest QS World University Rankings: Sustainability, with high scores across the categories of Environmental Impact, Social Impact, and Governance.
We are also ranked in the top 200 in the world out of 1,9632,318 institutions in the THE Impact rankings 2025.
We’re committed to social justice in all that we do.
We work locally, nationally and internationally with many different external organisations and groups, and across the University, to achieve social justice.
Discover how we’re working together to create a fairer and more just society.
Each year we create new high-tech, innovative companies.
We identify and spin out commercial and not-for-profit activities from our world class research.
The Farrell Centre is our public centre for architecture and cities in Newcastle.
Its mission is to widen the debate around the crucial roles that architecture and planning play in the contemporary world.
The centre opened in Spring 2023, and offers a variety of experiences for visitors of all ages with no admission fee.
Alongside temporary exhibitions, it contains three Urban Rooms exploring how architecture and planning have shaped the Newcastle and Tyneside of today and the roles they can play in reimagining it for tomorrow.
Learn more about the Farrell Centre and why we’ve created Urban Rooms for Newcastle .
Sir Terry Farrell
Leading UK Architect-Planner, Newcastle University Alumnus
We play a leading role in two of Newcastle’s biggest urban regeneration schemes.
Newcastle Helix is a state-of-the-art city centre innovation district.
Its focus is on data science, urban science, and life science.
It combines prestigious commercial and residential space with first-class research and education facilities.
We’re developing the world’s first Health Innovation Neighbourhood .
Working with partners, we’re expanding upon our world-leading ageing research to provide innovative solutions for living, leisure, learning, and employment.
It aims to provide an engaging, challenging and supportive environment for our students.
It helps them to discover and fulfil their potential.
Our cities research influences various modules at undergraduate and postgraduate levels.
Our Centre for Researching Cities helps students apply for funded PhD studies in cities-related topics.
We have an extensive programme of aspiration raising and support for students before, during and after their study with us.
We have a longstanding commitment to widening participation and equality of opportunity in our region and across the UK.
View our collection of Architecture, Planning and Landscape teaching case studies .
Our research infrastructure includes institutes, groups, centres and facilities that enable interdisciplinary collaboration.
Many of our Centres of Research Excellence, academies and National Innovation Centres underpin our Cities and Place work:
Our Urban Sciences Building is a living laboratory, bringing together cutting-edge research in computing, energy, water, digital urban sensing and infrastructure.
It is home to the Newcastle Urban Observatory , the largest set of publicly available real time urban data in the UK, Smart Grid laboratory and the National Green Infrastructure Facility .
We host a number of the state-of-the-art facilities that the Hub for Biotechnology in the Built Environment is organised around.
This includes a novel wet fabrication space that is one of the first in the world in this discipline.
Our Doctoral Training Centres are developing future research leaders to make change possible.
We help students apply for funded PhD studies in cities-related topics.
We work closely with:
At our Newcastle city-centre campus we undertake creative practice and public engagement through:
We work and partner with a range of organisations including:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/strengths/culture:
We are interrogating the past and learning for the future, nurturing arts and culture to positively challenge and change our world.
Arts and creative practice need to be positioned as opportunities for advancing knowledge and enriching experiences, through evidence-based research and pushing the boundaries of disciplines.
They can be catalysts for public debate, and powerful storytellers, bringing positive impact to people and places regionally, nationally and globally.
At Newcastle University w e produce work that pushes boundaries of disciplines and practices, providing evidence-based research and creative practice to address some of the major challenges facing society today.
By interrogating the past, we can understand the world around us, while also protecting cultural richness for future generations.
Global culture and creative arts hold immense potential to advance knowledge, enrich experiences, spark public discourse and tell impactful human- centred stories.
Prioritising the understanding and preservation of our global culture is paramount.
Meet Bob, resident of Sequoia Crest, California, USA.
His house burned down in the 2020 Castle Fire, which destroyed 174,000 acres of forest, including an estimated 14% of the world's giant sequoia population.
The disaster moved Professor Uta Kögelsberger to work on Fire Complex, a project intended to draw attention to the crisis in the forests in California, and make a difference to the future of forest management.
Combining photography and video, and also a vast community replanting effort, Fire Complex shows that real impact is made when artistic practice makes a difference for the future.
Our work in creative practice is world-renowned.
Our colleagues are at the forefront of practice in their fields of:
Our award winning writers, artists, cultural, and heritage professionals are creating research that pushes boundaries.
They tackle profound global and societal challenges from climate change, to issues of identity.
We are influencing the conditions through which our culture and creative sectors can thrive.
We focus on evidence-based research, informing policy from the hyper-local to the global.
We believe there is huge potential in the arts for creating space for possibility, risk and experimentation.
Our venues are key spaces where this happens.
Through our work with partners we are ensuring that our research positively benefits people and places across the globe.
We have a strong history of innovative interdisciplinary working across sectors.
Much of our work is co-produced with partners.
Our influence is regional, national, and international.
Our cultural partnerships connect our innovative work with the public.
We are the home of the Newcastle Centre for the Literary Arts .
Through this, we contribute to the cultural life of the North East via research, teaching, engagement projects and more.
We present and support the best contemporary writers through our NCLA events .
We discuss outstanding fiction and non-fiction, script and poetry as well as innovative forms of writing.
We curate and share a rich range of archival resources with audiences in Newcastle and beyond.
We are also the home of the Farrell Centre and the Special Collections and Archives .
We have strong working connections with local cultural venues such as the Great North Museum: Hancock and the Hatton Gallery.
Through our role as lead partner for the Creative Industries Policy and Evidence Centre, and our connections with the Northern Creative Corridor – we chart a course towards a richer future enhanced by culture and creative arts.
We co-host the Creative PEC with the Royal Society of Arts (RSA) through our innovative twin-hub model.
We’re using our combined expertise and shared vision to bring huge benefits to the UK creative sector.
We’re helping capitalise on the strengths of the creative economy in our region, by adding to the evidence base, addressing sector workforce needs, and fostering engagement through our cultural venues.
Our Newcastle upon Tyne campus and the North East of England provide great opportunities for culture and creative arts research and practice .
From World Heritage Site, Hadrian’s Wall, to captivating Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty, the region serves as a rich source of inspiration and study.
We partner with prominent urban and rural arts venues, as well as arts and heritage organisations.
An extensive international network of writers and poets, including participation in the Newcastle Poetry Festival, further enhances our creative community.
Our Newcastle city-centre campus provides galleries, museums, and award-winning collections and archives that benefit staff, students, partners, and the public.
Our LIVE in King’s Hall Concerts and INSIGHTS Public Lectures are free and open to everyone.
One of our regional partners, Northern Stage, is also based on our campus.
Our facilities include research institutes and centres dedicated to heritage and arts practice.
They are complemented by world-leading workspaces and on-site studios.
This integrated approach creates an ideal setting for innovative and impactful creative practice.
Our cultural venues support the cultural richness of Newcastle upon Tyne.
They are interdisciplinary research hubs and bridge the gap between our innovative work and the public.
The Great North Museum: Hancock is our museum of natural history, archaeology, geology, and world cultures with university research at its heart.
The Hatton Gallery stages a programme of modern and contemporary art exhibitions and events.
It is also a living lab for teaching, research, and contemporary programming.
The Gallery is complemented by art across our Newcastle campus .
The Farrell Centre is our newest cultural venue.
Its exhibitions, talks, tours and activities for all ages are inspired by architecture and urban design.
Our Special Collections and Archives curate and showcase a distinctive collection of books and archives for university staff, students, researchers and the wider community.
Our research centres and institutes are key enablers of our culture and creative arts research, including:
We also work with our three National Innovation Centres: Ageing , Data and Rural Enterprise .
We are home to TS Eliot and Forward p rize-winning poets, playwrights, and mult i- award winning authors .
Our artists include Turner Prize nominees .
Our musicians have BBC awards .
Our culture and creative arts programmes provide an excellent education experience.
We prepare the next generation of creative practitioners for diverse careers in our cultural and creative economy.
Students are able to contribute to a wide range of professions and society through education grounded in disciplines.
Our collaboration and work with partners provides distinctive educational experiences.
Students develop skills through:
Examples include:
View our collection of innovative teaching case studies in:
Everyone should have the opportunity to experience creativity and embark on creative careers.
We collaborate with schools and partners through initiatives such as music hubs.
We also support graduates and emerging creative and cultural professionals through initiatives such as the NewBridge Project .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/strengths/one-planet:
We are working towards a better and fairer world, addressing challenges and creating a more sustainable future, protecting our planet for the benefit of all.
As populations increase and industry multiplies, our planet is facing some of the biggest challenges it has ever known.
The devastating impact of climate change is wreaking havoc on natural habitats and global ecosystems, endangering both plant and animal life.
Beyond this, it is also creating a world in which we, as a society, need to be able to anticipate future change.
We need to prepare for, and respond to hazardous events and disturbances on a vast scale.
Whilst land and water pollution increase and air quality decreases, the exponential growth of energy requirements puts natural resources under extreme pressure.
It’s more important than ever to develop sustainable energy systems for the future.
We are supporting the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals – seeking peace and prosperity for all people and the planet now and in the future.
We’re working to ensure that there is enough, for everyone, forever.
Meet Emma, a sixth form student who’s incredibly passionate about science and outer space.
With the support of Katherine, her QTVI (Qualified Teacher of Vision Impairment), and through the work of our researchers, led by Dr Chris Harrison and supported by partners at Portsmouth University, Emma has been able to experience the universe through sound.
The Audio Universe project explores new methods to represent data.
It focuses on making the experience of learning about space, and making new scientific discoveries, accessible to all.
Watch the film to discover the story.
Professor Stephanie Glendinning
Pro-Vice-Chancellor, Faculty of Science, Agriculture and Engineering
We are committed to embedding social and environmental justice throughout our activity.
We rank in the top 200 in the world for sustainable development in the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2025 .
We are ranked 56th in the world and 19th in the UK in the QS World University Rankings: Sustainability 2025 , with high scores across the categories of Environmental Impact, Social Impact, and Governance.
The UN Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs) are embedded into every aspect of our University .
They shape our estate operations and our approaches to teaching, research and innovation.
Our sustainability team leads on embedding sustainability throughout campus activity .
Our Global Challenges Academy advances research and partnerships to address the UNSDGs.
We are ranked 56th in the world and 19th in the UK in the QS World University Rankings: Sustainability 2025, with high scores across the categories of Environmental Impact, Social Impact, and Governance.
We impact policies, industries, communities and regions to discover and encourage sustainable practices.
Our pioneering work includes:
There are many achievements we’re particularly proud of as we work to address challenges to create a more sustainable future.
The One Planet agenda plays a part in several undergraduate and postgraduate programmes including:
Our Executive Education programmes include a learning and reflection framework for the UN Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs).
Our Global Challenges Academy runs a programme where students can intern and contribute to the Uuniversity's initiatives supporting the UNSDGs.
Hear from a previous intern about their experience .
View our collection of innovative UNSDGs teaching case studies
Newcastle University in Singapore shapes the future of science and engineering through powerful connections and innovative research.
Graduates are globally aware problem-solvers, ready to define the future of industry and government.
Postgraduate research  students are immersed in a hub for research, collaboration and innovation as part of Newcastle Research and Innovation Institute (NewRIIS).
Learn more about Newcastle University in Singapore
Discover how our Singapore campus is tackling climate change with AI
Our research infrastructure includes institutes, groups, centres and facilities that enable interdisciplinary collaboration for the benefit of our planet.
We lead two of 12 UKRI GCRF Global Interdisciplinary Research Hubs.
We are the only university to lead more than one research hub.
Our hubs work with more than 100 partners globally, spanning countries including India, Malaysia, and Brazil.
We also host the world’s first Hub for Biotechnology in the Built Environment .
It brings together architects, designers and engineers from Newcastle University with bio-scientists from Northumbria University.
A number of our Centres for Research Excellence form the foundations of our work in One Planet:
Our research centres and institutes working in One Planet also include:
Centres and researchers tackling some of societies biggest sustainability challenges include:
ONE Planet : a cohort-based, doctoral training partnership across Newcastle and Northumbria Universities.
This is to design sustainable transdisciplinary responses needed to address intensifying global change.
Geospatial Systems : developing the world’s next generation of engineers, scientists and practitioners.
They're trained in geospatial data, analytics, modelling and visualisation.
IAPETUS2 : a multidisciplinary training partnership tackling challenges facing earth and the environment.
Sustainable Electrical Propulsion : developing a new generation of UK power electronics specialists to meet societal and industry demand.
We are also partners in the following centres:
Our facilities contribute to cutting-edge research in both industrial and academic settings.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/strengths/data:
We are helping to manage, analyse, and understand the potential of data to unlock innovation, drive experimentation, and find solutions for the benefit of all.
The amount of data available is growing at an exponential rate, and there is huge opportunity in this information that surrounds us.
However, as a society we are not yet confident in the best ways to use it safely and effectively.
Scepticism and mistrust around data is widespread, especially when considering the inherent risks around data if not used responsibly.
Concerns around the risk of compromised identities and excess behavioural tracking lead to low social acceptance.
Where there is acceptance, individuals are becoming increasingly aware of the value of our own data.
Exploring the importance of using data for public good is key.
Artificial intelligence is also dramatically changing the information landscape.
As the need for knowledge and greater understanding increases, guidelines for ethical and responsible usage of data are more crucial than ever.
Access to the benefits surrounding data is inconsistent across communities.
There is a need to enable fairer access, to ensure equality of opportunities.
We’re unlocking the power of data to discover solutions and drive innovation.
We are home to a large community of academics, researchers, students, and partners working in data.
There is great strength and depth to our work in data across our University including:
We use data to transform research across the University, train future data science leaders, and share data expertise for societal, economic, and academic advancement.
We are also part of the Turing University Network.
The Alan Turing Network is the UK’s national institute for data science and artificial intelligence.
We host the National Innovation Centre for Data.
It helps organisations gain new skills and innovate through data.
The centre works to support businesses and organisations in harnessing the power of their data and becoming more productive, through:
The Catalyst building is home to a vibrant community of businesses and research specialists.
It facilitates connections between innovators, businesses, and academia.
Professor Paul Watson
Director of the National Innovation Centre for Data
Our Education for Life strategy aims to provide an outstanding educational experience.
We bring data research and teaching together through a number of courses and initiatives.
Courses include:
We partner with the National Innovation Centre for Data to run an annual Data Insights Bootcamp for current students .
The bootcamp offers experiential learning to students.
It provides the opportunity to work on real-world data problems with industry partners.
View our collection of teaching case studies from computing and mathematics, statistics and physics .
Our research infrastructure includes institutes, centres, schools, and facilities that unlock the potential of data.
They include:
The Newcastle Helix site brings together academia, the public sector, communities, and business.
It is a global centre for urban innovation in the heart of Newcastle upon Tyne.
The site hosts:
We are members and partners in a wide range of data-related networks such as:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/people:
At Newcastle University, our people are at the core of our success.
Our impact and functions are supported by over 6,000 staff members across our four campuses.
Our team includes academic and professional staff working together across a variety of disciplines.
We also have staff members working in a number of services and facilities including computing (NUIT), libraries, accommodation, estates, careers, and sport.
Use our people search below to find a particular member of staff, or see staff lists on individual School and Faculty websites.
Links to staff lists on our other campus websites can also be found below.
Find out more about our research, teaching and professional staff at the Malaysia campus
Find out more about our research, teaching and professional staff at NUMed Malaysia
Professor Phil Blythe Professor Paul Braiden Professor Steve Bull Professor Richard Dawson Professor Jarka Glassey Emeritus Professor Gareth Johnson Professor Barrie Mecrow Professor Ian Metcalfe Emeritus Professor Patrick O'Connell Emeritus Professor Trevor Page Professor Ian Postlethwaite Professor Paul Watson Professor Alex Yakovlev
Professor Chris Day Professor David Brooks Professor David Burn Professor Sir John Burn Professor Martin Embley Professor Harry Gilbert Professor Timothy Griffiths Professor Christine Harrison Professor Derek Mann Professor Ruth Plummer Professor Sir Doug Turnbull Professor Brian Walker Professor Michael Whitaker Emeritus Professor Peter Baylis Emeritus Professor Sir Alan Craft Emeritus Professor Martin Eccles Emeritus Professor Oliver James Emeritus Professor Thomas Kirkwood Emeritus Professor Herbie Newell Emeritus Professor Elaine Perry Emeritus Professor Tom Strachan Emeritus Professor Stephen Yeaman
Professor Clare Bambra FAcSS Newcastle University Professor Roger Burrows FAcSS Newcastle University
Professor Elaine Campbell FAcSS: Newcastle University Emeritus Professor of Criminology Emeritus Professor Tony Champion FAcSS Newcastle University Professor Richard Collier FAcSS Newcastle University Professor Simin Davoudi FAcSS Newcastle University
Professor Cathrine Degnen FAcSS: Newcastle University Professor of Social and Cultural Anthropology
Professor Pauline Dixon FAcSS: Newcastle University Professor of International Development and Education Professor Andrew Gillespie FAcSS Newcastle University
Professor Rose Gilroy FAcSS: Newcastle University Professor of Ageing, Policy & Planning Emeritus Professor John Goddard OBE FAcSS Newcastle University Emeritus Professor Erica Haimes OBE FAcSS Newcastle University
Professor Robert Hollands FAcSS Newcastle University Professor Peter Hopkins FAcSS Newcastle University Professor Alexandra Hughes FAcSS Newcastle University
Professor Danny MacKinnon FAcSS: Newcastle University Professor of Regional Development and Governance Professor William Maloney FAcSS Newcastle University Professor Fiona Matthews FAcSS Newcastle University Professor Natasha Mauthner FAcSS Newcastle University Professor Sharon Mavin FAcSS Newcastle University Professor Janice McLaughlin FAcSS Newcastle University
Professor Ruth McAreavey FAcSS: Newcastle University Professor of Sociology Emeritus Professor William Outhwaite FAcSS Newcastle University Professor Rachel Pain FAcSS Newcastle University Professor Geoff Payne FAcSS Newcastle University Professor John Pendlebury FAcSS Newcastle University Professor Andy Pike FAcSS Newcastle University Professor Jane Pollard FAcSS Newcastle University Professor Diane Richardson FAcSS Newcastle University Professor Christopher P Rodgers FAcSS Newcastle University Professor Thomas Scharf FAcSS Newcastle University Professor Sue J Scott FAcSS Newcastle University
Professor Sally Shortall FAcSS: Newcastle University Duke of Northumberland Chair of Rural Economy Professor Mark Shucksmith OBE FAcSS Newcastle University Professor Falko Sniehotta FAcSS Newcastle University Professor Liz Todd FAcSS Newcastle University
Professor Jeff Errington , Faculty of Medical Sciences Professor Harry Gilbert, Faculty of Medical Sciences Professor Tracy Palmer ,  Faculty of Medical Sciences Professor Andrew Soward Maths
Dame Professor Vikki Bruce
Professor Stephen Graham
Emeritus Professor Anders Holmberg Emeritus Professor of Music Richard Middleton
Professor Jennifer Richards
Professor Martin Embley Professor Jeff Errington Professor Tracy Palmer

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/engagement:
Improving the economy, health, social wellbeing and cultural richness of the places in which we operate.
Engagement describes how the activity and benefits of our teaching and research can be shared, enriched and enhanced through partnerships working beyond the University.
It is a multi-directional process with the aim of delivering mutual benefit for both the University and our external partners.
These exchanges can take many forms, involving our staff, students and alumni.
They need a long term view.
In much of our research, we work closely with businesses, voluntary groups and the creative sector.
We influence policy.
Our student placements are across sectors, and across regions, countries and nations.
We're involved in public engagement in its many forms.
In line with our institutional aspirational values, our engagement activities will:
At Newcastle University, we see the contribution we can make economically, socially and culturally as core to our purpose.
We want to work with our staff, students and partners to maximise the positive impact we can achieve locally and globally.
for economic benefit.
We work closely with regional industry.
We collaborate with them on research and development and business innovation.
We address current skill shortages in their workforce and their need for appropriately trained graduates.
for societal benefit.
We aim to be an effective partner for local government, the NHS, the voluntary, community and social enterprise sector and the public.
from local to global .
We use our global reach to improve the international connectivity of our region.
for cultural benefit.
Our expertise in creative arts practice, culture and heritage contributes to the vibrancy and cultural richness of our region.
with policy and practice .
Our academic and professional staff have the skills to address policy challenges.
These challenges face all governments at a local, national and international level.
for access and participation .
We work to improve the social mobility of people from underrepresented and disadvantaged backgrounds.
We do this by ensuring our education and research is as widely accessible as possible.
If you're interested in finding out more about engagement activities at Newcastle University or in collaborating with us, contact:
Andrea Henderson Head of Engagement Telephone: +44 (0)191 208 8312 Email: engage@ncl.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/discover-fest:
What an event!
See you next year at our family friendly festival.
Thanks to you, our incredible community, the Discover Festival was a resounding success.
With vibrant performances, delicious food, hands-on interactive workshops and the spirit of connection, families came together to make unforgettable memories.
We hope to host an even bigger and better festival 2026 and very much hope you will be able to join us.
Bookmark this page to be the first to know.
Discover Festival is a free, one day festival of interactive family-fun in the heart of the North East.
It’s all about bringing ideas and people together; making the impossible feel possible.
It's a day of building connections, sparking ideas, and leaving you with a sense of wonder.
Each year, we plan a day filled with activities and events to inspire all ages.
Want to get involved?

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/social-justice:
At Newcastle, our aspiration is to contribute to social justice in everything that we do.
We are committed to working together with our external partners to achieve a fair and just society.
Social and environmental justice is one of Newcastle University’s core values.
We are committed to working towards a fair society through our education, our research, and the way we run the University.
We work with a large network of external organisations, reflecting our reputation as one of the UK’s first and leading civic Universities.
The North East of England has a long history of social justice campaigning and the University has been part of this tradition, including:
Our commitment to social justice makes us stand out in the higher education sector.
Our Dean of Social Justice, Professor Rachel Pain, leads on this work with support from our Engagement team.
Check out our new resources for co-production between University and external partners.
Stay up to date with upcoming social justice news, events and opportunities
Newcastle’s social justice work is directed by our Social Justice Advisory Group (SJAG).
The group includes representatives from the Voluntary, Community and Social Enterprise (VCSE) sector.
It is co-chaired by Michele Deans (Operations Director, Children North East) and Rachel Pain (University Dean of Social Justice).
In the words of David Smith, social justice is “who gets what, where, when and how?” It centres on the distribution of society’s benefits and burdens, and the ways social processes can produce fairer outcomes.
Social inequalities are harmful and this underpins our understanding and practice of social justice.
Our focus includes research, education, and the way we run our organisations.
We are action-oriented, aiming to:
Our communities and place give purpose and shape to our social and environmental justice work, and vice versa.
This work goes beyond our immediate region, including local and international initiatives.
We draw on the knowledge and expertise that exists outside and inside Universities.
We're committed to working in partnership for more democratic, fair and effective outcomes.
Together, we seek to maximise our collective voice and leverage power.
By engaging with partners and stakeholders and by producing knowledge and action, we can have a greater impact on the urgent social and environmental problems facing the planet.
Achieving social justice remains a work in progress.
We're committed to dialogue, honesty, and willingness to identify when we go wrong and how we can do better.
We work locally, nationally and internationally with external partners, growing the ‘infrastructure’ needed for sustainable relationships.
See examples of research from across our three Faculties that contributes to social justice.
Find out how we support collaborations between the University and VCSE partners.
Meet the group who steer the University’s work on social justice issues.
See how our central services, admissions processes and key collaborations are affecting change.
Through our taught curriculum, our students have opportunities to work on social justice issues.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/engagement/awards:
Our Engagement and Place Awards recognise and celebrate great examples of collaboration with different publics.
They showcase how the benefits of our research and teaching go beyond the University.
We honour projects displaying the diverse ways University colleagues and students work with external partners and communities.
The awards recognise many innovative collaborations between the University and its external partners.
These bring value to the social, cultural and economic wellbeing in our city, region and across the globe.
We're delighted to announce our award winners and shortlisted projects for the Engagement Engagement and Place Awards 2025 below.
The Engaging for Health & Wellbeing Award is for colleagues wanting engage to create a world in which we all live healthier, happier and longer lives.
This engagement work explores evidence of multiple complex challenges surrounding Parkinson’s in Tanzania, in collaboration with ongoing research through the TraPCAf project.
This storybook and read-along video helps to start important conversations with young children about how alcohol and drugs can affect their feelings and lives.
Newcastle University’s Dietetics team and partners offer placements for dietetics students.
This gives students valuable hands-on experience, while offering free, evidence-based nutrition support to underserved communities.
This category celebrates colleagues who engage with entrepreneurs, businesses and not-for-profit organisations.
The aim is to generate economic benefit for the University and its partners through innovation and knowledge exchange.
This Newcastle University project has delivered economic benefit to Northumbrian Water.
It has identified ways to improve operational strategies to keep costs low for customers.
This project focused on 109 different Live Clients who have benefited from working with our students.
This created new learning, collaborative engagement and economic benefit.
This funded internship programme connects talented students with small local businesses.
The scheme was led by the Business Partnership Team, Graduate Outcomes Team and Business School Career Consultants.
This category celebrates projects adding value in our society to tackle global environmental challenges.
This project examines the impact of the climate crisis on indigenous cultural heritage through short films created by vulnerable communities in South and Southeast Asia.
This project is revolutionising farming through cutting-edge wireless sensor technology.
It enables farmers to optimise soil health, measure methane emissions and enhance sustainability.
Ongoing engagement and meaningful collaborations with Friends of Fenham Pocket Park transformed an unused urban space into a lively space where people and nature thrive.
This category describes projects contributing to the vibrancy and cultural richness of our region.
This project has documented and celebrated 100s of years of astronomical innovation and technological development in the North East of England.
An eight-month project exploring how Newcastle was transformed in the 1960s and 1970s and how we might reimagine the city of today.
In the wake of far-right riots in the UK, this exhibition at BALTIC Centre for Contemporary Art asked how art can facilitate welcome.
This category recognises projects that inform policy through research, teaching and knowledge exchange.
They will explore challenges created by contemporary societal, economic, environmental and cultural issues.
The Beaver App was developed through collaboration with other academics and environment agencies to support policy implementation.
A research project to understand citizen perceptions of Fiji Prime Minister’s policy concept of the Pacific as 'an ocean of peace'.
This research has influenced the initiation, design, and evaluation of mini-publics.
They make important contributions to political debate, policy, and scrutiny in Scotland.
This category celebrates collaborative projects with external partners that enrich the learning experience and knowledge of our students and learners.
This project undertook research to show that including the critical/analytical study of language in teaching enriches the learning experience.
In collaboration with the National Innovation Centre for Ageing, this project empowers students to address real-world challenges through immersive, hands-on learning.
An innovative public engagement project that transforms complex postgraduate research into visually striking artwork.
This category recognises the varied engagement practice undertaken by researchers in the early stages of their research careers, either doctoral students or early career researchers.
The Belonging in Engineering Network supports Black and other Global Majority students by fostering a sense of belonging and facilitating peer networking.
This panel of around 20 carers sets aims for our future research and to learn from their personal experiences of being a carer.
This project uses forum theatre to help improve communication between patients and GPs, building on research into head and neck cancer diagnosis.
This award celebrates the work of a colleague or team that demonstrates outstanding, sustained engagement practice.
The Vice-Chancellor chooses the winning project as an exemplar and embodiment of our Engagement and Place strategy.
This project has helped more than 150 SMEs in the North East by connecting them with the right expertise and facilities.
It has helped to create 143 new jobs, developed 53 new products and services and increased business turnover by £16.9m.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/academic:
Newcastle University delivers research and teaching through three academic faculties.
Our three faculties are: Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences, Faculty of Medical Sciences and Faculty of Science, Agriculture and Engineering.
The faculties organise and carry out research and teaching throughout the University.
They are made up of academic schools, research institutes and research centres.
Find out more about the HASS Faculty and its associated schools and research units.
Find out more about the SAGE Faculty and its associated schools and research units.
Find out more about the Faculty of Medical Sciences and its associated schools and research units.
Find out about the academic schools and research institutes within the three faculties.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/sage:
Proud of our heritage.
Creating a sustainable future.
Always making a difference.
The Faculty of Science, Agriculture & Engineering (SAgE) is one of the largest science and engineering faculties in the UK .
We have over 8,000 students, 1,200 staff and an annual turnover of £150 million.
Our Faculty has a world-class reputation, steeped in history dating back to 1871.
Today, we offer a mix of teaching, research excellence and industry partnerships.
We’re educating the next generation of experts .
And we’re proud to be a hub of cutting-edge research, helping make a difference in the world.
Thanks to our industry partners, we have a number of funded PhD opportunities available across our Schools.
Our Business, Innovation and Skills Team work with organisations across the public, private and third sectors to innovate , solve societal challenges and upskill the future workforce .
We value individuality and the diversity it brings to our working and learning environments.
Discover the support and wellbeing services available within the University and our Faculty.
We have a rich and vibrant history spanning over 150 years.
Here’s a snapshot of some of our milestones and achievements.
Sorry, you need JavaScript to view this video
Professor Stephanie Glendinning, Pro-Vice-Chancellor Faculty of Science, Agriculture & Engineering

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/hass:
Excellence in research and teaching, in the creative arts, humanities and social sciences.
The Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences has a global reputation as a centre for research, education and engagement across the creative arts, humanities, and social sciences.
We are home to an exceptionally broad range of disciplines.
These sit across our 10 academic schools, research institutes and centres.
Through our thinking, making, research and education practice, we seek to address social and global challenges.
As a values-based community of colleagues and students, we promote a supportive and inclusive culture.
This is based on shared values of trust, integrity, diversity, academic freedom and social and environmental justice.
World-class teaching across the arts, humanities and social sciences, for undergraduate and postgraduates students from around the world.
Research is at the heart of what we do.
It informs all levels of teaching and helps us make a positive impact on a global society.
We co-create projects with partners from a range of backgrounds and industries, for the benefit of local, national and global societies.
Our people are fundamental to the work we do.
We are proud to support colleagues and work together to achieve our vision.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/medical-sciences:
World-leading researchers teaching the medical scientists of tomorrow.
We are the Faculty of Medical Sciences (FMS).
We’re one of the UK’s largest and most successful centres for research-led medical education, with a world-class reputation.
Our long and proud history has provided a strong foundation for us to grow and innovate.
Through this, we revolutionise healthcare, health research and teaching.
We educate for life.
We nurture the next generation of practitioners, clinicians, scientists and educationalists.
We provide a catalyst for enquiring minds and future world-changing students.
Research is at the very heart of what we do and how we educate students.
We’re at the forefront of medical science.
Our scientific developments have made major advances in clinical practice and patient healthcare across the globe.
We are a thriving community in FMS.
Over 1 8 00 leading scientists, academics, technicians and professional staff help to support over 8 000 students.
We deliver a wide range of subjects for aspiring clinicians and health professionals.
We partner with NHS teaching hospitals, including the Royal Victoria Infirmary and Freeman.
Our international campus, Newcastle University Medicine Malaysia (NUMed) in Johor opened in 2011.
It provides identical programmes of study to the UK-based provision.
These then lead to the same degrees, conferred by Newcastle University.
Newcastle is one of the oldest medical schools in the country.
We’ve been educating doctors and scientists here since 1834, and dentists for over 125 years.
Find out more about news from across the Faculty.
Our Faculty encourages collaborative working between scientists and clinicians.
Our Clinical Academic Office supports clinicians and healthcare professionals to grow their research career.
We work with businesses on mutual development, consultancy, knowledge transfer, facilities and equipment, commercialisation and much more.
The Faculty offers help to businesses at all stages of development.
We communicate our research to groups outside the University including schools, charities and voluntary organisations.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/global:
Newcastle University has a strong global community.
We work together ethically with our partners to deliver education, experiences and research that positively impact the world in which we live.
At Newcastle University, we embrace our role as a global institution, reflecting on our place in the world: past, present, and future.
We foster openness and a sense of care, guided by our core values:
Our university serves as a hub for global engagement through teaching, learning, research, our campuses and the student experience.
We support our students’ global mobility and employability .
We also provide opportunities to be part of the international workforce.
Being a global university means we think, feel, and act globally.
We recognize and nurture our connections to global communities, places, and institutions.
By working ethically in partnerships we achieve more together than we could alone.
Our global strategy further outlines our ambitions and commitments in this area.
Our partners are as diverse as we are.
They share our vision for creating a more equal, just and sustainable future.
We have campuses in Singapore and Malaysia, providing world-class education in an international environment.
Our Centres of Research Excellence are a focal point for university-wide activity that has an impact across the world.
We work with our partners to make a positive difference to the world .
Together we deliver education, experiences and research that involve our entire learning community.
Our collaborative work includes the International Coalition of Sites of Conscious (ICSC) and our collective efforts to promote social justice and a universal culture of human rights.
We’re proud to support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, seeking peace and prosperity for all people and the planet by 2030.
Get international insights and gain a global perspective at a range of networking events.
Award-winning independent language learning at Newcastle University.
Our 250,000+ alumni are creating outstanding impact around the world.
Bringing you the people and global stories behind our research.
Listen and subscribe.
Our 29,000-strong student community includes people from 145 countries.
Each year, we warmly welcome thousands of new students from across the globe.
They are drawn by our:
International students bring diverse perspectives to our lecture halls, labs, and the wider community.
They enrich the cultural and intellectual life of both the university and the city.
This global exchange of ideas and experiences enhances the educational environment on campus, preparing students to thrive in an interconnected world.
We are committed to attracting and supporting the best students from across the world to pursue their undergraduate and postgraduate degrees with us.
Gain an international perspective, make cultural connections and enhance your skills and CV by undertaking a global experience as part of your degree.
There are lots of great initiatives and stories taking place across our network.
Explore research and innovation at Newcastle University through the lens of our From blog.
Read the latest stories, gain valuable insights, and access expert commentary from our global community.
Find out about our work, discuss a potential partnership or contact a member of the international relations team for more information.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/global/central-and-south-asia:
Newcastle University is committed to peer-to-peer partnerships between Central and South Asia and the UK.
Our collaborations foster a dynamic exchange of knowledge, ideas and innovation.
We are helping to foster the next generation of globally-minded citizens.
We have long-standing partnerships between academic institutions as well as new collaborations with emerging entrepreneurs.
We’re also proud to welcome more than 500 students from Central and South Asia.
They contribute to our academic excellence and global university community.
We are the only university leading two, multi-million pound flagship UKRI Global Challenges Research Funds.
Newcastle University is leading a research team of 120 members, including 20 academic institutions for the Living Deltas Research Hub.
The team will examine and confront significant challenges facing four social-ecological delta systems in:
By approaching these challenges in a transdisciplinary way, researchers are promoting UN Sustainable Development Goals and transforming policy and practice.
For more information, visit our Global Challenges Academy .
Newcastle University also leads the UKRI GCRF Water Security and Sustainable Development Hub.
Together with a wide range of UK and international universities, we are addressing the challenge of water security for all.
The Water Security and Sustainable Development Hub is bringing together leading global experts from:
As part of this work, we're helping to mitigate the impacts of climate change, such as drought and flooding.
We are also developing new solutions for water management and treatment of wastewater.
The hub is also creating a global network of local water collaborations using a transdisciplinary co-production approach.
Newcastle University and IIT Delhi have a long-standing partnership that includes:
Find out more about our partnership with IIT Delhi
Newcastle University Business School is working alongside the Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad.
This is to develop collaborative research in the areas of entrepreneurship and innovation.
Students focus on projects through a global internship programme.
They work with both IIM-Ahmedabad students and India’s Self-Employed Women’s Association.
Find out more about our partnership with IIM-Ahmedabad
NEESAMA was developed between partners from across North East England and six South Asian countries including Bangladesh, Iran and Nepal in 2018.
It focuses on improving research, education and clinical service delivery within mental health services.
NEESAMA fosters partnerships between policy makers, researchers and clinicians from across South Asia and North East England.
NEESAMA aims to address key priorities within the World Health Organisation’s mental health action plan, including:
NEESAMA is jointly funded by:
Find out more about NEESAMA
The British Council’s Creative Spark Higher Education Enterprise Programme is a five-year initiative to:
Through the programme, Newcastle University has partnered with Azerbaijan’s Center for Analysis of Economic Reforms and Communication (CAERC) to enhance the quality of entrepreneurial education by:
Find out more about the Creative Spark project
GloVitAS is a $2.3M multi-disciplinary, collaborative project.
It involves 10 international partners, led by Newcastle University and funded by:
The aim of the project is to determine whether:
The results of this project will aid the monitoring of vitamin A intervention programmes to optimize their efficacy.
Find out more about the GloVitAS project
Together with the British Council we offer fully funded scholarships for female students from South Asia .
They must be interested in pursuing a master's degree related to climate change or in the STEM fields.
If you are an international student from Central or South Asia, visit out International Students website .
You’ll find information about entry requirements, scholarships and more for your country.
We have a strategic partnership with the International Coalition of Sites of Conscience (ICSC).
We've placed student interns at several ICSC member sites, including the Institute for Development of Freedom of Information in Georgia.
Students actively promote social justice and a universal culture of human rights.
They work to:
We offer opportunities to travel to Central and South Asia and other global destinations through:
Visit our Global Opportunities website .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/global/east-asia:
Heritage, health, climate change: Newcastle University’s collaborations with East Asian partners are a crucial element of our global engagement.
We work with our East Asian partners, colleagues and students to undertake:
We are also proud to welcome over 2,500 students from countries in East Asia.
Newcastle University is a proud member of RENKEI .
RENKEI is a partnership between 12 universities in Japan and the UK, aiming to further knowledge exchange and research collaboration.
Since 2018, RENKEI has prioritised research and collaborations on climate change and health.
This led to workshops focussing on:
Researchers at Newcastle University are working with the National Engineering Research Centre for Information Technology in Agriculture (NERCITA).
They are co-developing new methods of:
Project partners will work closely with agricultural service providers in China.
They will ensure such tools benefit Chinese farmers and the agricultural industry globally.
Find out more about Drought Resilience in Ecosystem Services and Rural Communities in China .
In partnership with the University of Tokyo, Newcastle University’s Centre for Rural Economy is developing a new research agenda.
This will look at the role of the contemporary arts in rural development policy and theory.
Find out more about rural arts
The Confucius Institute is a partnership between Newcastle University and Xiamen University of China.
It aims to promote the study of Chinese language and the understanding of Chinese culture and contemporary China.
The institute also develops educational and cultural exchanges with China within the North East of England.
Find out more about the The Confucius Institute
Upstream is a research project aiming to improve water quality.
The project works with local communities to raise awareness and collect water data.
In partnership with National Taiwan University, it is taking place at pilot sites in the UK and Taiwan.
Upstream uses low-cost water quality sensors to better understand the water environment and instigate change.
Find out more about Upstream
Newcastle University is one of four leading HE institutions in the UK to receive this invitation-only membership awarded by the Japan Foundation.
The Japanese studies of the School of Modern Languages has been involved in activities to enhance Japanese language education in the North of England.
Find out more about the Sakura Network
If you are an international student from East Asia, visit our International Students website .
Newcastle University provides a wide array of opportunities to study in East Asia.
We have programmes at institutions such as Seoul National University in South Korea and University of Hong Kong.
Newcastle University students have explored the region through a variety of other experiences such as:
We offer opportunities to travel to East Asia and other global destinations through:
Visit our Global Opportunities website.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/global/europe:
Newcastle University is proud of its continuing identity as a European institution.
There are over 1,600 collaborating institutions across the continent and since 2019, over 8,600 co-authored publications.
With a network of over 170 partner universities, we offer a wide variety of student exchange and mobility opportunities in Europe.
For instance, our language programmes allow students to immerse themselves in a different culture whilst developing fluency in a foreign language.
We are also proud to welcome more than 1,300 students from Europe.
NCL Europe is a new hub at Newcastle University.
It celebrates and advances the University’s work on, in, and with Europe.
As a focal point for European activity, NCL Europe organises public events and networking opportunities in the areas of:
The hub also facilitates joint research and mobility schemes.
Find out more about NCL Europe
Newcastle and NUWEE have been ‘twinned’ through the UUKi/Cormack scheme .
This was based on several areas of academic synergy, especially in the fields of:
Both institutions signed a five-year MoU in June 2022.
It will support long-term research and educational collaboration, including:
Find out more about our partnership in Ukraine
Building upon a long-standing partnership, Newcastle University and BSR signed a MoU in 2022.
They will develop new collaborative projects that build research capacity, promote knowledge exchange and expand academic networks in the fields of:
As part of this new partnership, both institutions will launch two joint fellowship programmes focused on PGR students and staff.
This will also include unaffiliated scholars and non-academics from the heritage, gallery, library, archive, museum and architecture sectors.
Find out more about BSR
With our strong research expertise and Centre for Rare Diseases, we launched three of the 24 European Reference Networks (ERNs) in the field of rare diseases, including:
This was in partnership with Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
These ERNs reduce inequalities for patients by bringing together healthcare professionals, patients and policy makers to:
Find out more about European Reference Networks on rare diseases
As part of the C-MobiLE project, Newcastle's School of Engineering collaborate with over 30 European partners.
The project propelled existing and new pilot sites towards large-scale, real-life cooperative intelligent transport systems.
It made European road networks safer, more efficient and more sustainable.
Pilot sites for the project included a total of eight cities and regions, including:
Find out more about C-MobiLE
Beyond 'Left Behind Places' is a project developing a new understanding of demographic and socio-economic change in peripheral regions of:
It is a comparative, cross-national project that involves 16 academic researchers and a range of non-academic partners.
It examines the circumstances and prospects of places and people currently categorised as ‘left behind’.
Find out more about Beyond ‘Left Behind Places’
We're pleased to offer automatic scholarships worth 30-50% of the international tuition fee for EU students looking to study in 2023.
In addition we offer 30 partial Vice-Chancellor’s Excellence Scholarships.
They'll assist EU students to study an undergraduate degree or postgraduate Master’s degree.
Find out more about Scholarships for EU students in the UK.
If you are an international student from Europe, visit our International Students website .
You’ll find more information about entry requirements, scholarships and more for your country.
Newcastle has a network of over 170 partner universities across Europe where you can study as part of your degree.
Each of our partners are linked to a particular subject area.
The partner you choose to study with will depend on what you are studying.
We offer a wide range of programmes as diverse as our student body, including:
Newcastle offers several short-term study abroad programmes.
There are also opportunities for field trips and expeditions abroad.
We offer opportunities to travel to Europe and other global destinations through:
Learn more about previous students embarking on a three-week expedition to study climate change in Svalbard, Norway.
We’ve placed student interns at several ICSC member sites, including the War Childhood Museum in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Visit our Global Opportunities website

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/global/latin-america:
Newcastle University’s engagement in Latin America spans a range of academic disciplines.
Our researchers work with Latin American universities, governments, organisations and communities.
We work on projects that help to make a difference and tackle global challenges.
Our research into the region looks at:
We are also proud to welcome students from countries in Latin America.
Together with local partners, Newcastle University is helping to develop sustainable community projects centred on food security.
They emphasise social franchising, cooperative models and community ownership.
We're working in collaboration with:
Find out more about Sustainable Community Development in Colombia
This is a documentary filmmaking project.
It engages with communities in Colombia, Argentina, Algeria and Indonesia that have experienced prolonged and entrenched violence of different kinds.
The aim is to achieve new understandings of how social imaginaries shape:
Find out more about Screening Violence
As part of the Water Security and Sustainable Development Hub, we are working to:
Find out more about Water Security and Sustainable Development Hub, Colombia
Newcastle University researchers are working on a monograph which analyses the role youth activists in public life.
This research is being conducted through cultural and political collectives.
They provide a vehicle for young people to intervene on issues they want to transform in their societies.
Large assemblies take place, where a variety of collectives agree on action.
These collectives and assemblies bypass conventional and severely discredited political organisations.
Find out more about Latin American Youth Activism
Our researchers partnered with 14 countries to assess major Latin American cities for prevalence of:
We're using the Rocket High-Performance Computing service at Newcastle University.
This technology will become the gold standard in providing information.
It delivers data on community-wide exposure to public health threats in near real-time.
Find out more about Expanding Wastewater-Based Epidemiology surveillance programmes in Latin America and Caribbean
We're investigating relationships between smart city technologies, disaster risk reduction and emergency responses.
We want to determine how smart cities can enable or constrain citizens’ actions.
We're looking at impact on planning for, and responding to, disasters and emergencies.
We're working with:
If you are an international student from Latin America, visit our International Students website .
You'll find information about entry requirements, scholarships and more for your country.
We offer opportunities to travel to Latin America and other global destinations through:
Our Faculty of Medical Sciences students have the opportunity to enrich their education.
They can further their professional development with an intercalated degree.
Most students choose some elective study, including experiences to learn abroad.
School of Dental Sciences students have performed basic dental care in the Amazon basin during electives.
Find out more about intercalated and elective study
We have a strategic partnership with the International Coalition of Sites of Conscience (ICSC) .
We've placed student interns at several ICSC member sites, including Circular de Morelia in Mexico and Museu de Pessoa in Brazil .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/global/middle-east-and-north-africa:
Newcastle University’s engagement in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region spans a wide array of academic disciplines.
Our academic disciplines in the MENA region range from archaeology and archives to renewable energy.
Newcastle University continues to build on a strong foundation of academic excellence, benefitting students and communities in the UK and the MENA region.
This is through:
We’re also proud to welcome more than 500 students from the MENA region.
We recently signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Princess Nourah University (PNU) in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
PNU is the largest all-female university in the world.
This new partnership will foster collaboration in key areas of mutual interest, including:
Newcastle University researchers have helped develop and provide high quality training to students.
This is in collaboration with:
The training focusses on key aspects of smart grid technology.
This is a key enabler in the integration of renewable energy sources in electrical networks.
Find out more about advanced teaching and training of renewable energy systems
Bulbul, which means nightingale in Arabic, is an international project led by Newcastle University researchers.
They are working across:
The project will develop tools to:
Find out more about Bulbul
Newcastle University archaeologists work with local and international partners to push the boundaries of knowledge of our shared past.
Newcastle’s growing, diverse and supportive community of outstanding researchers is developing cutting-edge theory, methods and technologies.
They work in key thematic areas such as early Islamic water management in the Middle East and North Africa.
Researchers also focus on the archaeology of Islamic(ate) cultural heritage in Europe.
Find out more about archaeology research
Together with Turkish academics, Newcastle University researchers are leading a project that will develop emerging landscape characterisation methods.
The technique can be used across and between disciplines.
The project will address the challenges of environmental and social change through landscape.
Find out more about cultural heritage in landscape
Newcastle University’s collaboration with King Abdulaziz University (KAU) in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia includes an external joint supervision programme.
This provides opportunities for female academic staff members to undertake jointly supervised Doctoral research.
This collaboration has resulted in successful graduates in the fields of Biology and Cellular Medicine.
If you are an international student from the Middle East or North Africa, visit our International Students website .
We’ve placed student interns at several ICSC member sites, including the Human Rights Center for Memory and Archives in Morocco and the Act for the Disappeared in Lebanon.
We offer opportunities to travel to the Middle East and North Africa and other global destinations through:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/global/north-america:
We’re proud of our wide-ranging North American collaborations.
From our historic links with Dr Martin Luther King Jr to cutting-edge research on the intersection of food, health and climate, we're proud of our transatlantic connections.
We work across North America with:
We are also proud to welcome more than 200 students from North America.
Newcastle and Pittsburgh universities are working with partners around the world to help shape a sustainable, just and inclusive future.
Newcastle University will host the partnership’s second collaborative conference on 19 - 20 October 2022.
It will explore and share best practices on how universities advance place-based approaches through community and student engagement.
The conference will also look at how to measure impact and show accountability.
Find out more about the partnership's virtual conference
Newcastle University is partnering with UC Davis to deliver a joint online course for students at both institutions.
The focus is around the UN Sustainable Development Goals of:
The course allows postgraduate students to work together across continents.
They can draw on the latest research exploring links between food, health and climate.
Find out more about our partnership with UC Davis
We are committed to embedding our core values of social justice and equality, diversity and inclusion in all that we do.
Newcastle University has a long-standing tradition of honouring social justice campaigners.
In 1967 we awarded an honorary degree to Dr Martin Luther King Jr , the only UK University to do so during his lifetime.
The naming of The Frederick Douglass Centre is a continuation of the legacy work that began in 2017.
Newcastle University commemorated the 50th anniversary of Dr King’s visit and Frederick Douglass’ stay in Newcastle in 1846.
To continue advancing our social justice goals, we signed a MoU with the International Coalition of Sites of Conscience in November 2021.
This strategic partnerships supports:
A team of archaeologists led by Newcastle University analysed ancient coprolites (fossilised excrement).
This confirmed the earliest known humans in the Americas were from a pre-Clovis culture near Oregon in North America.
It dated back more than 12,000 years.
Find out more about earliest known occupation of North America
Academics from Newcastle University have developed a research network with:
They will explore the concept that we are living in a new geological era.
Humans are altering the planet to such an extent that we are leaving a ubiquitous and permanent mark on the earth’s biological, hydrological, atmospheric and geological systems.
The Anthropocene Research Group has focussed its time on devising collaborations with local communities and municipal authorities in fields such as:
Find out more about Anthropocene
Newcastle University sponsors a wide range of exchange programmes with institutions across North America such as McGill University, University of Pittsburgh and University of Ottawa.
We also champion virtual exchanges and collaborative online international learning opportunities with IUPUI.
We offer opportunities to travel to North America and other global destinations through:
If you are an international student from North America, visit our International Students website .
We’ve placed student interns at several ICSC member sites, including Preservation Virginia’s Scotchtown in the USA.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/global/sids:
Newcastle University is actively partnering with Small Island Developing States (SIDS) institutions to tackle global challenges.
Small Island Developing States (SIDS) face distinct social, economic and environmental challenges.
SIDS are a group of 38 UN Member States and 20 Non-UN / Associate Members of United Nations regional commissions.
We are working in partnership with SIDS institutions to tackle global challenges such as:
We’re also proud to welcome students from over 15 SIDS countries, including the Cayman Islands, Bermuda and Trinidad and Tobago.
Find out more about Small Island Developing States
Newcastle University academics are exploring the role of customary law in marine resource governance.
This is in the plural legal systems of the South Pacific islands of:
The focus of this AHRC GCRF funded project was on women's experience and narratives of customary law.
The aim was to establish if, and to what extent, women have a voice when customary law is incorporated into governance mechanisms for sustainability.
Find out more about Pacific women and marine resources
We're delivering the FORCE project in partnership with the Centre for Resource Management and Environmental Studies at the University of the West Indies (UWI), Barbados.
The project involves extensive socioeconomic and governance fieldwork in various Caribbean locations such as:
Ecological surveys have also been carried out across 22 Caribbean countries in the assessment of threats to marine ecosystems.
The project included jointly taught PhD students, staff exchanges and training.
The FORCE project laid the groundwork for the National Ecosystem Assessment and Blue Economy programmes.
They are ongoing in Anguilla and the British Virgin Islands.
Find out more about the Future of Reefs in a Changing Environment project
Citizen science is an important mechanism for engaging young people in the Blue Economy.
We're currently implementing projects together with our Water Hub programme in SIDS in the Caribbean (SDG 6 and SDG 14).
Activities include:
Young researchers will collect and analyse data and report back to their national governments.
The aim is to inform policy relating to:
The project:
Find out more about Kids Action Thru Science
A symposium and two-week workshop recently took place on the use of sustainable, bio-based construction materials such as bamboo.
Students and researchers from across the globe came together for this event, sponsored by Newcastle University's Global Partnership Fund.
The workshops helped promote the decarbonisation of the built environment.
They encouraged long-term innovation amongst the next generation of architectures and engineers from:
We're co-sponsoring a one-week short course on the Blue Economy and Trade.
This is together with the University of the West Indies’ Shridath Ramphal Centre.
The course is in collaboration with the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) and the United Nations Conference for Trade and Development (UNCTAD).
It will examine the global politics of trade, development and the environment.
This is within the context of disasters such as:
Many of these disasters have been exacerbated or catalysed by climate change.
The course will also explore available tools to support relief, recovery and development.
This will help strengthen countries’ resilience and chance of prosperity.
If you're an international student, visit our International Student website .
Newcastle University has a strong partnership with the Barbados Ambassador and Permanent Representative to the United Nations in Geneva.
We were able to place students in three in-person and 11 virtual internships at the:
Through the internships, students gained a unique insight into the Embassy of a Small Island and Developing State.
They represented Barbados at the World Trade Organisations’ 12th Ministerial Conference.
H.E Chad Blackman, Ambassador of Barbados in Geneva also gave a guest lecture to Master’s students at Newcastle University.
He was also a guest speaker at a roundtable event on the Blue Economy.
We’ve placed student interns at several ICSC member sites, including the Women’s Institute for Alternative Development in Trinidad and Tobago.
We offer opportunities to travel to SIDS and other global destinations through:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/global/south-east-asia:
Newcastle University has forged strong relations with a wide range of partners in South East Asia and Oceania.
We aim to create globally aware problem-solvers ready to define the future of industry, government and the public sector.
Our researchers work hand in hand with partners in South East Asia and Oceania.
They’re able to achieve sustainable solutions to some of the world’s most challenging problems.
This includes informing healthy ageing and monitoring water quality.
We are also proud to work with more than 2,300 students from South East Asia and Oceania at our Newcastle, Singapore and Malaysia campuses.
In partnership with the Singapore Institute of Technology, we offer undergraduate and postgraduate degrees at its facilities in Singapore.
Students are also immersed in the hub for research, collaboration and innovation at the Newcastle Research & Innovation Institute (NewRIIS).
It focuses on areas such as:
Find out more about Newcastle University in Singapore
Our campus and world-class staff and students are the heart of the university’s community in Malaysia.
The NUMed Malaysia campus delivers high-quality medical and biomedical education.
It's preparing students for careers that will underpin the health and welfare of society.
Find out more about NUMed Malaysia
The Newcastle-Monash strategic partnership delivers world class research outputs and student experiences.
Both universities are able to combine their complementary strengths.
This ranges from biomedical sciences and clinical medicine to energy system digitalisation and cyber security.
The partnership includes:
Find out more about Monash-Newcastle University
Through our longstanding partnership, students can complete an MRes degree within our Faculty of Medical Sciences.
This is aimed at facilitating student mobility for the international classes of Medical and Dental students at UI.
We focus on giving students the skills needed to conduct medical research.
This is important to supporting Indonesia and the region's health service.
If you are an international student from South East Asia or Oceania, visit our International Students website .
Newcastle University also works with government ministries and organisations across the region.
We promote internationalisation and research collaboration.
We are a proud partner of the Indonesian International Student Mobility Award scheme .
This is in partnership with the Ministry of Education, Kampus Merdeka in Indonesia.
We welcome the opportunity to deliver a global study experience to undergraduate students from across the country.
In addition to our campuses in Singapore and Malaysia , we offer a wide range of opportunities to study in South East Asia and Oceania.
We have exchange programmes at institutions such as University of Sydney, Monash University and National University of Singapore.
We also offer opportunities to travel to South East Asia and Oceania and other global destinations through:
We’ve placed student interns at several ICSC member sites, including Youth for Peace in Cambodia.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/global/africa:
Collaborating with African institutions to deliver cutting-edge research and education.
Newcastle University is working with partners in Africa to deliver research and education.
The mutual benefit it's had for communities in the UK and in Africa include
We're also proud to welcome students and staff from 33 countries in Africa.
Newcastle University and Makerere University in Uganda are working with visual arts organisations in East Africa and the UK.
They are leading the development of:
The project has worked with more than a hundred independent artists, art writers and art professionals.
It's enabled researchers and students in both regions to learn directly from the first-hand experience of those working in the field.
Researchers from Newcastle’s School of Engineering are investigating the long-term change in both natural environments and urban systems.
There is a strong focus on water security and sustainable infrastructure.
This included a project in Kampala from 2018-2020.
It aimed to build resilience to pluvial flood risk, by considering both direct and indirect impacts.
Newcastle University academics are leading ground-breaking research in close collaboration with universities, hospitals and medical foundations in:
This research provides reliable data on the prevalence of stroke and Parkinson’s disease.
They are also looking to see how these diseases are perceived and the role that local support groups can provide.
Furthermore, students have directly contributed to this research through fieldwork placements at medical centres in Tanzania.
Find out more about Stroke, Parkinson’s and healthy ageing in East Africa
Researchers from the School of Environmental Sciences head the TROPical landScapes (TROPS) lab.
This is where extensive fieldwork in the tropics takes place, with sites in:
TROPS investigates biological and human well-being benefits provided by agroforestry in tropical landscapes.
It combines social and ecological methods to quantify how and to what extent integrated landscape management can enhance benefits to and from agriculture.
Find out more about tropical landscape conservation
Newcastle University Geography researchers are investigating the cultural and economic dimensions of food consumption and agriculture.
This is critical to confronting Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) in Kenya and Malawi.
The project looks at the changing cultures of poultry meat consumption and agricultural systems.
It explores ways in which it shapes antibiotic use or misuse in farming, with implications for tackling AMR.
The African Research Universities Alliance ( ARUA ) and N8 , the eight most research-intensive Universities in the North of England, including Newcastle, have implemented a three-year programme.
It will utilise interdisciplinary research to develop a new understanding of the African food system and help tackle global challenges of:
The partnership operates across six sub-Saharan African countries:
It also fosters capacity building and skills development for academics in both regions.
Mauritian Society
Team Kenya Society
If you're an international student from Africa, visit our International Students website .
We offer opportunities to travel to Africa and other global destinations through:
We've placed student interns at several ICSC member sites, including:
Our Faculty of Medical Sciences offers intercalating students the opportunity to conduct fieldwork research in Tanzania.
This is in partnership with the Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Centre.
On average, about ten students a year spend three months from March to May in Tanzania.
They conduct research on a variety of medical topics including:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/global/ncl-europe:
A new hub celebrating and furthering our work on, in and with Europe
NCL Europe acts as a focal point for European activity in the following areas:
Our news bulletin provides an update on all things NCL Europe.
Previous editions:
Check out our blog from the 2023 event which spotlights the amazing events which brought Europe to the forefront of Newcastle University life.
Upcoming Events 2025
Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions (MSCA) Individual Fellowships
Interactive Workshop
Join us for a dynamic and interactive workshop hosted by CONNECTS-UK, in collaboration with EURAXESS and Newcastle University (NCL Europe).
This session will focus on the Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions (MSCA) Individual Fellowships and provides:
Online, via Zoom.
Register your place.
The case studies highlighted represent only a small example of the significant European work we're proud to undertake.
Find out more about our research case studies.
Explore our impact and engagement case studies.
See our teaching and training case studies.
Our researchers have a wealth of European expertise in:
We are experts in critical thinking about the past, present and future of Europe.
We study Europe as a global, cultural and geopolitical region.
We focus on our responsibilities and contributions to global policy and society.
Newcastle University's knowledge of European scholarships, debates and policymaking sets us apart.
We are home to talented scholars and students from a wide range of European backgrounds.
They contribute fresh ideas and diversity to our classrooms, and globalise the experience of our UK students.
We also partner with European universities, companies and non-profits.
These partnerships support research collaboration, staff and student mobility, and joint teaching opportunities.
For more information, please contact:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/structure:
Let us introduce you to the teams that lead Newcastle University.
Professor Chris Day is our Vice-Chancellor and President .
Professor Day works with the Executive Board to oversee the running of the University.
The Principal Officers work for the Vice-Chancellor and President to manage areas of the University, such as Research, Finance and Education.
We are governed by five committees, known as statutory bodies.
Meet the statutory bodies of the University:
The University is led and managed by the Vice-Chancellor and President, and the Executive Board which is made up of senior staff from across the University.
Principal officers, comprised of members of University staff and non-University officers, assist with the governance and management of the University.
We are open about our finances.
Find out about our financial management and how we are addressing the gender pay gap by visiting our Transparency page .
Newcastle University is an exempt charity .
Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) that are exempt charities are regulated by the Office for Students.
The Office for Students performs this role on behalf of the Charity Commission in order to meet the requirements of the Charities Act 2011.
Find out more about our charity status and trustees .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/structure/transparency:
Find out about our financial management.
We aim to make the best use of the University's resources and fulfil our statutory responsibilities.
To quickly understand the breakdown of University income and how we spend it, see our Student Financial Summary 2023 - 24 ‌.
Get to grips with Newcastle's financial information in our Annual Report.
The University Remuneration Committee is a sub-group of Council and is chaired by independent lay-member, Claire Morgan .
The group oversees the pay of senior executives including the Vice-Chancellor and President.
Ex officio members include the Chair of Council , Pat Ritchie CBE and the Honorary Treasurer , Angela Russell
Appointed members include: Nitin Shukla and Professor Colin Riordan CBE
No member of the Executive Board is involved in discussions relating to their own pay.
For more detail about the work of Remuneration Committee, read the Terms of Reference ‌ (PDF: 75KB).
For more information about how Remuneration Committee oversees the pay and benefits of our senior executives, see our Executive Remuneration Policy (PDF: 167KB).
The University is committed to transparency about the remuneration of senior staff, including that of the Vice-Chancellor.
Newcastle University’s Remuneration Committee has determined the Vice-Chancellor’s salary level on the basis of the:
Newcastle has made progress in addressing a wide range of equality and diversity issues across the University but has more to do for gender equality.
We have been publishing Gender Pay Gap reports since 2017 and since 2021, have integrated our report into our Annual EDI Report.
Our report presents our data and progress on addressing the gender pay gap in the organisation, but also ethnicity and disability.
We are not legally required to publish ethnicity or disability pay gaps.
We choose to do so to enable us to be a transparent organisation that continuously improves.
In 2023, our mean (average) gender pay gap was 15.1%.
Our mean ethnicity pay gap among non-clinical academics was 0.1%.
Finally, our mean disability pay gap among all colleagues was 9.8%.
Our reports examine where colleagues are in our workforce, including their occupations and grades.
This helps us to better understand what contributes to our pay gaps.
This is enabling more targeted action to be taken.
Find out more by reading the Annual EDI and Gender Pay Gap Report 2024 (PDF: 1.5MB).
The University is working hard to address these gaps.
The Vice Chancellor has set up a Pay Equality Task and Finish Group to investigate the issues linked to pay equality.
The University has also:
The University's commitment to good practice on gender equality was recognised in 2016 when we achieved the Athena SWAN Silver Award .
If you would like more information about the University's expenditure, including financial statements, investments, and expenses, visit our Freedom of Information pages .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/structure/transparency-information:
The Office for Students requires the University to publish attainment data.
The information published on these pages shows the number of students who attained a particular degree or other academic awards, or a particular level of such an award, on completion of their course with us.
It also shows these numbers by reference to:
• the gender of the individuals to which they relate • their ethnicity • their socio-economic background
You can download the transparency information here: Transparency Tables 2023
"N/A" is displayed where there is no provision in a given mode or level.
"DP" indicates suppression for data protection reasons.
This is applied where the numerator is two or less, or differs from the denominator by no more than two students.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/structure/access-and-participation:
The Office for Students (OfS) has approved the University’s Access and Participation Plan for 2025-26 to 2028-29.
See our Access and Participation Plan Summary .
This Plan outlines the University’s commitment to widening participation at Newcastle University.
It provides equality of opportunity across the entire student lifecycle, and ensures continued commitment to improving fair access to higher education in general.
Embedded within the Plan is the University’s commitment to the North East, working in partnership with:
The Plan focusses on improving access and outcomes for specific groups of students because there is evidence that some outcomes can be lower for certain groups at Newcastle University compared with their peers .
This includes:
An approved Plan must comply with Sections 30 to 32 of the Higher Education and Research Act 2017 (HERA) and be published on the University’s website for transparency.
See our summary of 2024-25 course fees and our summary of 2025-26 course fees .
Find out more about our Approved Access and Participation Plans/Access Agreements for previous years.
Read more information about our transparency data .
Over the past three years, the University has introduced a new Admission system, Microsoft Dynamics, which has brought positive improvements to the processing of applications.
In the 22/23 cycle, the University began to use the new data fields provided by UCAS for 2023 entry.
These are collected as part of the UCAS process and then shared with all University providers, and feed into the Dynamics system.
The data fields include:
The University uses this information for the following purpose:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/locations:
With campuses in Newcastle, Singapore and Malaysia, Newcastle University has a global reach.
Our 50-acre campus in Newcastle city centre is the hub for our teaching, research and collaboration.
It includes facilities for research innovation, teaching and learning, and engagement.
Students benefit from facilities such as our library services and sport centre .
We aim to be a sustainable campus , promoting initiatives to encourage our students and staff to adopt a sustainable lifestyle.
At this site we carry out world-class research into ageing.
Newcastle University is a key partner in the Centre for Life, a pioneering science village based in the heart of the city, that promotes the life sciences through the Newcastle International Centre for Life .
Located near St James’ Park, our triple-accredited Newcastle University Business School prepares students to become the business leaders of tomorrow.
The Newcastle Helix Urban Sciences building is a living laboratory underpinning research to make urban centres more sustainable for future generations .
Our Malaysian-based international campus offers affordable UK undergraduate medical and biomedical education in Malaysia.
In collaboration with the Singapore Institute of Technology (SIT) and Ngee Ann and Nanyang Polytechnics, our Singapore campus offers engineering degrees.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/support-for-our-community:
We strive to do all we can to provide a safe and supportive experience for all our students.
For those students and colleagues affected by world events, this page provides information on the University’s response and signposts to advice and support.
We have been shocked and appalled by the riots that have taken place in our region and around the UK over the past week.
There is simply no excuse for the acts of indiscriminate, racially motivated violence directed towards members of our communities, local businesses and the police that have taken place across the country.
We recognise the actions of a few do not represent our communities.
While we must remain vigilant, last night it was heartening to see people from all walks of life coming together in defiance of the few who have sought to divide us.
The diversity of our communities is what makes us who we are as Universities, and what makes Newcastle the friendly, welcoming city of which we are so proud.
There is absolutely no place for racism, abuse, intimidation, incitement, or harassment of any kind.
We would like to take this opportunity to reiterate our commitment to ensuring that our campuses remain safe, inclusive and welcoming for everyone, and to working together with Northumbria Police and our local communities to ensure that no-one feels unsafe in our city.
Professor Chris Day CBE, Vice-Chancellor and President, Newcastle University
Professor Andy Long FREng, Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive, Northumbria University
.
Our University community continues to be deeply affected by the ongoing crisis in Gaza, Palestine and Israel, and the tragic loss of human life.
We understand the strength of feeling among colleagues and students, and empathise with the grief and distress many are experiencing.
It has been harrowing to see the loss of life and continuing suffering and as a community, we join together in a profound hope that a peaceful and permanent resolution is reached as soon as possible.
We hold that the violence must stop, and the people of Gaza must be provided with urgent humanitarian aid and a chance to rebuild their lives and homes.
We add our voice to those of our colleagues and students who hope for an immediate and sustainable ceasefire in Gaza and the release of hostages.
In this, we are echoing our Students’ Union.
The University respects the right to peaceful protest and is fully committed to upholding freedom of speech.
Our community is a space where colleagues and students can analyse and challenge difficult issues, while also accepting differences in views and opinion.
On 1st May, student protesters established a pro-Palestine encampment on campus.
Since that date we have engaged with the student protesters to understand and respond to their demands, and have provided ongoing practical and wellbeing support.
Our priority is always to ensure that our campus remains safe for everyone and protests should be within the law - we do not tolerate the use of threatening, abusive or insulting words or behaviour that causes, or is likely to cause, distress.
Over the past weeks we have been listening to our community and we want to share, confirm and clarify our positions on some of the issues that have been highlighted by the student encampment
We are aware of the impact current events are having on the mental health and wellbeing of many students and colleagues in our community and have guidance and support in place if they require it.
We are committed to ensuring our University remains a safe and supportive place for all.
We are absolutely committed to providing an inclusive community where everyone is treated with dignity and respect.
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion are among our core values.
There is no place for racism, Islamophobia, antisemitism, anti-Palestinian discrimination, abuse, incitement or harassment of any kind .
We encourage anyone in our community who is subject to, or who witnesses, any form of racism to report this using the appropriate channels and reports can be made anonymously.
All reported incidents are taken seriously, and due process will be followed to ensure equity and fairness of response.
Working with industry partners is critical in helping us to leverage our world-class research, to advance science and to support the region and nation’s development through high-value employment and skills.
Research partnerships are thoroughly reviewed and tested against our due diligence process and in line with Government’s Trusted Research policy.
All proposals for collaborations are reviewed on a case-by-case basis.
The University does not invest in companies making armaments, tobacco related companies, nor companies making revenue from the extraction and production of fossil fuels as we aim for our investments to align with our values as an institution.
For full transparency, we have shared more detailed information about our investment portfolio with colleagues and students and have responded to their questions.
Relevant information relating to ethical investment and our socially responsible investment policy can be found at Ethical Investment | Sustainable Campus | Newcastle University (ncl.ac.uk) .
The University's core commitment to academic freedom prevents us from cutting ties with a country and their universities.
So long as activities are within the law and do not contravene clear Government guidance, the University cannot tell its academics whom to work with, nor whom not to work with.
It is important we look to the future and we are working with groups of colleagues, students and national bodies, to explore the most effective and sustainable options to help support and rebuild Palestinian Higher Education.
In 2021, Newcastle University was awarded University of Sanctuary status recognising its work as a welcoming place of safety.
As part of this, we are establishing a new group with expertise in this area to consider how we can best support the rebuilding of institutions of higher education in Gaza in particular.
In the short-term, we have increased our annual support for the Council for At-Risk Academics (CARA) which provides urgent help to academics in immediate danger, and have extended the Vice-Chancellor's Excellence Scholarships to include Palestinian students.
More information on our Sanctuary work can be found here .
Senior colleagues meet regularly with representatives from our Students’ Union, and engage with groups of colleagues and students and with national bodies about the issues raised by the encampment.
Academic and professional services colleagues work hard on a daily basis to discuss how we can best support those impacted by the conflict.
The University has engaged with Sabbatical Officers and relevant student societies and continues to offer support, including through our Student Health and Wellbeing team.
We share regular communications with all colleagues and students.
We continue to provide members of the encampment access to toilets, hand washing facilities and drinking water as well as having provided power banks to the protesters for charging mobile phones and laptops.
What began as a peaceful student-led demonstration has become a focus for activism, attracting some individuals who are not connected with the University.
It has created significant disruption and is concerning as a number of students have had to have wellbeing appointments re-arranged or moved online and have limited access to critical services due to the protest escalation, including blocking the King’s Gate Building, where these services are located.
Protesters have targeted a number of University buildings and there has been criminal damage to our campus which has spread beyond the encampment area.
While we respect the right to peaceful protest, the space currently occupied by the encampment is required for other activities and the encampment is taking place without authorisation or permission.
Our thoughts remain with all those who are impacted by these devastating events and we continue to do everything we can to support the wellbeing of students and colleagues as a foremost priority.
We will continue to engage with our community, listen to concerns, and provide support for everyone affected by these events, and the shadow they have cast.
Our priority is to ensure that our campus remains safe for everyone.
There is no place for racism, abuse, incitement or harassment of any kind .
For anyone who needs advice or support, we have colleagues in the University and NUSU who can help.
For colleagues, support can be accessed via our the Employee Assistance Programme .
To report a hate crime, colleagues should use the Colleague Anonymous Disclosure Form (office.com) .
More information is also available via NUConnect
Find out more about our services offering support and advice.
Access to resources offering support and advice (internal log in needed).
Access  to latest updates and advice around travel.
Including guidance on our Freedom of Speech Policy.
Newcastle University aims to provide a welcoming place of safety for all.
Access our archive of University communications.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/sustainability:
We are working towards a more sustainable future.
We are doing this by embedding social and environmental justice throughout our research, education and partnering activities and across our campus.
We support the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs) – seeking peace and prosperity for all people and the planet, now and in the future.
Social and environmental justice are core values of our Vision and Strategy.
We work in depth and breadth across all the Sustainable Development Goals.
Our continued high performance in global league rankings highlights our commitment and work towards sustainable development.
It shows how the alignment of our work with the UNSDGs is driving education, research and innovation across the University.
We are also ranked top 25 in the UK, and top 200 in the world out of 2,318 institutions in the THE Impact rankings .
The breadth of our commitment to social and environmental justice is evident in our top 50 ranking for Responsible Consumption and Production and top 100 ranking across a further five of the UN SDGs: SDG 1 No Poverty, SDG10 Reduced Inequalities, SDG13 Climate Action, SDG 14 Life Below Water and SDG15 Life on Land
We are working towards a net-zero goal on campus, with an aim of embedding sustainability in everything we do, from our operations, to our teaching and research.
We have recently been awarded a Queen’s Anniversary Prize for global research excellence in water.
Pro-Vice-Chancellor Engagement and Place
We are working to ensure there is enough, for all, forever.
Building a fairer, stronger and more sustainable future.
Find out about climate action at Newcastle University.
Newcastle University is committed to social justice in all that we do.
We work together to create a fairer and more just society.
At Newcastle University we are leading critical research on pressing environmental issues.
The Sustainability Team leads on embedding sustainability throughout campus activity.
Working together with our partners, we make important discoveries to tackle today's global challenges.
Newcastle is an inclusive community where everyone is treated with dignity and respect.
We understand One Planet to mean that resources are finite and that current practices and consumption levels are unsustainable.
Learn how Newcastle University is supporting this United Nations initiative.
Newcastle University is proud to be a signatory of the Concordat for the Environmental Sustainability of Research and Innovation Practice .
This sector-wide agreement recognises the urgent need to reduce the environmental impacts of research and commits us to delivering world-leading innovation in a more responsible and sustainable way.
Led by our University Executive Board, this step marks a clear commitment to driving real change.
Our focus areas include:
As part of this commitment, Professor Matthew Grenby, PVC for Research and Innovation, sits on the EAUC Oversight Group, which advises the UK research community and monitors progress towards the Concordat’s sustainability goals.
A signed statement from Vice-Chancellor Professor Chris Day confirms Newcastle University's commitment.
Writing for The Conversation, Dr Colin Manning discusses that the weather is rarely this windy in August – which makes it more dangerous.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/sustainability/sustainable-development:
We support the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals – seeking peace and prosperity for all people and the planet now and in the future.
Across academic disciplines and national borders we address the development challenges facing the world today.
We work towards building a fairer, stronger and more sustainable future.
Social and environmental justice is embedded in everything we do, including our:
Our Global Challenges Academy underlines our commitment and enables us to make our research work for sustainable development.
Both University staff and our partners can share ideas and best practice.
This helps find evidence-informed solutions to realise the UN Sustainable Development Goals, particularly where solutions are most urgently needed.
Our action towards the 17 Sustainable Development Goals is varied and far-reaching and includes:
Find out more about how we support this United Nations initiative.
Discover our news, insights and more about our research relating to the UN Sustainable Development Goals
The Food Safety Research Network is expanding its work to tackle the UK’s most pressing foodborne risks: by connecting science with those who feed the nation.
Marine life may be more resilient to climate stress than previously thought, thanks to shifting oxygen levels in coastal waters.
End poverty in all its forms everywhere.
End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture.
Ensure healthy lives and promote wellbeing for all, at all ages.
Ensure inclusive and quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all.
Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls.
Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all.
Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy.
Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all.
Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialisation and foster innovation.
Reduce inequality within and among countries.
Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns.
Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts.
Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development.
Protect and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems and reverse land degradation.
Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development.
Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/facilities:
Newcastle University has a range of award-winning facilities available for staff, students and partners alike.
Take a look at our lecture theatres, labs and creative spaces.
Learn more about libraries and study spaces available to postgraduates.
With cutting-edge bioscience labs and industry-standard engineering equipment, our facilities can meet your research and commercial needs.
From small meetings to conferences for 1,000 delegates, find out how we can provide the perfect support for your event.
Newcastle University’s Students’ Union (NUSU) is at the centre of student life on campus.
Get ahead with great deals from the Students’ Union shop, both on site and online.
The campus includes facilities for teaching, research, and innovation as well as accommodation buildings and catering outlets .
We welcome our local community on to campus to enjoy free cultural events and museums, galleries and theatres .
Our award-winning libraries include the:
Make the most of our extensive collections and exceptional resources, including:
Our library services are designed to help you study with our bookable group study rooms, in-house print and binding services and digital learning spaces for collaborative work.
Don’t forget to visit our internet café , the Learning Lounge , in the Philip Robinson Library.
Year-round, help is never far away with faculty liaison librarians, desk services and roving help on hand to provide support.
Our University Library Service has a reputation as one of the best in the country and has been awarded five government Charter Marks and two prestigious Customer Service Excellence awards .
Find out about our exceptional IT Service that provides free WiFi and computer clusters across campus, as well as technical support for teaching and research.
The Newcastle Sport offers amazing opportunities for all abilities.
Whether you're an elite athlete or want try out something new, come down and get involved.
The Newcastle University WebStore features a range of University products and services, including:
View the product catalogue for the full range.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/catering:
Discover cafés, restaurants and catering to suit all tastes and dietary requirements
UPAY App launching September 2025 – your new way to pay and save on campus.
More info coming soon.
Introducing our NEW event catering packages - plus hot buffet options and more!
Explore the menu and don't miss out.
There are numerous cafés and restaurants on campus.
All serve a selection of hot and cold food, drinks and snacks.
We offer refreshments and food for all meetings, events and conferences taking place on campus.
We offer a range of ways for students to save money on campus.
Including our Annual Catering Package and Student 10% Discount Fob.
We take our environmental and social responsibility seriously.
Learn more about our policies on sustainability and healthy food.
We do our best to accommodate dietary requirements wherever possible.
Find out more.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/edi:
We are dedicated to fostering an inclusive community in which every individual feels valued.
Our commitment to equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) is underpinned by our EDI Strategy which guides our efforts to ensure that all colleagues and students thrive in a values-led environment.
Our EDI team, with the support of our Executive Board, work with all departments to embed EDI principles and cultivate a culture of inclusion.
We achieve this through:
We invite you to join is in promoting equality, embracing diversity, and ensuring that everyone at the University feels a sense of belonging and can flourish.
As you navigate this website, you will find resources, reporting mechanisms, and activities relating to protected characteristics
Newcastle University holds a Bronze Race Equality Charter (REC) Award.
We were the only UK university to give Dr Martin Luther King Jr an honorary degree during his lifetime.
Newcastle University are proud to be a member of the Athena Swan Charter and hold an institutional level Silver Athena Swan Award and six departmental awards.
Newcastle University has Disability Confident level 2 Employer status which recognises our commitment to recruiting and developing people in the organisation.
We welcome individuals of all faiths and are proud of our religious diversity.
Get involved with one of our faith groups or find out about worship spaces on campus.
As a Stonewall Global Diversity Champion, we continue to find more ways to ensure Newcastle University is lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and non-binary (LGBTQ+) inclusive.
Newcastle University aspires to be a family friendly centre of excellence providing the very best support to parents and carers.
Our inclusive culture does not tolerate hate crime, discrimination, victimisation or harassment.
Discover our wide range of EDI resources.
This toolkit combines the theory of allyship with actionable insights to enable users to create and inclusive campus.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/edi/race:
Racial equality occurs when institutions give equal opportunity to people of all races.
Newcastle University is a values-based organisation, with EDI at the heart of our strategy.
We remain committed to being actively anti-racist and received a Race Equality Charter (REC) Bronze Award by Advance HE.
This was in recognition of our work towards tackling race inequality in higher education.
Advance HE’s REC was set up to improve the representation, experience, progression and success of racially minoritised colleagues and students within higher education.
REC follows five principles and provides a rigorous and robust framework.
Institutions can then work to critically reflect and act on institutional and cultural barriers.
In applying to be part of the REC, we adopt these principles within policies, practices, action plans and culture.
The Race Equality Charter is a vehicle and a foundation on which we can start to work towards being a more equitable institution.
We want to give colleagues the opportunity and confidence to challenge systems, processes and practices that perpetuate systemic racism and racial inequality.
Underlying our REC application is an action plan.
It provides a framework to guide our actions around race equality for the period of 2022/23 – 2026/27.
Our key overarching objectives identified in our REC Action Plan are:
Our REC Implementation and Action Group will drive the implementation of our REC Action Plan.
It consists of key stakeholders who will lead various aspects of the plan.
Professor Judith Rankin, Dean of EDI, chairs the group, and Naomi Oosman-Watts, Director of Student Success, co-chairs.
Please find available Race Equality Charter Implementation and Action group minutes here.
Newcastle University's Race Equality Network (NU REN) play is integral to our race equality.
Their work feeds into all equality, diversity and inclusion work at Newcastle University.
The network represents and amplifies the voices of all colleagues and postgraduate research students who self-identify as belonging to a minoritised group.
We also welcome White allies who actively support the broad strategic aims of the network by taking an anti-racist stance.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/edi/religion-belief:
Newcastle University plays host to a diverse student and staff community and welcomes students and staff members of all faiths and none.
In order to aid the student experience and provide more support to colleagues, Newcastle University provides a Chaplaincy service.
The Chaplaincy service works within the remit of the Student Health and Wellbeing service.
It is available to all students and colleagues, of all faiths and none.
The Chaplaincy Service is a dedicated team made up of Newcastle University colleagues from varying faith organisations.
They comprise of several Christian, as well as Buddhist and Jewish, chaplains.
The team works towards making the University a place of religious tolerance, diversity and respect.
A further They are joined in their work by a further team of honorary chaplains.
The Chaplaincy at Newcastle University offers
Newcastle University provides a Muslim prayer space in the King George VI.
This is accessible to all colleagues and students, using a smartcard.
Newcastle University manages the space, in accordance with the Faith Space Policy.
There are two quiet rooms available in the Urban Sciences Building, which are suitable for prayer and reflection.
Two quiet rooms are also available in the Stephenson Building, in rooms 1.008 and 1.009 on the first floor.
The Chaplains' office is now in the Agriculture Building.
If you have difficulty booking a space for a faith activity or event please contact Owen Seth , the Faith and Spirituality Facilities Manager.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/edi/lgbtq:
As a Stonewall Global Diversity Champion, we are finding even more ways to ensure Newcastle is LGBTQ+ and non-binary inclusive.
The Stonewall Diversity Champions programme is a leading best-practice employers' forum.
It includes organisations committed to Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer (LGBTQ+) inclusion.
We are an international organisation with campuses in Malaysia and Singapore.
We joined the Global Diversity Champion Programme in 2016 to ensure this commitment extends to all our colleagues across the world.
Stonewall membership provides us access to a vast bank of information, experience and knowledge.
This helps us to ensure that all LGBTQ+ colleagues are accepted without exception in the workplace.
As a Diversity Champion we will:
Members of the University community established The Rainbow Network.
This is for members of the University community with the purpose of:
We aim to do so through engagement in actions which produce and embed transformational change for individuals and groups.
We work upwards and outwards through the community and University to support individuals.
We also change structures and systems that do not support them.
Rainbow is open to colleagues and PGR students of all genders and sexualities, and across all grades and roles including:
We engage in and provide advocacy, education, celebration and promotion of diversity and inclusion.
We do this by developing, maintaining and enhancing a presence at the University through events.
We influence University policy on all matters relevant to LGBTQ+ inclusion.
We offer networks of support by working with other EDI groups at Newcastle and LGBTQ+ networks at other universities, including:
In turn, this works towards transforming culture and perceptions to reduce and eliminate everyday bi/homo/transphobia.
Rainbow is a collaborative, inclusive and safe space in which all members can feel valued and equal.
It adopts a rights-based approach informed by evidence, community needs and practice.
This is to develop ideas, initiatives and respond to requests for advice, support and in its advocacy.
We are open to a variety of ways of working as appropriate.
These include:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/edi/disability:
There are several reasons why it’s a good idea to share information about your disability or long-term health condition with the University.
It helps us:
Please complete our Disability Information Form to let us know what will help you and we will do our best to provide it.
If you’re applying for a job with us, we will invite you to let us know about your disability.
This is part of the standard application process through our recruitment system.
If we offer you an interview, we'll then ask if you want us to make any particular arrangements or adjustments.
Your input is vital as you know your condition better than anyone.
Please don’t hesitate to let us know what will help you by completing the Disability Information Form and we will do our best to provide it.
Contact recruitment@newcastle.ac.uk if you want to discuss your situation, or have any problems completing your application.
As a colleague, there are two ways you can let us know about your disability .
We know that conditions and their impact can vary, so use these whenever you need to update this information.
Monitoring : you can update your HR record using the MyDetails app, available from the Top Task menu on the staff homepage
Workplace adjustments : to discuss the way your disability affects you and what adjustments we may need to make
If you need any help, speak to your local People Services team .
Newcastle University commit to making the changes that will provide an environment where all our staff can flourish.
We appreciate that not everyone will need adjustments.
Some may require minor changes while others will require us to organise a package of adjustments.
Your manager will:
There are a set of guidelines and forms that we use to inform this process.
Once we agree upon an adjustments plan, the University will fund the changes , in line with our legal obligations.
In some cases, we may ask you to apply for funding to assist with the adjustments , through Access To Work.
If you need help, speak to the People Services team .
We are a level 2 Disability Confident Employer after completing a self-assessment covering two themes.
These themes were 'getting the right people for your business' and 'keeping and developing your people'.
The self-assessment process offered the opportunity to recognise existing practice in the institution.
We currently
The self-assessment process has also inspired new activity.
The NU Disability Interest Group is a disabled staff and student network at Newcastle University.
We aim to:
Contact us by email: contact.dig@newcastle.ac.uk .
A wide range of resources is available to help staff and students of Newcastle University to manage issues, remove barriers and promote access and inclusion.
Students should visit Student Wellbeing to find out more .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/edi/equality-analysis:
Equality Analysis is a systematic analysis of a policy, strategy, service, system, project, plans or any activity that involves people.
Before implementing any changes, we use a predictive tool to evaluate:
Equality analysis determines the extent of any differential or adverse impact on under-represented groups.
In other words, it should ask questions such as whether any group is being:
If there is an adverse impact, alternative policies can help to:
We also use alternative policies as a tool to support continuous improvement across the University.
Equality analysis has to be undertaken for creation of any of the following:
You need to fill out the form based on our guidance.
We should make decisions based on evidence such as HESA benchmarking or survey data.
Applicants can access existing data sets or request additional data, where available.
Staff networks can also be consulted with regarding the proposed change.
Consultation should be proportionate to the scale of the activity.
Sign-off should be at the appropriate level for the activity.
For example, the School Executive Board approves a new school policy.
The Head of School would then sign this policy off.
Faculty guidelines would go forward to Faculty Executive Board.
The Faculty's Pro-Vice-Chancellor would then sign these off.
Within Professional Services, the level of approval will depend on the scope of the activity.
A completed equality analysis should be provided as an appendix, or a reasonable justification explaining why it is not required.
Following approval, you should email a signed copy of the equality analysis and the document to: equality.analysis@ncl.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/social-justice/stories:
The Newcastle University Social Justice Fund is currently closed.
Contact socialjustice@ncl.ac.uk for queries and information on future deadlines.
The Fund is developing a portfolio of successful relationships between the University and the Voluntary, Community and Social Enterprise (VCSE) sector.
Funded projects will focus on key social justice issues.
They will take a long-term view to enhancing the relationship between Newcastle University and the VCSE sector.
We are particularly interested in applications that will contribute to meaningful and mutually beneficial relationships between the University and VCSE partners and that are co-produced.
In 2024 we launched the Pulse Review Fund.
This fund supported collaborative projects between university colleagues and VCSE sector organisations to deliver short, action focussed pieces of work linked to a certain theme.
The theme for the 2024 fund was around Poverty and Cost of Living and supported 5 different collaborations.
These projects were launched at a Social Justice Forum in October 2024 with reports on the outcomes of their work.
You can find out more about these projects below and download the full reports.
This collaborative project between International Community of Sunderland (ICOS), a Sunderland-based registered charity, Newcastle University, and the NIHR North East North Cumbria Applied Research Collaboration consisted of interviews, creative art-based workshops and a live artist workshop to explore the extent to which the cost-of-living crisis impacts on the wellbeing of Eastern European families living in Sunderland, North East England.
Download the full report - Together Through Crisis
This project showcases best practice from community organisations engaged in tackling issues of urban precarity.
Short films focusing on practices were produced, drawing on experiences in low-income settlements in Latin America.
It is aimed at community organisations, practitioners, and policymakers, with the aim of fostering more democratic and inclusive approaches of urban planning and housing policies.
Download the full report - Grassroot Innovations Tackling Housing Precarity
Thousands of children and young people are legally adopted in the UK annually.
This study uncovers hidden poverty experienced by adoptive families, spanning into adulthood.
The project addresses barriers to financial stability including shame, inability to work, and lack of awareness about eligibility for benefits and financial support.
Download the full report - The Hidden Burden of Poverty Among Adoptive Families
Newcastle University lists social justice among its ‘core values’.
Research projects from many disciplines pursue this theme.
But what does this mean for the community researchers and partners upon whom this social justice research depends?
How are those community researchers reimbursed for giving their time?
And how might research findings centre their perspectives?
Download the full report - Paying Our Way Research Participation and Fair Pay
The fear of sanctions is widespread.
This project explored key reasons why people are sanctioned, such as travel costs, unreliable transport and inflexible appointments as well as possible solutions to overcome these barriers.
Many claimants rely on public transport and support free or subsidised options.
Further research is needed to address these issues and reduce sanction rates.
Download the full report - Why are people facing sanctions for Universal Credit
Over the years we have funded numerous social justice projects that have developed relationships between the university and the VCSE sector and have worked to tackle key social justice issues.
Some examples of work supported by the Social Justice fund at Newcastle University include:
Tyne and Wear Citizens partnered with Brett Cherry (Newcastle University) to explore the concept of ‘Just Transitions’ with the local communtiies of Blyth to address social, economic, and environemental injustices with communtiy led solutions.
Research workshops were facilitated to examine challenges and opportunities in the area, and findings were presented at the Tyne and Wear delegates assembly in november 2023.
Findings also influenced the North East Devolution Manifesto, rooting key menifesto priorities in community concerns.
The North East Child Poverty Commission (NECPC) is a regional cross-sector network of organisations that collectively believe ‘child poverty in the North East is not inevitable and ending it is worth working for, together’.
The Commission is hosted by – but independent of – Newcastle University.
Over the course of a year, NECPC undertook qualitative and quantitative research across the region, starting with the question ‘what should a child poverty strategy for the North East look like?’ This included conversations with over 150 organisations from all sectors working throughout the region, parents/carers, and with young people themselves.
The final report, ‘No time to wait: an ambitious blueprint for tackling child poverty in the North East’ was published in February 2024 ahead of the two Mayoral combined authority elections that took place in the region in May 2024.
It made the case for taking a ‘public health approach’ to tackling child poverty in our region.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/partnerships:
At Newcastle University we are committed to addressing global problems through collaboration.
Find out about the partners we work with to provide creative solutions to world-wide challenges.
Newcastle's ambitious global partnerships are driving solutions to current and future challenges.
Proud of our regional roots, we are committed to making a positive impact in the north-east.
As part of our role as a civic university, we offer funding, networks and support to the local community.
We are committed to welcoming the brightest and best students, regardless of background.
Dedicated schemes for enhancing skills in the region through continued professional development.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/partnerships/community:
Read about how we use teaching, research and continued professional development to make a positive impact on the local community.
Newcastle University is fostering relationships with voluntary groups and social enterprises across the north-east to catalyse regional growth, sustainability and social mobility.
Awarded by the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC), the Impact Acceleration Account (IAA) provides funding for projects that widen the impact of social science research.
We work closely with corporate and academic partners, including Durham University , to deliver social and economic benefits and make a difference to communities locally, nationally and internationally.
You can find out more by following our HaSS research blog , or by contacting us at esrciaa@newcastle.ac.uk .
View examples of projects we've been involved in:
The Sustrans DIY Streets Project was a design scheme to bring the heart of residents back into the neighbourhood.
Newcastle researchers supported Sustrans’ work in the creation of a pop-up social and play space.
This project led to the development of the amazing Fenham Pocket Park , which opened in 2016.
With the help of IAA funding, our very own David Webb from the School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape was seconded to the CHAT Trust.
This kicked off the Reclaim the Lanes project which transformed back lanes and alleys in local neighbourhoods into fantastic outdoor spaces for growing and socialising.
The project focused on engaging young people who designed and painted a beautiful mural that the whole community is proud of.
DemTalk is a ground-breaking online toolkit developed in partnership with the Alzheimer’s Society that enables communication between people living with dementia and those who care for them.
IAA funding fostered a partnership between Youth Focus North East and Newcastle University, meaning that the perspectives of young carers could be incorporated when developing the new service.
Collaborative development led to the launch of the app in 2017.
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships, primarily funded by Innovate UK, support organisations who want to improve their offering by accessing the expertise available within UK Universities.
Seven Stories has a mission to save, celebrate and share Britain’s rich literary heritage in children’s literature.
To increase their appeal to adult and academic audiences, they worked with Newcastle University through a Knowledge Transfer Partnership.
The project improved Seven Stories’ collection management and exhibitions , whilst generating valuable research insight for Newcastle University.
Our partnership with Seven Stories won the Knowledge Exchange/Transfer Initiative of the Year category at the 2017 Times Higher Education Leadership and Management Awards .
Our strong relationships with local employers provide invaluable work experience and graduate opportunities for our students.
I feel this internship has helped me to enhance my skills in communication, community awareness of the charity sector, working autonomously and under pressure and problem solving.
The Open Air Laboratories Project (OPAL) a community project funded by the Big Lottery.
It's an award-winning inclusive scheme that provides unique learning experiences to people of all ages and abilities, across all areas of the community.
As part of this we have a partnership with Newcastle College that works to enhance the employability of their students and using the OPAL toolbox to empower young people to explore a greater range of career opportunities.
To get involved or to find out more contact Jonathan Smith (OPAL-NE Community Scientist)
If you're from a voluntary or community organisation and you're interested in finding out how you can work with Newcastle University contact:
Andrea Henderson University Engagement Manager Telephone: +44 (0)191 208 8312 Email: andrea.henderson@ncl.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/partnerships/santander:
Santander has been a valuable partner of Newcastle University since 2009.
We have collaborated with Santander Universities for over 15 years.
This collaboration helps offer students opportunities to succeed, regardless of circumstance.
Their aim is to:
They deliver this through the three pillars of Education, Employability and Entrepreneurship.
Find out more about Santander Universities and the amazing work they do with universities in the UK.
Our latest agreement with Santander Universities focuses on the following areas:
All undergraduate and postgraduate students are eligible to enter a draw to win one of 10 awards of £1,000 given to us by Santander Universities.
Applications are made via the Santander Open Academy Platform during a set period each year (usually at the start of Semester 1) and recipients are chosen at random.
In 2022/23 Santander Universities launched a new Santander Scholar’s Programme with one scholarship being awarded to each of their partner universities starting in that academic year.
These students are being supported for three years with a financial scholarship and wrap-around support, development and activity programme.
Santander help to fund 15 summer internships through the Careers Service .
These internships provide an opportunity to gain graduate level work experience in companies of all sizes as well as within the University.
Through Start Up , we offer grants to help businesses our students and graduates have set up to thrive.
Fiona Watson Head of Corporate and Foundation Relations Fiona.Watson2@newcastle.ac.uk 0191 208 5667

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/partnerships/regional:
Through regional partnerships, we have a positive impact on the city of Newcastle and the north-east of England.
We have a strong tradition of working for the public benefit.
Through the co-creation of knowledge with partners we seek to strengthen this further.
Our Engagement and Place Awards take place once a year.
As a civic university, our regional engagement is integral to ensuring that our academic and professional activities have economic, social and cultural benefits .
Newcastle and Northumbria Universities are making a real difference to the city through their Collaborative Newcastle Universities Agreement (CNUA).
This partnership focuses on improving social mobility, enhancing skills, supporting students, driving health innovation, and working towards a sustainable future.
By joining forces with local organizations, the universities are tackling the city's biggest challenges and creating positive change for the community.
Universities for North East England (UNEE) is a collaboration between the following universities:
It builds on many years of joint working and existing collaborations between the institutions.
As places of knowledge and innovation, our universities play a crucial role in driving economic growth.
It also plats a part in the educational, social and cultural success of the region.
The strength of the collaboration lies in the diversity of each institution and their extensive networks.
UNEE will act as a strong unified place-informed voice for the higher education sector and the North East region.
Its purpose is to make higher education accessible for study, business, innovation, and investment.
It will also offer regional insight to help inform national Higher Education policy.
At Newcastle University, we lead Insights North East , a partnership between the University and:
The partnership aims to build a shared understanding of the knowledge and data within each partner organisation.
This is then used to enable regional policymakers to better address the needs of local communities.
North East Museums is a regional museum, art gallery and archives service.
North East Museums is supported by the four local authorities in Tyneside and our University.
Two venues are based on our campus:
Find out more about our cultural venues .
Creative Fuse North East brings together expertise from the region’s five universities.
This supports the vibrant, dynamic, and fast-growing Creative, Digital and IT (CDIT) sector.
It will help to ensure that the creative and digital economy becomes more resilient and grows faster.
In turn, this will help to create more and better jobs for the region.
We facilitate the Wor Culture forum for the region.
It is a place for:
Newcastle Health Innovation Partners is one of eight Academic Health Science Centres in the UK.
It brings together world-class research, education and clinical practice from:
The partnership works across the region:
The beginnings of our University are tied to the booming industry of the region in the 1800s.
Our responsibility to support local business remains with us today.
We have strong partnerships with global corporates that have a presence in the region including:
We have several programmes for key sectors including:
We’re also creating new companies .
Built from cutting edge research, the companies:
The Northern Accelerator scheme is a partnership across the region’s five universities.
It is central to the creation and growth of new companies.
Learn more about the Northern Accelerator scheme .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/partnerships/schools:
Newcastle University hosts a progressive programme of outreach interventions.
We welcome the brightest and best students, regardless of their background.
We have a longstanding commitment to widening participation and equal opportunities.
This is outlined in our Access and Participation Plan .
We provide a University-wide programme of outreach to students and staff in schools and colleges from across the UK.
We work in partnership with teachers, current students and our graduates.
Our range of activities and workshops includes a focus on cognitive skills, pupil attainment and a sense of belonging.
Each year, we deliver around 800 in-school sessions and engage with over 100,000 pupils.
Find out how we can support your school
Over 10,000 widening participation students have completed the Programme PARTNERS.
Each student benefited from a lower contextual offer of entry and a free residential summer school.
Find out how you or your students could take part in PARTNERS
Our commitment to widening participation includes University admissions.
When considering each undergraduate application, we review UCAS data.
This includes socio-economic postcode data, school or college and/or personal circumstances.
It enables us to set each student’s academic achievements in the context of their circumstances.
We can then make contextual offers where appropriate.
Find out whether you may be eligible for a lower contextual offer
We lead the following national and regional widening participation partnerships:
Realising Opportunities is a unique collaboration of leading, research intensive universities.
Working to achieve fair access for students from groups underrepresented in higher education.
The five north east universities work together to increase the progression of under-represented groups into higher education.
Outreach activities focus on pre-16 school groups.
A partnership between the five universities and 15 further education colleges in the North East.
The aim is to create a step-change in higher education progression rates.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/helix:
Newcastle Helix brings together academia, the public sector, communities, and business.
We are creating a global centre for urban innovation in the heart of the city.
We are developing Newcastle Helix together with Newcastle City Council and Legal and General .
The Helix fulfils three key functions for us:
The Newcastle Helix site is a landmark location.
In total it comprises:
The site includes the following buildings:
For further information about our work:
Email: info@newcastlehelix.com
Address:
Newcastle Science Central Management LLP c/o Newcastle University 4th Floor, Kings Gate Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 7RU

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/art-on-campus:
Our vibrant campus is home to numerous exciting artworks.
Art pieces at Newcastle University range from sculpture to mosaic, and unique installations to poetry.
Our campus is also home to a variety of galleries, museums and other venues where you can see and experience culture.
Art helps create a vibrant environment that can be discovered and enjoyed by students, staff and visitors, as well as the public passing through.
Explore our site to discover more about individual artists and the artwork on display , as well as the Newcastle University Art on Campus programme .
Our art on campus map will help you find all the pieces across the university.
With a mission to widen the debate around architecture and planning in the contemporary world, the Farrell is a centre for events, exhibitions, practice and research relating to our built environment.
Newcastle University is a UK leader in teaching, practice and research in the Creative Arts.
Our activities encompass Fine Art; Filmmaking, Music: Composition and Performance; Creative Writing; Architecture; Curatorial Practice; Digital Cultures; Theatre & Performance.
The Hancock is Newcastle University’s museum of natural history and ancient civilisations.
Housing important collections from the natural world, as well as artefacts from around the world, the museum helps in our understanding of other cultures.
With a changing programme of contemporary art exhibitions, and events including artist and curator talks, the Hatton Gallery has been at the heart of cultural life in the North East since the early 20th century.
Covering a wide range of disciplines and key contemporary issues, our speakers are leaders in their field.
Free and open to all.
Our Live Music programme includes lunchtime concerts and student performances.
They are free and open to everyone.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/history:
Dedicated to life-changing education and research, our history spans 190 years.
As the Industrial Revolution, fuelled by some of the North East’s own innovators and engineers, changed Britain and the world, our history began.
In 1834, in the Barber Surgeon’s Company Hall of Newcastle, a School of Medicine and Surgery was founded to meet the demand for surgeons and doctors.
As pressure mounted for engineers, architects, chemists and biologists needed in the growing shipbuilding, iron, steel, mining and agricultural industries, a College of Physical Science was formed in 1871.
By 1908, the two colleges had become one division of the federal University of Durham, and Newcastle had become a great city; a leading player in the creation of the modern world.
The two colleges merged in 1937, forming King’s College and pioneering regionally important applied sciences, such as geology, mining, naval architecture, engineering and agriculture.
With the dissolution of the federal University of Durham in 1963, King's College became the University of Newcastle upon Tyne.
Today, Newcastle University operates in three locations – Newcastle, Singapore, and Malaysia.
We’re home to a vibrant international community of over 27,000 students from 145 countries.
We work with strategic partners, industry collaborators and employers around the world.
We’re pushing the boundaries of knowledge through world-leading research.
We’re nurturing generations of students to build a society that’s better, stronger, and fairer.
Step back in time and explore some of the milestones that have shaped us.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/education-strategy:
A vision for education and skills at Newcastle.
We're committed to enhancing the education of all our students and empowering them to build an education for life.
Our new strategy has been created in partnership with colleagues and students and will help us form an inclusive, future-ready learning environment.
To be a global, future-facing provider of leading edge, inclusive and transformational higher education for our students.
To provide all our students with an education for life that engages, challenges and supports them to discover and fulfil their potential, both while they are studying with us and once they have graduated.
To provide a core, universal offer for all students, including tailored provision where needed, to ensure equity of access, experience and in outcomes for all, regardless of background, identity, nationality, location or mode of study.
To put at the heart of our curriculum and learning experiences, encounters with our world leading research and the leading edge of industry and practice.
To ensure our students are fit for their future, our teaching is fit for the future of our offer, and our colleagues are fit for the future of HE

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/study:
We deliver an outstanding learning experience that equips our students for future success.
Study with us and you'll be challenged and supported, so that you can achieve great things.
Visit our Academic Experience page for information about the 2025-26 academic year.
Newcastle University is home to teaching and research across a diverse and exciting range of subject areas.
We have over 185 undergraduate and 270 postgraduate degrees to choose from.
Get a world-class undergraduate education at our city-centre campus, in one of the UK's favourite cities.
Browse our undergraduate subject areas and find the right course for you.
Do you want to extend your subject knowledge, specialise in a field, or gain a competitive edge in the jobs market?
We can help you find the right postgraduate study option for you.
Our CPD courses combine world-leading research and specialist expertise, so you can be sure that your organisation will gain market-leading skills.
We are a world-leading university, advancing knowledge, providing creative solutions, and solving global problems.
We are passionate in our belief that universities should play a fundamental role in creating and fostering more equitable societies.
Learn more about who we are.
Over 1,000 scholarships available for International and EU students.
Ensure you’re prepared to help support your child through their university application and beyond.
Receive a lower conditional offer to study with us via the PARTNERS programme.
As a world top 140 university (QS World University Rankings 2026), we inspire the minds of thousands of students from over 135 countries.
Our outstanding reputation for academic excellence and high graduate employability ensures we are a first-choice destination for students from around the world.
Picking your university is a major life decision.
From strong global rankings, to unrivalled student experience, discover just a few of the reasons for choosing Newcastle.
Our campus is based in the heart of Newcastle upon Tyne, one of the best student cities in the UK.
We're a community of 29,000 students and world-leading academics, and our facilities are state of the art.
Even if you haven't visited Newcastle before, there's always something here to surprise you.
Expect a warm welcome and wide variety of the food available, Newcastle is somewhere you'll be proud to call 'home'.
Newcastle University has a long history of research excellence.
We push boundaries to understand the world around us; our researchers using fresh perspectives to tackle the world’s most pressing problems.
Our focus on education for life ensures you will access the opportunities and support to learn.
Our research-informed teaching will give you the skills, knowledge and experience needed for your future career.
At Newcastle, you will join a global community.
We’re home to students from over 135 countries, and we’re globally connected through our 270,000 strong worldwide community of alumni.
Want to kickstart your research into studying with us?
Need all the key information in one place?
Get your free prospectus and start exploring the outstanding academic and student experience we offer.
Just select your level of study (below) to get your digital prospectus today.
Download our latest Undergraduate Prospectus.
Download our latest Postgraduate Guide.
Archaeology PhD
The city is more beautiful than described and the people are very kind.
Geospatial Surveying and Mapping BEng
My course focuses on land and marine surveying applications.
What sets the University apart in this area are the dedicated labs.
Computer Science BSc
To support my studies, I’ve been awarded a VCIS (Vice Chancellor International Scholarship) worth £4,000.
The rest of my fees are self-funded.
Mechanical and Systems Engineering PhD
Newcastle University really welcomes international students.
It’s clear that the institution strongly values inclusion and diversity.
English Literature with Creative Writing BA
The application process was straightforward and I felt very supported by the University throughout.
Dietetics MDiet
Newcastle feels like somewhere between a big city and a small town.
International Business Management BSc
I’m not sure what I want to do in the future, being able to study lots of different modules is giving me the chance to explore all the possibilities.
Law PhD
I am deeply passionate about the RED (Researcher Education and Development) programme - it has been an integral part of my PhD journey.
Media and Public Relations MA
There is so much I enjoy about my course: the modules, practical tasks and assignments.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate:
Start your journey of self-discovery at Newcastle.
Be inspired to think differently, empowered to challenge the things around you, and gain the confidence to push boundaries.
At Newcastle, you'll get a world-class education, and leave as a highly desirable graduate prepared for your career.
Most of our undergraduate degrees are three, four, or five years in length, depending on the subject you choose and whether you opt to undertake a study abroad or work placement as part of your studies.
The two most common Bachelors degree are:
You can also study for a Bachelor of Education (BEd), Bachelor of Engineering (BEng) and Bachelor of Laws (LLB).
An integrated four-year Undergraduate Masters has an additional fourth year at postgraduate level.
An undergraduate student is someone who is studying their first degree and has yet to graduate.
Undergraduate degrees, or Bachelor degrees, involve the in-depth study of one or more subjects.
They're the next step in higher education after A Levels.
A Postgraduate degree is a higher degree studied after an undergraduate degree.
Postgraduate study covers a wider range of qualifications.
We're committed to delivering an outstanding learning experience that equips our students for future success.
Find out more about studying with us at the links below.
Our high graduate employability and low cost of living mean a degree from Newcastle is a sound financial investment.
Find out more about tuition fees, student loans, and scholarships.
Everything you need to know about applying to study with us.
If you have the motivation, ability and potential to succeed at university we'd love to hear from you.
We offer accommodation to all new students.
Explore our accommodation options and find the place that’s right for you.
Join our network of successful and determined graduates who are accomplishing great things.
We provide a range of study options for international students in partnership with INTO.
These specialist programmes are designed for international students who want to study in the UK.
Sit back, relax, and take a life-changing virtual journey with us.
Explore our beautiful campus and city, find out about our courses and hear from our friendly students and staff.
Let’s get to know each other better.
For an outstanding education.
For great student life.
For the Newcastle University experience.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/degrees:
With more than 185 undergraduate degrees to choose from, it’s easy to find and pursue your passion.
Choose Newcastle University.
0 results
We offer a diverse and exciting range of undergraduate courses - from Music to Medicine, Architecture to Agriculture, English Literature to Engineering.
Browse our full range of subject areas.
Our International Study Centre offers International Foundation, International Year One and English language courses to prepare you for study.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/subjects:
Not sure which degree is right for you?
Browse our subject areas below to find out more about our diverse, exciting range of undergraduate courses.
With a range of academic disciplines to choose from, studying Engineering at Newcastle will put you alongside some of the greatest minds to have shaped the world.
A degree in Mathematics and Statistics from Newcastle will teach you problem-solving.
This develops your resilience enabling you to think analytically, creatively and strategically.
Newcastle and the North East of England has a vibrant financial sector.
Major employers are attracted to the strong talent pool and the specialist skills our accounting and finance students develop.
Live in the city, learn on the farm.
Our Agriculture courses investigate the processes involved from farm to fork.
Our highly-ranked Agriculture degrees cover everything from animal and plant biology, to best practice modern farming and agricultural management.
We discover the human past by piecing together clues from a variety of textual and material evidence.
Our degrees include plenty of opportunities for hands-on and practical work.
If you’re interested in your surroundings, how we conserve buildings, or you want to design buildings, our degrees could be for you.
We use design projects, historical examples and theoretical ideas to support your understanding of how architecture and cities can be developed.
Our courses will get you exploring in the field and experimenting in the lab.
You can choose from courses in traditional biology, plant science, zoology, biomedical science, pharmacology, marine science and psychology.
Graduate ready for the changing world of business.
Gain a global outlook and ‘no borders’ approach to leadership.
We offer a range of business and business-related programmes.
Study business at Newcastle and become a future-focused business leader ready to shape organisations and industries across the globe.
Our Chemistry degrees give you access to diverse fields of study, including the discovery of new anti-cancer drugs, development of battery technology, and nanoscience and nanoscale electronics.
Immerse yourself in studying the world of Ancient Greece and Rome, with the option to study Greek or Latin from beginners to advanced level.
Study in an exploratory and innovative environment.
Our courses meet the evolving requirements of industry, as well as addressing some of our key research areas such as cyber security and data science.
Study Dentistry at Newcastle and learn in some of the most modern and best-equipped facilities in the country.
Explore the forces shaping individual and collective choice.
Gain an advanced economic awareness and in-depth appreciation of how the world works.
If you're interested in understanding education from a variety of perspective - sociological, philosophical, historical, or political - our degree in Education will appeal to you.
English at Newcastle has a long and prestigious history.
Join a highly ranked school, with the freedom to shape your degree to your interests and the opportunities to reach your potential.
Our literature degrees give you the flexibility to shape your studies to suit your own interests.
Dive into works of literature from across the centuries.
Take up fantastic opportunities to develop your skills and ensure you are graduate career-ready.
Our Environmental Science course will have you exploring the beautiful and varied landscapes and habitats on our doorstep.
At Newcastle, you’ll develop and exhibit an exciting body of studio practice.
You'll acquire the professional, practical, intellectual and theoretical skills necessary to establish yourself as an artist.
If you have a passion for the Earth, its environment or the processes that shape it, our degrees are for you.
Develop your practical skills in our world-class facilities, while learning from international experts and local industry.
Explore the diversity of human history stretching from the birth of civilisation up to the present day in a region brimming with heritage and culture.
Gain a professionally accredited, qualifying law degree in our supportive and friendly student community.
Our Marine Biology and Marine Zoology courses will get you exploring out at sea and experimenting in the lab.
Marketing is a functional part of every business and sector, so your career opportunities are wide and varied.
You’ll graduate ready to succeed in this fast-paced industry.
A degree in Mathematics and Statistics from Newcastle will teach you problem solving.
Our innovative courses and state-of-the-art facilities will give you a thorough understanding of media and culture, enabling you to critically and creatively engage with the world around you.
Our degrees are renowned for an innovative curriculum and outstanding teaching, delivered by a Faculty with an exceptional reputation for medical research.
Our modern language degrees take a multidisciplinary approach to teaching, including cinema, culture, history, politics, society, linguistics and literature.
Study in one of the largest and most highly regarded music departments in the UK.
Our vibrant community of musicians, lecturers, and practitioners has a broad musical repertoire, which allows you the freedom to shape your degree.
You can chose from degrees in Nutrition, which explore the underlying sciences of food and human nutrition, to Dietetics, which enables you to progress to a registered Dietician.
Join Pharmacy at Newcastle and develop the scientific, technical and communication skills to enable you to confidently pursue a career in this highly rewarding field.
As a philosophy student at Newcastle, you'll explore diverse topics such as the nature of existence, truth, time, free will, logic and beauty.
Explore and understand the physical world, from sub-atomic particles, to the large-scale structure of the universe.
Our degrees combine theoretical study and practical laboratory work to ensure you reach your full potential.
Intellectually challenging and stimulating, our flexible Politics degrees can be tailored to your interests, with teaching by acknowledged experts.
Explore the study of people, the mind and behaviour on one of our professionally accredited degrees, where you’ll be inspired by world-leading research.
If you are curious about the social forces that shape people's everyday lives and keen to learn about cultures and societies different from your own, our Sociology degrees are for you.
Speech and Language Sciences at Newcastle University is renowned for its excellent teaching, state-of-the-art facilities and world-class research.
Newcastle has a long-standing reputation for sporting excellence.
Our degree equips you with a strong scientific foundation in sport and exercise related science and an understanding of how these relate to human performance and health.
Our Combined Honours degrees allow you to create a unique pathway across two or three subjects of your choice.
More than 20 subjects at Newcastle University can be studied as a Combined Honours undergraduate degree.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/applications-offers:
If you have the motivation, ability and potential to succeed at university, we'd love to hear from you.
Want to study for an undergraduate degree at Newcastle University?
Here's your step-by-step guide to getting here.
Interested in joining us from overseas?
We're here to guide you every step of the way.
All applications for undergraduate degrees are made online through UCAS.
Get a brief overview of how the application process works.
We accept a wide range of qualifications offered for entry to our degrees.
Find out more about our entry requirements.
Find out what happens after you have applied to study with us, and how we make decisions about your application.
Find out more about Newcastle University admissions policies and procedures, including our Admissions Policy.
We encourage you to contact and/or visit us before you apply so that you can find out more about the University's provision for disabled students.
We welcome applications from mature students.
Find out more about the advice and support we offer mature applicants.
Admissions tutors in all subject areas are happy to consider applicants who wish to defer entry by one year.
Find out more about Visa and Immigration, and English Language requirements.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/applications-offers/clearing:
Our Clearing vacancies have now been filled.
Although UCAS Clearing and Late Applications have now closed for 2025 entry , we’ll have places available on our undergraduate courses for high achieving students next year.
Discover more about starting your future at a Global Top 140 university (QS World University Rankings 2026).
Find out what you need to do if you’ve accepted an offer to study with us, starting September 2025.
Make your journey to Newcastle University as easy and stress-free as possible with our advice for:
You'll join a world-leading university and founding member of the Russell Group of world-class, research-intensive UK universities.
At Newcastle excellence comes as standard.
You'll learn from top academics and world-leading experts at the forefront of their disciplines and become part of our vibrant and diverse community.
You'll study at our beautiful, safe city-centre campus in the heart of Newcastle – an exciting city that's also one of the most affordable in the UK.
You’ll also never be far from home with direct flights to multiple destinations worldwide.
Enjoy fast road and rail links to cities and towns across the UK.​

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/applications-offers/clearing/international:
It’s time to start building your future with us.
Congratulations on choosing Newcastle University!
We are really looking forward to welcoming you to campus.
We want to make the transition from your home country to the UK as easy as possible.
Here is a simple guide to some of the things you need to do before you join us in September.
We want you to have a great experience living with us, that starts from the moment you apply for your accommodation.
To speak to one of our team:
For advice on how to apply; follow our step-by-step-guide .
All our residences have unique characters and offer affordable accommodation in safe, vibrant and diverse communities.
To study in the UK you will need a Student visa.
To apply for a visa you will need a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS).
This is a unique reference number that we will send you.
Worried about arriving in the UK?
Book our Meet and Greet service and we will be at Newcastle International Airport to welcome you when you land.
We will also arrange for a taxi or bus to your accommodation, or a drop-off location nearby, free of charge.
We will send you details of how to register online as a student with Newcastle University.
You will be asked to:
You may need to pay, or arrange to pay, your tuition fees to complete your registration.
To make packing easier, check out our suggestions about the personal and practical items you’ll need to bring with you .
Although all our accommodation is well-equipped, you will need bedding and some kitchen essentials.
However, you can easily pre-order what you need or buy it when you arrive.
As a Top 10 UK city for affordability (QS Best Student Cities 2025), Newcastle has a great range of shops offering quality goods at competitive prices.
Need more advice?
We asked our students for their top 10 suggestions.
Read what they had to say and where you can buy the things you need .
There is a lot to think about as you get ready to study in another country.
Below, we have handpicked some useful resources to help you.
Find out how we can help you prepare for studying in the UK; whether you're starting an undergraduate or postgraduate degree.
The UK has a publicly funded healthcare system called the National Health Service (NHS) Discover what services as an international student you'll have access to.
Opening a student bank account in the UK can be a great way to manage your spending and take advantage of financial offers for university students.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/applications-offers/clearing/why-newcastle:
Seek out life-changing experiences, forge lasting friendships and create memories for life with us.
Study, live and grow at our safe city-centre campus in the heart of Newcastle.
We believe in excellence: in our research; in our teaching; in our community.
A world top 140 university (QS World University Rankings 2026), we’re a founding member of the UK’s Russell Group of world-class, research-intensive universities.
A world top 60 university for sustainable development (QS World University Rankings: Sustainability 2025), we’re working to build a better world.
Ranked 15th in the UK for Global Research Power (Research Excellence Framework 2021), we’re pioneering discoveries in:
A richly inclusive, multicultural campus, we’re home to 29,000 students from over 135 countries.
Believe in excellence with us.
Make Newcastle yours.
Our Education for life 2030+ strategy will support you to achieve your learning and career ambitions.
Our world-leading research, industry connections and best teaching practice will be at the heart of your degree experience.
Our Careers Service will support you to shape your future, both while you’re studying with us and for up to three years after you graduate.
We’ll prepare you for life after your degree through work experience, study abroad, part-time and graduate job opportunities and much more.
You’ll be connected to a network of support through our Student Services hub .
Through dedicated teams you’ll access the expert advice, information and care you need, including:
You’ll live in a world top 40 student city that’s also one of the most affordable in the UK (QS Best Student Cities 2025).
Within walking distance of our safe and beautiful city-centre campus, you’ll find a city that’s friendly, exciting and cosmopolitan
You’ll explore Newcastle’s food scene, influenced by cultures from around the globe.
You’ll discover the:
You’ll relax in glorious green spaces, go shopping with friends, or experience Newcastle’s rich history.
There’s top-class sport to enjoy too; we’re home to Premier League Football Club Newcastle United.
Ready to study and grow with us?
We would love to welcome you to Newcastle University this September.
Explore our courses now to find your dream degree.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/applications-offers/clearing/advice-for-offer-holders:
We’re here to help you with advice and guidance following this year’s A Level, IB, SQA and BTEC results.
You’ll be able to check UCAS Hub from 08:00 on Thursday 14 August to see if we have confirmed your offer.
Your Clearing offer still stands regardless of final grades.
You do not need to contact us.
Once you have been confirmed at your firm choice, you will no longer be holding a place with us.
We therefore encourage you not to decline your place at your first-choice university , and to contact our Offer Holder Helpline on 0191 222 5100 .
Our Admissions team will then check availability on your chosen course.
If you are unhappy with your grade(s), the first thing you need to do is talk to your school or college .
They can advise what your options are and will submit a request to the exam board on your behalf, you cannot do this yourself.
You don't need to contact us to let us know you are appealing grades.
If your appeal is successful and you then meet the terms and conditions of your offer at Newcastle;
Before Wednesday 23 July:
If you are currently holding an offer and would like to defer to 2026, please contact us by raising an enquiry in the Apply to Newcastle Portal and we will be able to advise further.
After Wednesday 23 July:
If your place at Newcastle is confirmed, you will need to complete the online deferral form for this request to be considered.
Please note, if you obtained your place via Clearing, we will not normally be able to defer this offer.
If you’ve received a lower offer to study at Newcastle University via the PARTNERS Programme and would like to contact the team, you can send an enquiry or call 0191 208 6094 .
Our friendly advisers are ready to talk to you from:
You can also get in touch with the team through live chat throughout this period.
If you're calling within the UK , please call 0191 222 5102
If you're applying through Clearing, please be aware that our university accommodation will have limited availability.
While we can't guarantee a room, we're confident we'll still have some options.
It's important to note that these rooms might not be in your preferred location.
However, all our undergraduate accommodation is conveniently located a short distance from both campus and the city centre.
In the event our rooms become full, we'll connect you with trusted private student accommodation providers in the city.
We'll also provide support and advice to help you find suitable alternative housing.
You can apply for accommodation starting Monday 18 August at 10am .
We use an instant booking system, so rooms can be reserved right away.
To manage website traffic, a queuing system will be in place.
If you log in before 10am, you'll be placed in a queue and assigned a random slot when booking opens.
You'll see real-time availability on the accommodation portal.
If your preferred residence or room type isn't showing, it means it's already been booked.
The accommodation portal opens for Clearing students on Monday 18 August at 10am.
Before you can apply, your firm offer to study must be confirmed.
Please be aware that it can take up to 48 hours for your acceptance to register in our accommodation system.
We strongly advise you to accept your Clearing offer as soon as possible to ensure your record is updated promptly.
If you try to register an account with us and are unable to, it's likely because your record hasn't been updated yet.
In this case, please try again in 24 hours.
You’ll see live availability as soon as you log in to our accommodation system.
This means you can immediately reserve the room you want, without waiting for an application to be processed.
You're in control of your accommodation choice, but be aware that selections will be limited for Clearing applicants.
If you defer your studies to next year, you can cancel your accommodation contract up to your contract start date.
We recommend you accept the offer of accommodation to ensure you have a room in case you are unable to defer.
Once your deferral has been approved, contact the us urgently on +44 (0)191 222 5102 .
We will update your record accordingly and cancel your contractual liability.
For entry in 2026 you will need to make a new application and we will contact you by email when the online application is available.
If you will not be joining us to study in 2025, please contact us urgently on +44 (0)191 222 5102 and we will update your record and cancel any contractual liability.
Although our Helpline is now closed, we’re still here to support you.
If you have any further enquiries about admissions, you can contact us by email at ug-admissions@newcastle.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/applications-offers/application-advice:
Access resources and top tips on preparing for university.
Gain help with writing a stand-out personal statement and submit a successful application.
University might have been your goal for a long time or perhaps you’re only just thinking about pursuing higher education.
Whatever stage you’re at, it’s natural to feel a little overwhelmed about going to university.
Here, you’ll find detailed answers to your burning questions about every step of the application process.
For the tailored information you need, follow the link that best describes you below:
Many students find the transition from secondary education to college and sixth form quite jarring, but it doesn’t have to be.
Your A Levels are your first steps towards studying at degree level.
They will help equip you with the skills and knowledge you need to delve deeper into your chosen subject area.
Explore our resources for help to choose the right A Levels for you and get the grades you need for university.
Get top tips on how to choose the A Level subjects that are right for you.
Explore 40+ resources including quizzes and videos to help you revise and study successfully.
Student Ramita gives her experiences of life at Newcastle University.
When it comes to choosing a course, some students have a clear-cut idea of what they want to study, and where, long before they apply.
But if that’s not you, don’t worry, you’re not alone.
It’s normal to feel uncertain about taking the plunge and worried about making the right choices.
After all, university is perhaps the biggest investment you will ever make in you, and your career.
If you need a helping hand choosing what to study and where, explore our resources below.
Read our five step guide to how to choose a university that’s right for you.
Read our suggestions on when to apply for university.
Follow our simple five-step guide to choosing a university course.
Future students can receive a lower conditional offer to Newcastle University through PARTNERS.
The PARTNERS programme offers opportunities to help you make a successful application to Newcastle University.
So, you know where and what you want to study.
Now it’s time to make a start on your application.
The UCAS online application system opens in September for entry to university the following year.
Below, our resources will help you complete your application – from writing your personal statement to replying to your university offers and making your final choices.
Discover and ins and out of the university application process.
Each year, plenty of students apply late or through Clearing and find their perfect course and university.
Watch our video for answers to all your questions and concerns about choosing your offers through UCAS.
Find out how to write a standout personal statement.
We know there’s a lot of conflicting advice about whether university is worth it, so we’ve put together this free guide to answer your questions.
We offer a diverse and exciting range of undergraduate courses – from Agriculture to Architecture, Engineering to English Literature, and Medicine to Music.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/applications-offers/uk-students:
From choosing your course and completing an application, to finding accommodation and arriving at Freshers' Week.
This is your step-by-step guide to getting to Newcastle.
On-campus open days are held in June, September and November, and many students find these a helpful way to see what Newcastle has to offer.
You’ll do this on the UCAS website, using UCAS Hub.
Your school or college may have a ‘buzzword’ which is needed to register on the UCAS site.
If you are applying independently (not through a school or college) you won’t need to add a buzzword.
Once you’re registered, you can log in and start your application.
You can complete the application form in stages, so there is no need to complete it all at once.
Your application will need to include:
Universities will consider your entire application, not just exam results, so if you’re a mature student, life experience and employment will also be taken into consideration.
You’ll need to include the name and code of your chosen institutions.
The Newcastle University institution name is NEWC , and the code is N21 .
The following dates are applicable if you are applying to start university in 2025:
Other keys dates and info that may be helpful are shown on the UCAS website .
You can defer your university entry until the following year.
People tend to defer their entry to gain work experience, travel abroad or take part in GAP projects.
You’ll need to show on your UCAS application how you expect to spend the year.
You can apply for deferred entry while you are still at school or college, or you can request deferred entry after submitting your UCAS application.
You'll receive a welcome email from UCAS with details of how to use UCAS Hub to see how your application is progressing.
When you apply to us, we’ll also send an email to invite you to register for our Apply to Newcastle Portal where you will be able to:
Our admissions tutors will review your application, taking into account your personal statement, references, evidence of relevant skills and any special circumstances which may affect your application.
You'll be notified via email that there has been an update on your application, so you can log into UCAS and view any updates and offers.
If you applied by 29 January 2025 the deadline for universities to make their offers is 14 May 2025 – however your offer is likely to arrive before this date.
There are three possible outcomes:
If your application is unsuccessful and you have not been made any offers, don’t worry, you have the opportunity to apply through UCAS Extra (before 4 July), or apply though Clearing.
If you've used all five choices on your application, and you don’t receive any offers you could still find a place using UCAS Extra which opens 26 February 2025.
Once all of your offers have been added to UCAS you'll receive an email telling you this.
You can log back into UCAS Hub and reply to your offers.
You then select which university is your first choice (firm choice) and your second choice (insurance choice).
Consider your options carefully and ensure you respond by the specified dates.
Deadline dates for responding to your offers will also appear in UCAS Hub.
If you haven't secured a place at university by August 2025, you can also apply to Newcastle University through Clearing.
During Clearing, all universities with spaces available on their degree courses will advertise these vacancies – usually on their websites and on the UCAS website.
If you accept an offer from us, approximately 6 weeks before your course is due to start, we’ll ask you to provisionally register online.
You’ll receive an email with registration instructions, as well as information on how to access your Newcastle University email account.
Don’t worry if you can’t register online, as you can do this on campus when you arrive.
Once you’re here you can join The Big Welcome .
It’s run by our Students’ Union and has a full schedule of activities to help you settle in and make friends.
During this first week you’ll also need to complete your registration.
As part of the registration process you'll be asked to pay your tuition fees.
Home fee paying students can pay tuition fees in full to receive a 2% early payment discount.
Now the work really starts as you make Newcastle yours.
Explore the world-class education and great student experience waiting for you at Newcastle University.
Download our Undergraduate Prospectus.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/applications-offers/international:
From choosing your course and completing an application, to finding university accommodation and arriving at Welcome Week.
This is your step-by-step guide to getting to Newcastle University.
Choose a course from our range of subjects.
Have a look at the module information and check the entry and English language requirements.
We often hold events in many countries around the world, giving you another opportunity to meet us.
You can also explore the campus and surrounding area at any time through our virtual tours .
As the UK’s national admissions service, UCAS is for all students who wish to apply to a university or college in the UK.
You’ll need to apply on the UCAS website, using the UCAS Hub.
You can apply before getting your final exam results.
Universities will consider your entire application, not just exam results.
If you’re a mature student, life experience and employment will also be taken into consideration.
Students tend to defer their entry to gain work experience, travel abroad or take part in GAP projects.
You'll receive a welcome email from UCAS with details of how to use UCAS Hub system to see how your application is progressing.
When you apply to us, we will also send an email to invite you to register for our Apply to Newcastle Portal where you will be able to:
You'll be notified via email that there has been an update on your application, so you can log in to UCAS and view any updates and offers.
If you've used all five choices on your application, and you don’t receive any offers you could still find a place using UCAS Extra.
This opens on 26 February 2025, closing on 4 July 2025.
If you have your final exam results at this point, make sure you supply these results to your university choices.
If you haven't secured a place at university by July 2025, you can also apply to Newcastle University through Clearing by either applying to the University directly or through UCAS.
Find out more about how Clearing works at Newcastle
Once you’re here you can join our International Welcome Week.
We have lots of information about arriving from overseas in our section on Arriving in Newcastle .
International fee paying students can pay tuition fees in full to receive a 2% early payment discount.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/applications-offers/ucas:
All applications for undergraduate degrees are made online through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
Here’s a brief overview of how you apply to us through UCAS.
Once you’ve done your research and decided which courses you want to apply to, register to use the UCAS Hub .
Your school or college may have a UCAS buzzword, which you'll need to add when you register on UCAS Hub.
This makes it clear which school or college you are applying from.
If you are applying independently, or are applying from a school or college which is not registered to manage applications, you will still use the UCAS Hub.
You will not need a buzzword.
The online application system usually opens in September for entry to university the following year.
You can complete your application in stages and return to it at a later date to edit it, as long as it’s before the application deadline.
Your application should include:
You may get support with writing your application from a teacher or careers adviser.
For most courses, you should submit your application by 29 January 2025 if you’re applying to start university in 2025 or to defer your entry until the following year.
For Medicine and Dentistry, the deadline is 15 October 2024 for 2025 entry.
Head over to UCAS to start your application.
Find out what happens when you’ve submitted your application .
If you haven't already secured a place at university by August 2025, you can also apply to Newcastle University through Clearing.
This may be because you just missed the terms of an offer or you didn't apply by the UCAS deadline.
During Clearing, all universities with spaces available on their degree courses advertise these vacancies – usually on their websites and on the UCAS website .
Find out more about Clearing at Newcastle.
Our video guide talks you through the university application process in just three minutes.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/applications-offers/entry-requirements:
We will consider qualifications that are not listed on an individual basis.
Before you apply you should check the entry requirements for your chosen degree.
Some degrees have extra requirements such as work experience or a portfolio, others require you to have studied specific subjects at a certain level prior to entry.
Where this applies, we will make it clear in the degree information.
We will consider all qualifications that are of a suitable academic level.
Choosing your A-level (or equivalent) subjects carefully is really important – especially if you have aspirations to study at a leading university.
The Russell Group’s guide, Informed Choices , includes advice from admissions professionals on the best subject combinations for a wide range of university courses as well as the best choices for students who want to keep their options open.
We welcome applications from international students.
Before applying, you should read our information on applying for a student visa .
ABB at A level is typically the minimum required for entry to an Undergraduate course.
You can check the equivalent grades for the qualifications offered in your country.
Some degrees will have different entry requirements, so check specific entry requirements for each degree.
If you are not a native English speaker, you will need to show that you have an adequate knowledge of written and spoken English before you begin your studies.
We list English language requirements as part of the entry requirements for each degree.
If you do not meet the English language or academic requirements for your chosen degree, you might be able to take a course run by Newcastle University International Study .
This will bring you up to the required level.
Please contact Student Services for advice.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/applications-offers/entry-requirements/a-levels:
Find out more about what we're looking for from your A and AS levels, and what this means for your application.
We specify typical entry levels in terms of three grades (unless otherwise indicated, the grades refer to A level, including double awards).
We do not normally require applicants to have achieved more than three single-award A levels, or equivalent, for entry.
In most cases, we make conditional offers on achievement at the end of Year 13 or the final year at college.
If you are studying for a fourth A Level, we will take it into account as part of your overall application profile.
Most admissions tutors are happy for this to be either a contrasting or complementary subject.
If admissions tutors wish to recognise the additional achievement of a fourth A Level within a conditional offer, they may adjust their level of typical offer to make allowances for this.
If you have not taken four A Levels, however, you will not be disadvantaged in your application.
Different degrees have varying attitudes towards the inclusion of General Studies and Critical Thinking as a subject at A or AS level.
Some exclude General Studies and Critical Thinking from conditional offers.
Please check specific requirements for your chosen degree.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/applications-offers/decisions:
Find out what happens after you have applied to study with us, and what happens next.
After you've applied via UCAS for a course at Newcastle University, we will send an email to invite you to register for our Apply to Newcastle portal .
You'll be able to upload supporting documents, see how your application is progressing and make enquiries.
Entry to degrees is competitive.
Don't assume that you will receive an offer if you have achieved or are predicted to achieve the grades listed as typical entrance requirements.
Admissions tutors take into account your whole application , not just exam results.
This may include:
Our admissions tutors do not use the UCAS Tariff points system for expressing conditional offers, although they may use it to help them to assess the equivalence of different combinations of qualifications offered by candidates.
Achievement of an equivalent number of points does not necessarily mean that you have fulfilled the terms of the conditional offer.
When we receive your application, we consider it in accordance with the Admissions Policy .
At Newcastle University, we consider student achievements in the context of their circumstances when assessing all applications.
We aim to admit highly-motivated and enthusiastic students of all ages, and from all backgrounds.
You can find out about the types of offers from the UCAS website, including what it means to receive a Conditional or Unconditional Offer and when you are likely to receive a response to your application
You may receive a lower contextual offer that is up to three grades lower than the typical entry requirements via one of the following routes.
Please note:
Our Undergraduate Admissions Team will use certain contextual data from your UCAS form, alongside your application, to take into account challenges that you may have faced in your education and the potential effect this may have had on your qualifications.
You may be eligible to receive a lower contextual offer if the following applies to you.
These offers apply across all subject areas at the University.
You may be eligible for a contextual offer if you have experienced any time in care during your life.
It's important that you declare this on your UCAS form so that this can be taken into account as part of the admissions process.
You may be eligible for a contextual offer if you are an estranged person, who no longer has the support of your family due to a breakdown in the relationship which has led to ceased contact.
This might mean your biological, step or adoptive parents, or wider family members who have been responsible for supporting you in the past.
You may be eligible for a contextual offer if you are eligible for free school meals.
Find out why you should consider declaring your eligibility for free school meals on your UCAS form
If you attend an independent school but would have been eligible for Free School Meals at a state school you may also be eligible for a contextual offer.
This will be verified using data supplied by UCAS.
You are eligible for a contextual offer if you have sole or shared responsibility for the care of a relative because they are ill, have a disability, are experiencing mental distress, or are affected by substance abuse.
As above, it's important that you declare this on your UCAS form so that this can be taken into account as part of the admissions process.
If you are eligible, the Admissions Team may use this information in the following ways:
You don’t need to do anything differently, you just need to submit your UCAS form in the usual way by 6pm on 14 January 2026 (or 15 October 2025 for the MBBS and BDS programmes) and we will take your circumstances into account when considering your application.
Contextual information is used as part of a University-wide, holistic approach to fair admissions, however, does not guarantee that an offer will be made.
As part of Newcastle University’s longstanding commitment to widening participation, we also offer a number of programmes that allow eligible applicants to receive an alternative offer.
Successful completion of PARTNERS may result in an offer that is up to three A level grades lower (or equivalent) than the typical entry requirements.
Students complete PARTNERS in the year prior to starting University (usually year 13 ).
Find out more about PARTNERS .
We've expanded the criteria for PARTNERS supported entry for some of our courses for 2025 entry.
This is in response to the predicted national skills shortage by Government in these key economic subject areas.
Through PARTNERS, we aim to support all our applicants who have been affected by lost learning as a result of the pandemic.
Find out which courses are eligible .
Successful completion of ROP may result in an offer that is two A level grades lower (or equivalent) than the typical entry requirements.
Students must apply for RO in year 12 .
Find out more about Realising Opportunities .
Successful completion of Pathways to Medicine may result in an offer to Medicine & Surgery (A100) that is three A level grades lower (or equivalent) than the typical entry requirements.
Students must apply for Pathways to Medicine in year 12 .
Find out about Pathways to Medicine .
As one of the top universities for sport in the country, we nurture the talent of the elite athletes who come to study with us.
In recognition of this, we support promising athletes at the application stage.
If you are an athlete who competes at regional, national or international level in your sport, then we will consider this when assessing your application.
We require you to demonstrate previous and current sporting achievements.
You should also have a commitment to continue improving in that sport and representing the University.
Find out more about the opportunities that Performance Sport at Newcastle University can offer.
Most subject areas don't need applicants to attend an interview.
Where interviews are required, it is specified on the specific degree pages.
Some subject areas may conduct informal interviews as part of an Offer Holder Day.
Degree programmes that require an interview (and approximate interview dates where available) include:
Applicants may be invited to interview directly via email.
If you receive an offer to study at Newcastle University, you will be invited to campus.
During these events, you can:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/applications-offers/access-schemes:
As part of Newcastle University’s long-standing commitment to widening participation, we also offer a number of programmes that allow eligible applicants to receive support with their application and an alternative offer.
At Newcastle, our aim is to encourage and support the brightest and best students to succeed, regardless of background.
We have a longstanding commitment to widening participation and equality of opportunity not only in our region, but across the UK.
Find out more about widening participation.
The PARTNERS Programme is open to all UK students who fulfil widening participation eligibility criteria .
If you are eligible and choose to become a PARTNERS student, you will receive an offer which is three grades lower than the typical offer for the course to which you have applied, and a programme of support from application to graduation and beyond.
You must make Newcastle your firm choice (CF) through UCAS when you make your final decisions to take advantage of the PARTNERS offer, which includes the lower grades plus completion of the PARTNERS Summer School.
Find out if you’re eligible and how to apply on the PARTNERS Programme website.
Realising Opportunities (RO) students follow a programme which ensures they benefit from increased information, advice and access to some of the country’s leading research intensive universities.
RO students applying to Newcastle University receive an offer that is two grades lower than the typical offer.
Find out more about the Realising Opportunities Programme .
If you have taken part in Pathways to Law or Pathways to Medicine at Newcastle University, you will be eligible for a reduced offer of up to two grades.
You should indicate which programme you took part in on your UCAS application.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/partners:
Receive a lower offer, attend a free Academic Summer School and access dedicated support from application to enrolment
Applications for 2026 entry will open in September 2025
You can apply to any course at Newcastle through PARTNERS.
Research your course options here.
The PARTNERS contextual offer is up to three A level grades (or equivalent) lower than the typical offer.
From application to registration, there's a diverse range of events available via the PARTNERS Programme to support your journey to Newcastle University.
Through PARTNERS, you will attend a subject-specific summer school that prepares you for university life.
There are loads of benefits to completing PARTNERS.
You’ll experience student life earlier than non-PARTNERS students and get a head start on higher education, by completing the PARTNERS Academic Summer School and supplementary events.
There’s also lots of support available while you’re at University, such as Student Ambassador work experience, the Careers Insights programme and potential financial support.
Find out more about the benefits of taking part.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/applications-offers/policies:
Find out more about Newcastle University admissions policies and procedures.
Our Admissions Policy (PDF: 116 KB) provides information about how decisions about admitting applicants to undergraduate and postgraduate programmes at Newcastle are made.
We endeavour to deal with every application fairly and within a reasonable timescale.
Occasionally, an applicant may feel that this has not been the case, and we encourage anyone who is dissatisfied to contact us as soon as possible.
Most issues can be resolved quickly and informally.
If you are still not satisfied, the Admissions Complaints and Appeals Policy (PDF: 97 KB) explains how and when complaints about the administration of our admissions policies and procedures, or appeals against the decision of an admissions selector, may be made.
If you have a criminal conviction, you may be anxious that it will affect your chances of gaining a place at the University.
Our Criminal Convictions Policy (PDF: 88 KB) explains which convictions need to be considered and the process followed by the University to decide whether someone with a relevant conviction may be admitted.
The University welcomes applications from people of all ages, but we must recognise a special duty of care towards students who will be under 18 when they begin their studies and are legally still children.
Our Under-18s Policy (PDF: 146 KB) explains how we prepare for the admission of students who will still be under 18.
We are committed to ensuring that all students registered with the University, at any of its locations, have the opportunity to achieve optimum academic outcomes from their studies.
As part of our Office for Students registration, we are required to detail this commitment via a Student Protection Plan
Recognition of prior learning (RPL) can allow you to convert existing relevant university-level knowledge, skills and experience into credits towards a qualification.
The School of Medicine Admissions Policy (PDF: 406KB) is intended to ensure that the process of student selection is free from discrimination of any kind.
It is based on guidelines from the Medical Schools Council produced in consultation with the Commission for Racial Equality.
The purpose of the English Language Policy is to set out the University’s requirements and standards for evaluating the English language ability of all its applicants.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/applications-offers/disabilities:
We encourage you to contact and/or visit us before you apply so that you can find out more about the University's provision for students with disabilities.
We hold three University Open Days every year.
If you tell us when booking, we can arrange for you to meet with members of the Disability Support team in our Student Wellbeing Service.
We will also organise any support you might need for the day.
We are committed to providing an accessible environment for our students.
We can provide course information in alternative formats such as large print, Braille and audiotape.
Contact us to request alternative formats .
We recommend that you disclose any information relating to your disability or medical condition in your UCAS application.
This will allow us to contact you with more information on how we can support you.
We can also organise for you to to meet with a member of the right team.
Your application will receive an acknowledgement e-mail that includes a secure link to a webform if you wish to provide more information about your support needs.
This is submitted direct to Student Wellbeing and will not be shared without your agreement.
Any information you choose to submit will help us to support you on admission to the University.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/study/student-life/support-wellbeing/mature:
We welcome applications from mature students, aged 21 or over at the time of entry.
Mature students apply through UCAS .
We will carefully consider your application on its individual merits, taking into account your:
We also consider your ability to undertake academic study and to succeed and benefit from your chosen course.
Increasing numbers of people attend university to develop their careers, learn new skills or to enjoy a stimulating course of study.
We want to encourage more.
Our mature students come from diverse professions.
They also include those who have started a degree after raising a family.
They may have left school with no formal qualifications or see a degree as a rewarding challenge during retirement.
Before applying to Newcastle University you may want to come and visit us.
There is no better way to get a feel for Newcastle University than to come and visit our campus in the heart of the city.
Find out more about our three Open Days each year and our Campus Tours.
Starting university after a break in your studies can sometimes be very daunting.
Mature students have particular needs and concerns - we understand this.
Once you're a student at Newcastle University, you can access free and confidential support for mature students.
You will also have access to a student finance adviser who can provide free, impartial advice, including advice on childcare funding for UK and international students .
Get in touch with our designated member of staff who is a first point of contact for mature students:
Sam Mead Student Recruitment Team Email: sam.mead@newcastle.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/applications-offers/deferred-entry:
Some students choose to gain wider experience and increased maturity by taking a year out.
This can be used to:
Show on your UCAS application how you expect to spend the year.
You may also apply after you receive your exam results.
If you do this, make sure that you are contactable during the year out.
You may need to accept or decline offers and answer any queries relating to your application.
Some courses at Newcastle will allow you to defer after receiving your results and accepting your place at Newcastle.
This is agreed on a course-by-course basis.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/fees-funding:
To help finance your studies, the University offers a generous range of scholarships.
Find information about our tuition fees and costs, including fee discounts, additional costs, and study abroad and placement years.
We invest millions of pounds in financial support for students who choose to come and study here.
Find out about the scholarships and bursaries offered by Newcastle University.
Find out about the government loans available to help you study, including tuition fee loans, living cost loans and grants, and loan repayments.
Find out more about fees and funding information for international students.
Find information about typical living costs for a student in Newcastle, including a sample monthly budget.
More information about fees, funding, and finance - including information about how to pay your tuition fees.
The Student Advice Centre offers support in all areas of finance that can affect you in your life as a university student.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/fees-funding/scholarships-bursaries:
Each year, we invest in scholarship schemes to support new eligible undergraduate students to study with us .
From partial to full awards, subject-specific scholarships, and external funding opportunities, we’ll guide you through the options available for you to consider.
Some of the main scholarship schemes available:
We’re proud to offer a range of scholarships to help international and EU students fund their studies.
Below are our main schemes:
Some of Faculties and Schools offer scholarships or bursaries for specific subject areas or degrees.
If you’ve played sport at a regional, national, or international standard within the last 12 months, you could be eligible for up to £5,000 worth of funding.
A number of sources for extra financial help are available for students at Newcastle University:
If you're a current student , you can find further information or support on the following pages:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/fees-funding/scholarships-bursaries/vc-excellence:
We are pleased to offer 30 Vice-Chancellor’s Excellence Scholarship awards for outstanding applicants who apply for full-time undergraduate study at Newcastle University.
Up to 50% off tuition fees
September 2026 for the full duration of the degree programme
Newcastle University
To be considered for scholarships applicants must:
Eligible candidates will be assessed according to evidence of academic ability, evidence of commitment to studies and quality of application.
Further details, including a list of non-eligible courses, can be found in the Vice-Chancellor's Excellence Scholarships Regulations 2026-27 (PDF: 2.8MB) .
You apply for this scholarship online separately to your course.
Applications must be submitted through the University's Apply to Newcastle Portal under the 'scholarships applications' section.
You must already hold an offer to study at the University to apply.
If you apply before midnight UK time on the first closing date we aim to let you know the outcome within 4 weeks after that closing date.
If you apply after the first but before the second closing date then you will get your result 4 – 6 weeks after the second closing date.
Email: scholarship.applications@newcastle.ac.uk
Tel: +44 191 208 8107 | +44 191 208 5537

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/fees-funding/scholarships-bursaries/vc-undergraduate-eu:
25% of the international fee.
September 2026 for the duration of your course.
Awards will be allocated automatically throughout the 2025/26 academic year for 2026/27 entry to Newcastle University.
Newcastle University is pleased to offer a large number of partial EU Scholarships to assist students domiciled in the EU to study an undergraduate degree.
In response to the challenges posed by the global economic situation, we are committed to ensuring that talented students, regardless of their financial circumstances, can access the world-class education and opportunities we offer.
That’s why we’ve increased our Vice Chancellor EU scholarship offering to cover 25% of the international fee.
Our scholarships are more than just financial support—they’re a gateway to academic and personal growth.
With this support, students can focus on excelling in their studies and grow into the leader they aspire to be.
We believe in empowering our students to create a better future, and our expanded scholarships reflect that belief.
To be considered for awards applicants must:
Applicants will be considered automatically for awards based on their degree programme application to study at Newcastle University.
Some programme exclusions apply.
Further details can be found in the Vice-Chancellor’s EU Scholarship Regulations 2026-27 (PDF: 3.4MB)
Eligible candidates will be considered automatically for a Vice-Chancellor’s EU Scholarship award as part of their academic course application.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/fees-funding/scholarships-bursaries/vc-international:
Scholarships of £7,000 towards tuition fees are available for to support international students to study an undergraduate degree.
£7,000 tuition fee awards
Awards will be allocated throughout the academic year before the start of the student’s degree.
Newcastle University is pleased to offer partial Vice-Chancellor’s International Scholarships to assist international students to study an undergraduate degree.
*Applicants domiciled in Turkey can only be considered if they are self-funding their studies.
Eligible candidates will be assessed as part of their academic application.
Further details, including a list of non-eligible courses, can be found in the Vice-Chancellor's International Scholarships Undergraduate Regulations (PDF: 3.4MB)
Eligible candidates will automatically be considered for a Vice-Chancellor’s International Scholarship as part of their academic course application.
Telephone: +44 191 208 5537/8107

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/fees-funding/scholarships-bursaries/international-family-discounts:
We offer partial discounts to encourage relatives of our current international students, and past international graduates, to pursue their studies with us.
10% of the tuition fee per year.
Duration of the degree programme.
This discount is only available to students studying at the Newcastle city campus.
The University offers partial discounts to close relatives (husband, wife, brother, sister, mother, father, son or daughter) of students and graduates, who have been assessed as International for fees purposes, and who wish to pursue their studies at Newcastle University in 2025-26 or are currently studying here.
Students may only apply for a discount if they are registered as a student at the University or after they have been offered a place to study on their chosen degree programme, and have been assessed as International for fees purposes.
Where two family members are intending to start their studies in any academic year or are currently studying at the University, one member will be eligible to apply for the International Family Discount (IFD).
Please complete the International Family Discount application form in accordance with the International Family Discount Regulations (PDF: 56KB).
Student Wellbeing Financial Support Newcastle University King's Gate Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 7RU United Kingdom Telephone: +44 (0) 191 208 5537 Email: scholarship.applications@ncl.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/fees-funding/scholarships-bursaries/opportunity-scholarships:
We offer Opportunity Scholarships to eligible UK/EU domiciled students on the basis of household income.
One of the biggest barriers to studying for a degree is financial.
The Opportunity Scholarship is our commitment to ensuring that ability, not circumstance, is what matters; enabling highly motivated, enthusiastic students from all backgrounds to fully enjoy a Newcastle University education.
These means-tested scholarships help talented students to focus more on their studies, giving them the financial security to apply for summer internships or take up extra-curricular activities that may have been out of reach.
Students find that the extra support gives them peace of mind and lifted a weight off their shoulders, allowing them to budget more strategically.
Receiving this extra financial support has allowed many students to play sports along with their peers, concentrate more on their studies, be included in social and study trips, and think seriously about further education.
University is a chance to not only learn new things but also meet new people, and Opportunity Scholarship students said that the financial support has helped them to make friends and meet new people.
The Undergraduate Opportunity Scholarship has supported Callum in playing for the Law football team, contributing to match and referee fees.
Miriam, a Modern Languages student, thinks scholarships make university accessible for everyone.
You don't need to apply for this scholarship.
We will award it automatically to eligible UK and EU students based on their UCAS application and income assessed by Student Finance England or an equivalent assessment body.
If you're studying on a course that includes a compulsory year abroad or placement year, you will receive a fee discount.
You will not be entitled to an Opportunity Scholarship for that year.
The Office for Students states that students already holding the equivalent of an honours degree or higher level qualification cannot be considered for bursaries or scholarships through our Access Agreement.
Due to Government guidelines, NHS funded students receiving tuition fee grants cannot be considered for bursaries or scholarships through our Access Agreement in the academic year they receive NHS funding.
Further information on eligibility criteria and payment dates for UK and EU students can be found on our Student Financial Support pages.
Many thanks to the alumni and friends of Newcastle University who support these Opportunity Scholarships.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/fees-funding/scholarships-bursaries/subject-scholarships:
A number of subjects and degrees offer financial support or prizes to students.
Information on specific eligibility criteria is available below.
There are a range of scholarships available for undergraduate Agriculture students.
Find out full details of available scholarships
There are a range of scholarships available for undergraduate Chemical Engineering students.
Newcastle University Development Trust with funds donated by the family of James Skillington, to honour his memory after he died from Leukaemia whilst studying Chemistry at Newcastle University.
1
£1,000 per year for three years of study.
The scholarship is available to a student studying Chemistry at the University.
Preference will be given to home students, ordinarily based in the UK.
Applications will be judged on academic and financial grounds.
Details of how to apply for 2025 scholarships will be available soon.
You will be informed by the Student Financial Support Team the Autumn term of the outcome of your application.
All scholarship recipients are asked to provide an introductory profile when they first receive the award, and an annual update report to inform their donor of their progress.
You will be contacted to provide these reports with plenty of notice.
Recipients are encouraged to be available to meet the donors and participate in the promotion of student support activity at Newcastle University if requested.
Queries should be directed to NU Advancement: advancementscholarships@newcastle.ac.uk
There are a range of scholarships available for undergraduate Civil Engineering students.
There are a range of scholarships available for undergraduate Computing students.
There are a range of scholarships available for undergraduate Electrical and Electronic Engineering students.
There are a range of scholarships available for undergraduate Geospatial Surveying, Mapping and GIS students.
There are a range of scholarships available for undergraduate Marine Technology students.
There are a range of scholarships available for undergraduate Mathematics, Statistics and Physics students.
There are a range of scholarships available for undergraduate Mechanical Engineering students.
Name of Scholarship: The Houston Family Scholarship 2025-26
Provided by : The Houston Family Endowment Fund
Number of awards available : 2
Scholarship Amount: £ 2 , 0 00 per year for duration of study
Eligibility Criteria
Two scholarships of £2,000 each per year for all years of study are available to undergraduate students commencing their degree in September 2025.
To be eligible for this award you must be:
Preference will be given for one female and one male applicant.
Applications from students from a widening participation background are encouraged.
How to apply
Notice of Award
You will be informed by the Student Financial Support Team by the end of the Autumn term if you are successful in receiving this scholarship.
Conditions of scholarship
The Charles Letts Memorial Fund Committee, via the Advancement Office , in memory of Charles Letts.
The scholarships offer funding for students for whom finance is a barrier to their learning.
5
£2,000 per year for your first 3 years of study.
The fund supports students coming to study at Newcastle University via the PARTNERS Programme (or a similar access scheme/supported entry route) in STEMM subjects:
Scholarships are available for those in Year 1 of an undergraduate STEMM degree at Newcastle University, commencing their degree in September 2025.
To be eligible for this award, you must be:
You must also demonstrate in your application:
You will be informed by advancementscholarships@ncl.ac.uk or the Student Financial Support Team by the end of the Autumn term if you were successful in receiving the scholarship.
Queries should be directed to NU Advancement: advancementscholarships@ncl.ac.uk
Name of Scholarship: Scott-Briggs Bursary
Provided by: Professor Paul Dent (BSc Biochemistry 1988).
Number of awards available : 1
Scholarship Amount: £1,000 for 1 year of study only.
This scholarship is available to undergraduate students from the North East , commencing their degree programme at Newcastle University in either the:
How to Apply
The scholarship will be awarded to one student who comes from a WP background.
Applications will be judged on academic potential, enthusiasm, and aptitude for the chosen programme of study.
To be eligible for this award, you must be a Year 1 undergraduate home student in either the Schools of:
Preference will be given to students who lived in one of the following locations on application to Newcastle University:
Details of how to apply for 2025 scholarship will be available soon.
You will be informed by the Student Financial Support Team by the end of the Autumn Term of the outcome of your application.
Name of Scholarship: The Women’s Giving Circle Scholarship
Provided by : The Women’s Giving Circle is a network of successful alumnae and friends of Newcastle University .
They are passionate about supporting a new generation of female leaders, regardless of background .
The Women’s Giving Circle Scholarship is designed to:
Number of awards available : 3
Scholarship Amount: £2,000 per year for your first 3 years of study.
Scholarships are available to female students in Year 1 of an undergraduate degree programme at Newcastle University, where female students are underrepresented , commencing their degree in September 2025 .
Students must have entered Newcastle University via the PARTNERS Programme (or similar access scheme/supported entry route) .
Scholarships will be awarded to female undergraduate students who come from a widening participation background and/or have low household incomes .
No application is necessary.
Amec Legacy and Futures Fund Bursary 24/25
Provided by
Community Foundation Tyne and Wear and Northumberland
Details
Bursaries are available to undergraduate students in the Engineering degree programmes: Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering and Civil Engineering.
Awards of £2,000 may be made for one year, with the option of reapplying for successive years.
Application is by competitive process.
The fund awards bursaries to all and seeks to obtain a diverse balance of bursary recipients.
We particularly welcome applications from female students from black and minoritised ethnic communities who are also currently under-represented in the bursary awards.
Eligibility
To be eligible for this award you must:
Online applications must be submitted no later than 24 January 2025 .
Applicants should use the full word count available to state their case for support.
Recipients are required to provide proof of enrolment, a supporting statement from their tutor and an annual update on their progress.
They should also be available to meet the fund advisor if requested.
Application via online application form
Queries should be directed to:
Elaine Holdsworth, Community Foundation 0191 222 0945
eh@communityfoundation.org.uk
Privacy Policy
The Community Foundation uses personal data to build financial and volunteer support, to send communications, to administer donations, grants, volunteering and membership, as well as other activities which promote our aims and objectives.
We take great care in how we do this and full details of how we process your data are available in our privacy policy .
We are proud to offer young people of diverse ethnic heritage the opportunity to enter the architectural industry.
The student on this scheme will have their fees waived for their three-year undergraduate study.
They will also be provided with financial support.
Following receipt of an offer to study architecture at Newcastle University, students will be invited to complete an application form for submission to APLTeaching@newcastle.ac.uk .
The deadline for applications is 23rd May 2025 .
Details for 2025 entry:
Building Futures Scholarship Terms & Conditions
This university scholarship is only possible thanks to the generosity of our alumni who have contributed financially to this university scholarship.
With thanks to:
Name of scholarship
Mary Spencer Bursary 2025-26 Provided by
This bursary is in loving memory of a dear mother, grandmother, and History graduate from King’s College Durham (now Newcastle University).
Mary Spencer was a dedicated, creative teacher of many subjects, including history, for almost fifty years.
As the wife of an RAF Officer, she taught throughout the UK, Zimbabwe, Cyprus, and Libya.
Number of awards available
1 Scholarship amount
£1,500 across 1 year of study only.
Eligibility criteria
A scholarship is available for those in Year 3 of a BA History undergraduate degree programme at Newcastle University.
Notice of award
You will be informed by the Student Financial Support Team by the end of the Autumn term of the outcome of your application.
Contact us
Please direct all queries to NU Advancement: advancementscholarships@ncl.ac.uk
£10,000, to support students from lower socioeconomic backgrounds with the day-to-day costs of university life.
Currently unlimited in year one, if students meet the eligibility.
This is under review and is subject to change.
September 2025, split across four years of the degree.
The Flying Start financial bursary is aimed at supporting students from lower socioeconomic backgrounds with the day-to-day costs of university life, to support our students to be the best they can be.
PwC
To be eligible for these this bursary you must:
If you believe you’re eligible for the financial bursary and you apply for the Flying Start Accounting programme, then we’ll be in touch with you during the application process to outline next steps.
For further information, please contact: nubs.recruitment@newcastle.ac.uk
Four £3,000 scholarships are available to new undergraduate students entering a degree offered by Newcastle University’s International Centre for Music Studies in September 2023.
We will award the music scholarship in the first year of study and pay it in two equal installments, the first in December 2023 and the second in April 2024.
To be considered for a scholarship, you must hold an offer of admission for
You must have also attended an Interview Day (academic interview and audition), and be a new UK, EU or international student commencing your studies in 2023.
Successful candidates may not be in receipt of other funding from the University.
You do not need to apply for these scholarships.
Eligible candidates will automatically be considered for a scholarship on the basis of their academic merit, musical track record and performance at an Interview Day.
Successful candidates will be notified in April 2023 and must firm accept our offer to receive the scholarship.
If you have any queries about the music scholarships or your eligibility for an award, please contact us by emailing musicadmissions@ncl.ac.uk .
Visit Newcastle Law School to find information about the following scholarships:
Kindly supported by the estate of the late Dianne and Brian Arkley
One scholarship is available each year to a Medicine and Surgery MB BS programme student.
The award amount is £1,000 in stages one to four, and £2,000 in stage five.
No application is necessary .
The successful candidate will be contacted by email or the Student Financial Support Team by the end of the Autumn term if you were successful in receiving the scholarship.
All scholarship recipients are asked to provide:
Recipients are encouraged to:
Queries should be directed to: advancementscholarships@newcastle.ac.uk / 0191 208 8745
Kindly supported by the Geoffrey Harold Greatrex Charitable Incorporated Organisation
Four scholarships are available each year to Medical students entering Newcastle University.
The award amount is £1,000 per year for stages one to five.
The successful candidate will be contacted by email or the Student Financial Support Team by the end of the Autumn term if you were successful in receiving the scholarship.
Recipients are encouraged to:
Mr Adrian Allan, who sadly passed away in 2023.
This bursary has been generously donated to honour members of the Hindhaugh family who studied for their medical degrees at the University.
Recognising that the Hindhaugh family were both in business and in medicine associated with Newcastle upon Tyne, first preference will be given to students whose families are from the region.
£2,000 across 1 year of study only.
The scholarship is available to a student in their final year (Year 5) of the Medicine and Surgery MB BS undergraduate degree programme at Newcastle University.
Details of how to apply to 2025 scholarships will be available soon.
You will be informed by the Student Financial Support Team by the end of the Autumn term of the outcome of your application
This award has been agreed following a donation to Newcastle Medical School, made by the family of Dr Marian Tuszewski Troy and in remembrance of R.
B.
Green who supported Dr Troy to enter Newcastle Medical School at the end of WW2.
The award is intended to support a promising medical student who might otherwise struggle to meet the costs associated with the MB BS programme.
We encourage students from all nationalities to apply, but preference will be given to qualifying students from Poland or Eastern Europe.
£1,000 across 1 year of study only.
The scholarship is available for a student in Year 1 of the undergraduate Medicine and Surgery MB BS programme at Newcastle University.
Preference will be given to qualifying students with a Polish or Eastern European heritage.
The Connor King Foundation.
The scholarship was established in memory of Connor King, who tragically passed away while in Stage 3 of his Dental Surgery BDS degree at Newcastle’s School of Dental Sciences.
He was a very enthusiastic young man, with a kind heart and passion for helping those less fortunate than himself.
The Foundation aims to:
Two scholarships are available each year to Dental Surgery BDS students entering Newcastle University.
Alumni and friends of Newcastle University, in memory of Emeritus Professor Jimmy Steele CBE
Two scholarships are available to students entering year 1 on the Dental Surgery BDS degree programme in the School of Dental Sciences.
Scholarships are for £1,000 per annum each for stages 1 to 4.
The Jimmy Steele Scholarship was set up to keep Jimmy’s name alive in the Dental School.
He was a much loved head of school and professor and if he was still alive, students would have had a taste of his distinctive and entertaining teaching style.
Since his death from a brain tumour in 2017, Newcastle University along with Jimmy’s family and friends have been raising money to help students who might have financial stress in accessing a degree.
The hope is that the support will go a little way to smoothing a pathway to becoming a great dentist!
Queries should be directed to advancementscholarships@newcastle.ac.uk / 0191 208 8745
Patch Fund at the Community Foundation Tyne & Wear and Northumberland.
The award is from a generous anonymous benefactor to assist students with their Dental studies who are:
Up to five scholarships are available to students in Year 1 of the undergraduate Dental Surgery BDS programme at Newcastle University, commencing their degree in September 2025.
The award amount is £1,000 per year for your first four years of undergraduate study.
Estate of Alan Worsley
Up to 2
£5,000
Undergraduate Pharmacy student in stages 1, 2 or 3 from a WP background.
For everything you need to know about WP in the School of Pharmacy, please see this webpage: https://www.ncl.ac.uk/pharmacy/engagement/widening-participation/
The purpose of the prize is to help enable an international exchange for a student to a partner university or allow for a period of research study in Newcastle University with colleagues in the School of Pharmacy.
Applications should be submitted via the online application form: https://forms.cloud.microsoft/e/XheGcVV2tt
Applications must be received no later than 16 November 2025
You will be informed by the School of Pharmacy in January 2026 of the outcome of your application.
All scholarship recipients are asked to provide an introductory profile when they first receive the award, and an update report on completion of their period of exchange or study.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/sport/performance/scholarships:
Committed athletes with a track record of achievement can win a sports scholarship or funding.
We award sports scholarships and funding every year to students who:
If your sport isn't listed on the sports scholarship application, or if you've reached representative honours within the last 12 months and need support, fill in the form.
Please wait until you know your competition dates before applying.
Applications for sports funding are open all year round.
To be eligible for a scholarship, you must compete in one of the following Performance Clubs:
If your sport is not listed above, you can still apply for sports funding.
See Sports funding below to find out more.
To be a Sports Scholar , you must:
National/International standard within the last 12 months.
Students should be part of a National Governing Body Performance Squad or equivalent.
Up to £5000
If you’re a North American (NA) athlete applying to study at Master’s level, you could go for our NA Athlete Scholarship.
Successful applicants will receive a fee reduction.
You also get access to all the support services listed in the table above.
If your sport isn’t listed, or you’ve reached representative honours within the last 12 months and need support, fill in the form.
If you’ve been selected for higher representative honours, wait until you know your competition dates before applying.
If you’re a Newcastle University student registered with a disability, you could go for our Disability Sports Scholarship.
You’ll need to be currently representing the University, or performing at a regional/national level for an external club.
Make sure you fill in the correct application form.
We consider all applications for Sports Scholarship and Sports Funding.
Awards are at the discretion of the Performance Sport Team.
For more information on scholarships and funding, get in touch with the Performance Sport Team:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/fees-funding/scholarships-bursaries/st-nicholas:
This scholarship supports students coming to Newcastle University from the North East who are care-experienced.
Provided by: Edward Long (BA History, 1979)
Number of awards available : 5
Scholarship Amount: £2,000 per year for three years of study
Five scholarships of £2,000 per year for three years of study are available undergraduate Home students from the North East from a care-experienced background.
Students can be on any undergraduate degree programme commencing their first year of study in September 2025.
At Newcastle University, we deem a care-experienced young person as someone who has spent any time in care during their life.
This could include any of the following experiences:
Details of how to apply for the 2025 scholarship will be available soon.
You will be informed by the Student Financial Support Team at the end of the Autumn term of the outcome of your application.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/fees-funding/scholarships-bursaries/sanctuary:
The scholarships have been designed to enable students from asylum-seeker backgrounds to progress to higher level study.
Newcastle University is committed to social justice.
We are pleased to offer Sanctuary Scholarships - full tuition fee support and a bursary for living costs for applicants wanting to study at the University.
Full tuition fees and living expenses.
3
Commences September 2025 for the full duration of the student’s degree programme.
Applications for 2025 entry are now closed.
No further applications for 2025 entry will be considered.
1.The following categories of applicants can apply under this scheme:
a.
asylum seekers
b.
children of asylum seekers and unaccompanied asylum-seeking children (eg children migrants under 18)*
c.
applicants with refugee status (ineligible for Student Finance government funding)
* Applicants who have been granted Humanitarian Protection, Discretionary Leave to Remain as a result of an application for asylum, or the children of a parent in this position, will also be considered.
2.
Applicants must be living in the UK at the time that they apply for consideration under the scheme.
Priority will be given to applicants from the North East of England (Tyne and Wear, County Durham, Northumberland, Cleveland and North Cumbria).
You can search for other sanctuary scholarships near you using the displaced student’s portal .
3.
Applicants must hold an offer from Newcastle University to be considered for a Sanctuary Scholarship.
See UCAS guidance on how to apply for undergraduate study and the University’s application guide for postgraduate study.
Priority will be given to those who have not had the opportunity to access higher education to date.
Applicants who hold qualifications from outside the UK are welcome to use our International Webpages.
Start by Selecting your country to find the typical Undergraduate and Postgraduate entry requirements before you apply to Newcastle.
Should you have any further questions about our entry requirements, please do get in touch:
4.
Applicants must meet the English language criteria for their course or have relevant qualifications to indicate their English language competency.
Find out more about English language support.
Personal circumstances will be considered if there is good reason for criterion 3 or 4 not being met.
5.
Applicants must be unable to access mainstream funding, for example from Student Finance England or a local authority grant.
These criteria have been discussed and agreed with the Asylum and Migration Justice Forum.
Sanctuary Scholarship applications will be considered from students applying to the following programmes:
The following applicants are not eligible to apply for Sanctuary Scholarship funding:
For more information about the scheme, please see the Sanctuary Scholarship regulations (PDF: 209 KB).
Applications for the Sanctuary Scholarship must be made using our online form .
Applicants will be required to upload proof of their immigration status and a reference.
The reference should be from someone who has known the applicant for a significant period of time and who is aware of their personal circumstances.
The reference letter is an important part of the selection process and must address the below points, as well as any other information you believe should be taken into consideration by the selection panel;
Applications will only be considered if they are accompanied by a reference that is signed, dated, and on letterhead.
Please read the application guidance (PDF: 107 KB) carefully, before completing the application form.
Late applications will not be considered.
Questions regarding the Newcastle University Sanctuary Scholarship Scheme should be sent to: scholarship.applications@ncl.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/fees-funding/tuition-fees:
Find out about tuition fees for UK, EU, and international students.
Home students starting in 2025 entry
For Home undergraduate students, course fees nationally are subject to a government fee cap
In November 2024 the government increased the maximum fee level from £9,250 to £9,535 for 2025/26.
Tuition fees are payable for each year of your course.
£9,535 is the maximum fee set by the UK government that we are permitted to charge for home fee-paying students for the academic year 2025-26.
As a general principle, you should expect the tuition fee to increase in each subsequent academic year of your course, subject to government regulations on fee increases and in line with inflation.
This is to ensure we can continue to invest in a high-quality student education experience and support in the face of rising operational costs.
Example fees
This is an example for illustrative purposes only , of what the fees might rise to for a three-year course should the government agree a year-on-year inflationary rise from 2025, assuming the government’s index of inflation remains at 3.1% for each of the three years.
Year 1 £9,535
Year 2 £9,831
Year 3 £10,135
Tuition fee loan
You may be eligible to apply for a tuition fee loan and if you are accepted, you will not have to pay any tuition fees up-front or while you are studying.
Additional costs
Please note that some of our degrees involve additional costs which are not covered by your tuition fee.
Depending on your residency history, if you’re a student from the EU, other EEA or a Swiss national, with settled or pre-settled status under the EU Settlement Scheme, you’ll normally pay the ‘Home’ tuition fee rate and may be eligible for Student Finance England support.
EU students without settled or pre-settled status will normally be charged fees at the ‘International’ rate and will not be eligible for Student Finance England support.
You may be eligible for a scholarship worth 25% off the international fee .
If you are unsure of your fee status, check out the latest guidance here .
Tuition fee information for international students is set out on our individual degree pages for each degree.
If you are a current student, please visit our tuition fee pages for finance information.
You may be eligible for a 2% discount off your annual tuition fees by paying them up front and in full.
Find out more about funding and discounts.
The University will withhold your degree certificate if you have not paid your tuition fees.
We explain this policy in the University General Regulations (PDF: 322KB).
We want to protect you by making sure you don't take unnecessary risks with your money.
To ensure your safety in paying your tuition fees, we will no longer accept cash payments from the 2020/21 academic year.
We offer you many other payment options by safer and more secure means.
University tuition fees are not subject to exchange control regulations for Chinese students.
Find out more about tuition fee payment methods .
Home fee students will need to allow around £9,500-£10,500 a year for living costs.
This figure is for guidance only.
It will depend on your own personal spending patterns and how you manage your money.
Find out more about cost of living.
We aim to minimise additional costs to students but some of our degrees involve costs that tuition fees do not cover.
To make sure that you budget accurately for university life, check if your degree requires any additional course costs.
Find out more about additional course costs .
Find out more about our current access and participation plan and see our summary of 2024-25 course fees .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/fees-funding/tuition-fees/additional-costs:
Some of our degrees involve extra costs which are not covered by your tuition fees.
To make sure that you budget accurately for university life, read this page to see which extra costs apply to you.
For some costs, financial support is available.
The following costs apply to all students.
They should be used as a guide only .
When you graduate, we will invite you to your graduation ceremony.
It is free to attend for you and two guests.
To take part you will need to pay to hire an academic robe to wear during the ceremony.
Overdue charges apply to all library loans to encourage you to return any resources you borrow on time.
Costs vary depending on the type of loan, eg long or short loan, and the resource involved, eg book, student text collection, e-book reader or laptop.
We use the income from overdue charges to buy new books requested by students, and extra copies of those in heavy demand.
If a smartcard is lost, a replacement will be issued.
There will be a charge of £10 for a second re-issue.
Some assessments involve the production of a poster and students will need to pay for this.
In addition, dissertations and other extensive research projects are often required to be bound.
This will also incur a cost.
You may incur fines or late payment fees during your studies, if you make late payments or register late for your course.
Please visit our Student Financial Advice website for further information.
These costs apply to students studying on specific courses.
They should be used as a guide only.
For some programmes, certain immunisations are required prior to the start of the course.
Students should refer to the programme handbook and school office for details.
As your course will involve a high level of unsupervised contact with children or vulnerable adults you need to undergo a Disclosure and Barring Service (formerly Criminal Records Bureau) check as part of the admissions process.
The School will pay for the £43 cost of obtaining this check.
Medical and Dental students are required to attend local hospitals and clinics for periods of time for clinical training and receive a travel bursary .
Some students may also be able to receive an NHS bursary towards their travel expenses.
Students should enquire at either the Medical or Dental Student Offices for full details.
Due to the professional and vocational nature of your course, during your studies there may be some additional activities and costs.
These may be for equipment, uniforms, professional memberships, health and character checks etc.
An outline of additional activities and costs (where appropriate) is provided below but please note that these may vary over time.
The University library is well-resourced and stocks copies of books and reading materials from your reading lists.
However, for some resources you may wish to purchase your own copy.
For example, the PENG Pocket Guide to Clinical Nutrition (approximately £25) will be used routinely in Years 3 and 4, and on placements.
Our virtual learning environment is a repository for various course materials, including lecture notes.
Should you wish to print out any materials, or undertake any photocopying, there is a small charge per page.
An initial printing allocation is provided, and students can top this up online using a debit or credit card.
Students are encouraged to join the professional body for UK Dietitians, the BDA, as a student member.
At the current time, membership is free during 1st year, with subsequent student membership charged at £37.50 annually.
Membership includes professional indemnity insurance which is required for practice placements.
Should a student choose not to be a BDA member, they will be required to secure, and provide evidence of, professional indemnity insurance from an alternative source.
Your course will involve a high level of unsupervised contact with children or vulnerable adults.
You need to undergo a Disclosure and Barring Service (formerly Criminal Records Bureau) check as part of the admissions process.
The School will pay the cost of obtaining this check .
The School reserves the right to discontinue the studies of any student for whom an unsatisfactory DBS disclosure is received.
All students will be asked to complete an Occupational Health Questionnaire on entry, and will be required to comply with the Department of Health’s guidance on health clearance for healthcare workers.
Students will be asked to provide proof of their immunisation status or undergo vaccination as appropriate.
The cost for this is currently covered by the Faculty.
To ensure that students understand and are able to demonstrate safe kitchen practice within module and during placement related activities, students will complete a food hygiene certificate as part of the course.
This certification must be achieved in advance of the first food handling laboratory practical class.
The cost for this certification is currently covered by the School.
Practice placements are a compulsory part of this degree and one of these is undertaken during the summer vacation between the 3rd and 4th year.
This means that undertaking paid work during that summer may be limited.
Placement locations and experiences will predominantly be within the North East of England but any additional travel or dual accommodation costs may be reimbursed by the NHS Business Services Authority (subject to eligibility).
Find out more about this NHS Learning Support Funding
Students will be required to wear a uniform or other appropriate professional dress, during placement-related activities.
Students will be fitted and supplied with a uniform in Year 1 of studies and the School will cover the cost of uniform purchase, however, students will be responsible for maintenance and laundering of all items.
Where uniforms become damaged or for any other reason become unsuitable, replacement uniform items will be available at personal cost to the student.
Due to the professional and clinical nature of your degree, there may be additional costs during your studies.
Some of these are outlined below but please note that these may change over time.
The University library is very well resourced and the books and journal articles you need for your studies are all available there.
We do not recommend that you buy any books in advance of your studies but discuss with your module leaders if you think you would find a personal copy of a book useful.
You will need to buy a voice recorder, but again we strongly recommend that you wait until you arrive and are given details of the type of recording device that will meet your needs.
All your learning materials are available on Canvas, our virtual learning environment.
Each student is given a small printing credit allocation each year, which you can top up online when it runs out.
When you are on clinical placement you will be given additional credits to cover printing of therapy resources for your client.
The School will pay for the cost of obtaining this check.
All placements are in the north east of England, with the occasional placement in Cumbria.
Travel and accommodation expenses, when required, are met by students.
If you are in receipt of the NHS Learning Support Fund these costs can be reimbursed.
You are expected to provide your own smart clothing for clinical placements.
A dress code is enforced but you will be given information about this in advance.
A small number of external placements require the wearing of a uniform which will be provided on loan from the School.
We provide a list of materials you’ll need for the beginning of your BA in Fine Art degree.
You can pre-order these from our Fine Art shop and collect them when you arrive.
All first year students receive the first £70 of materials for free.
When budgeting for each year of your programme you should allow for materials costs, particularly if you choose expensive materials or projects.
In Stages 2, 3 and 4, students receive a materials budget of £120 which can be spent in our Fine Art shop.
The shop stocks consumable materials for individual practice such as paint, paper, wood, clay plaster, printing ink etc.
The department loans tools and equipment free of charge from the workshops but students who intend to specialise may wish to provide their own.
The University seeks to minimise the additional costs incurred by students undertaking compulsory programmes of fieldwork, field trips or visits.
All compulsory visits, field trips and fieldwork on compulsory modules or compulsory field trips or fieldwork which has to be taken in a given year will receive some financial support from the University.
All visits, field trips and fieldwork in the UK that entail no more than one night away, will be met in full by the University .
Compulsory trips and fieldwork in the UK extending beyond one night away will be supported by the university at the equivalent of £55 per night up to a maximum of £385 per student per field trip .
Compulsory overseas trips and fieldwork will be supported by the University at the equivalent of £100 per night up to a maximum of £700 per student per field trip .
The cost of any optional visits and field trips or fieldwork will normally be paid by students.
To find out whether you can expect to attend field trips or take part in fieldwork as part of your course please see the module list for your course via our A-Z list of degrees.
This list covers the modules that we now offer at the University and may vary for your year of study.
Contact the academic school delivering your course for an estimate of the field trip and fieldwork costs involved.
There are two categories of clothing that you may need for your course:
If protective clothing is compulsory for your course, your school will provide these free of charge.
If you're attending a pre-entry interview for one of the following courses at Newcastle University you could be entitled to receive expenses up to a maximum of £50 for your travel costs:
To claim travel expenses, you must also meet one of the following:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/fees-funding/student-loans:
Find out about the government loans available to help you study.
All eligible students from the UK can study without paying up-front by taking out a tuition fee loan.
Eligibility criteria for tuition fee loans includes factors like where you live, the course you choose to study and where you study.
It can affect your entitlement if you have any previous higher education study.
The government, via The Student Loans Company, will lend you the money to cover the full cost of your tuition fees for every year of your course.
Features of the loan include:
*applies to new borrowers starting courses from September 2023
Students from England can apply for a living cost loan to help pay for living expenses.
The amount you can borrow depends on where you live and study, and your household income.
If you have any previous higher education study it also affects your entitlement.
For information on the support available, including to those students eligible for/in receipt of benefits please contact Student Finance England .
If you're a student from Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland you can find information on living cost loans from your student finance body.
Students with adult and/or child dependants or who have a disability may be entitled to extra help in addition to any grants and scholarships available.
You do not usually have to pay this money back.
This information on loan repayments applies to students from England.
Some information is different for students from Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
Get an idea of what your loan repayments could be using the GOV.UK loan repayment calculator .
Find out more about rates of interest and repaying your student loan .
Tuition fee loans and living cost loans are available to eligible new home fee students.
Students who take out a loan will pay nothing up front or during their course.
Students from England entering university are eligible to apply for tuition fee loans and for living cost loans from Student Finance England .
You will need to apply for tuition fee loans, living cost loans and grants from your own student finance agency:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/fees-funding/international-students:
Before arriving in Newcastle you will need to consider how you will fund your studies and the cost of living.
Our finance information tells you everything you need to know.
We set tuition fees for our degree programmes on an annual basis.
Tuition fees are usually payable for each year of your study and they are different depending on which degree you choose to study.
To find out how much you will have to pay, visit our finance information for specific degrees using our A-Z list of degrees .
You will have to pay 50 per cent of your annual tuition fees in September.
The remaining 50 per cent will need to paid in the following January.
If a sponsor is paying your fees you will need to provide evidence.
This should be:
You can check the individual undergraduate course pages for details of tuition fees.
Read more about paying your tuition fees .
Eligible international students can apply for a number of scholarships.
Including:
We also offer International Family Discounts which are available for all international students with a close family member who has graduated from or is now studying at Newcastle University.
Some of our subject scholarships are also available for international students.
We also offer a range of sports scholarships to support talented student athletes.
In addition to your tuition fees you will also need money for living costs .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/study/global-scholarships:
We have over 1,000 scholarships available for International and EU Students looking to study at Newcastle University
Applications are open for our prestigious scholarships schemes for 2026 entry.
We understand that financing your studies plays a key role in deciding where to study.
Successful international and EU applicants can receive up to £8,000 or full tuition fee coverage.
We're committed to attracting talented, well-rounded individuals from all over the world.
This funding highlights our dedication and continued commitment.
Through these scholarships, we aim to:
We welcome thousands of students each year from across the world, who bring diverse perspectives to our university.
Our students enrich the cultural and academic life of the university, city and region.
Our scholarships offer more than just financial support.
They are an opportunity to focus on your studies, engage with your peers, and grow into the leader you aspire to become.
The scholarship schemes have been running for six years.
In that time, we've supported hundreds of international students fulfil their educational ambitions.
Find out more about each scheme including eligibility, applications and deadlines below.
We encourage early applications, as awards may be allocated early in the application process.
Award amount: £7,000 tuition fee awards
Application process: Automatically considered for a scholarship once you have applied for a course
Scholarship deadline : Awards may be allocated early in the application cycle; early course applications are therefore encouraged
Award amount: 2 5% off the international fee
Award amount: Up to 50% tuition fee scholarships
Application process: Applications must be submitted via our Apply to Newcastle Portal under the ‘scholarship applications’ section
Scholarship deadline: 26 February 2026 and 2 April 2026
Award amount: £8,000 tuition fee awards
Scholarship deadline: Awards may be allocated early in the application cycle; early course applications are therefore encouraged
Application process: Eligible candidates will be considered automatically for a Vice-Chancellor’s EU Scholarship award as part of their academic course application
Scholarship deadline : Awards will be allocated automatically throughout the 2025/26 academic year for 2026/27 entry to Newcastle University
Application process: Applicants must have offer of place to study on an eligible degree programme at the Newcastle city centre campus for the 2026/27 academic yr and be international for tuition fee purposes
Scholarship deadline : Awards will be allocated automatically throughout the 2025/26 academic year for 2026/27 entry to Newcastle University.
Award amount: Up to 50% or 100% of tuition fees
Application process: Applications must be submitted via our Apply to Newcastle Portal under the ‘scholarship applications’ section.
Scholarship deadline: 26 February 2026 and 26 May 2026
Award amount: 10 full fee tuition fee awards
Scholarship deadline: 4 June 2026
Award amount: 25% of tuition fees
Application process: Applications must be submitted through the University’s Apply to Newcastle Portal under the ‘scholarship applications’ section.
Scholarship deadline: Scholarships will be awarded on a rolling basis up to the deadline of 29 June 2026
“We are delighted to launch our global scholarships scheme and support the next cohort of international students in achieving their academic ambitions.
We welcome applications from students of diverse backgrounds and experiences who share our core values and aspire to make a positive difference in the world.
We look forward to welcoming them to our campus next year.”
Professor Chris Whitehead, Pro Vice-Chancellor, Global
Discover your dream course explore your study options.
Browse our many courses available for postgraduate students.
Discover what it's like as an international student in Newcastle.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/study/meet/undergraduate-open-day:
Choose when you’d like to attend and complete the form below to book your place now!
Once you have booked your place using the form above we will be in touch closer to the time with more information about the day.
At our Open Days you can:
We can’t wait to welcome you to our campus in 2025!
With more than 185 degrees to choose from across 39 subjects, you'll find the one that sparks your imagination.
Take a virtual tour of the campus, city and accommodation.
We'll be at higher education events around the UK, both virtual and in-person over the next few months.
Meet us at an event near you.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/undergraduate/your-future:
Discover your future at Newcastle and find out everything you need to know for undergraduate study through our informative emails, content and events.
Get started on your next chapter by signing up for:
When you choose to come here to Newcastle, you're choosing more than a course.
You're choosing more than a university.
You're choosing to live in the heart of our North.
This is where your future starts.
Find out what your life could be like studying an undergraduate degree at Newcastle University.
You'll have access to first-class teaching facilities and a cosmopolitan student community.
Take a tour of Newcastle University's campus in time-lapse and find out what's inside some of the buildings you can see.
Take a look around Newcastle University's Urban Sciences Building, home to our School of Computing.
Take a look around our campus and Newcastle city centre as the sun brings out the spring flowers in bloom.
Learn more about student life in Newcastle, and find out more about all the exciting opportunities you'll have while studying here.
Read our blog to discover what a day as a Newcastle student is like, and to get some great tips about how to make the most of your time here.
Find out more about tuition fees, student loans and scholarships.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/schools:
Work with us to support student aspirations and nurture progression to university.
Newcastle University: Winner of the Student Life category, Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2025
Drawing on more than 20 years’ outreach experience we work to:
We deliver our progressive programme of in-school, on-campus and online sessions in schools and colleges across the UK.
Find out about our new academic-led online programme!
Students can receive lower entry requirements to Newcastle University and develop skills for success at university and beyond.
We have over 100 sessions available for delivery in schools and colleges across the UK.
Bring a school group to experience our city centre campus and learn about university life.
Guidance for teachers to support your students' journey to higher education.
Our activities support the implementation of Newcastle University's Access and Participation Plan.
Each activity has an evaluation plan based on a Theory of Change.
Plans link to relevant educational frameworks, such as NERUPI and Gatsby Benchmarks.
Layla was excellent.
Very engaging and informative
I was thrilled with the sessions lead by Abi & Jem.
They delivered the information fantastically, the students were engaged.
I really appreciated involving the students in the presentations, asking them questions.
Our students really enjoyed the day.
Kiera was such a brilliant presenter - profession and informative.
Thank you Kiera.
The presentation and the presenter were excellent.
All aspects of the application process were covered.
Joe delivered the session brilliantly and was very good at building relationships with our students.
Thank you for being so accommodating to our students.
Many of the students left the trip now wanting to put Newcastle as their first choice!
Fantastic, wide ranging information and really well delivered by Starr!
Really great presentation and delivery.
Very much appreciated.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/parents:
Find out more about how you can support your child/young person's transition to university.
We understand that supporting a young person in their journey to university can be daunting.
There's lots of information and topics to navigate.
We've put together a dedicated hub for parents, carers and supporters of young people, covering the key things you need to know.
Going to university is a big step, particularly if your child is an international student dreaming of studying in the UK.
As a parent, carer or supporter we know you’ll have additional questions about how they’ll learn and grow with us – as well as how they’ll be supported to have a university experience that prepares them for future success.
Get the answers you need in our International Parents’ Guide .
From applications and UCAS, to entry requirements and offers.
We cover the things you need to know to support your young person's journey to university.
We provide extensive information on all aspects of undergraduate student finance.
Take a look, so you are as informed as possible.
Learn about the range of accommodation options available.
You will find virtual tours, room types, and costs.
Our health and wellbeing team offers a wide range of support.
This includes: physical and mental health conditions, disabilities, as well as academic and financial advice.
Newcastle is a big city in a small space and it has a sizeable student population.
Find out more about student life in the North East.
Explore our beautiful campus and city.
Find out about our courses and hear from our friendly students and staff.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/study/prospectus-request:
Exploring undergraduate study?
Ready to step up to a postgraduate programme?
Start your research with a prospectus.
Get your free prospectus and start exploring the outstanding academic and student experience we offer, including our:
Select your level of study (below) to get your digital prospectus today.
Check out our website for more detailed information, including specific course information, and the latest application and funding guidance.
We're a global top 200 university for sustainable development (Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2025).
In line with this, we’re reducing the amount of information we make available in a printed format.
However, if you still need a printed copy of either our Undergraduate or Postgraduate prospectus, request one here.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/postgraduate:
Learn more about postgraduate life and study at Newcastle University.
It’s time to invest in your future.
Explore our world-class teaching and research and channel your passion.
Explore a Newcastle University postgraduate degree and set yourself apart from the rest.
A postgraduate degree can open doors, enabling you to dive deeper into a subject you’re passionate about.
Whether you’re continuing from undergraduate study or returning to education, choose a postgraduate degree that builds the skills valued by employers.
We know that deciding to do a postgraduate degree is a big decision.
We’ve got some great resources to help.
Find out more and shape your future with us.
We have more than 300 degrees to choose from.
We're confident you'll find a subject that matches your passions.
We'd love to meet you.
Connect with us through open days, virtual events, webinars and offer holder days.
We support your study ambitions with a range of scholarships and bursaries.
Our database gets you to the information you need quickly.
Our community of academics are delivering research with global impact.
We're unlocking the secrets of long-Covid, advancing cancer treatments, predicting tropical storms to protect communities and so much more.
Research is at the core of our teaching.
It informs our degrees and allows you to study at the cutting-edge of discoveries.
Our teaching and research are world-leading.
Our outstanding teaching experience was recently awarded TEF Silver and our research ‘power’ capacity has increased by 65% in the last Research Excellence Framework.
A research degree lets you challenge yourself to prepare for a fulfilling career.
We’re here to help you take the next step.
Join a learning community that’s providing solutions and impacting lives.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/postgraduate/degrees:
With more than 300 postgraduate degrees to choose from, it’s easy to find and pursue your passion.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/postgraduate/why-newcastle:
A place to shape your career and explore big ideas
Every student choosing Newcastle, joins a vibrant community of learners from around the world - we are home to 29,000 students from 1 3 5 countries.
At Newcastle University our research and teaching are world leading (5+ QS Stars for overall excellence, 2024).
We're an institution that celebrates diversity and international perspectives.
Our research and teaching are closely linked, meaning our lecturers are at the forefront of research in their discipline.
We continually monitor quality and review our existing and new taught and research postgraduate degrees to ensure they reflect recent academic developments and, importantly, meet market and employer needs.
We deliver outstanding teaching, learning and outcomes for our students (5 QS Stars for Teaching, 2024).
In recognition of this, the UK Government assess us in the UK Teaching Excellence Framework.
This ensures you receive the highest quality of postgraduate study in the UK.
With 1 in 6 people in our city being a student, Newcastle is a fantastic place to feel like part of an interesting, supportive, and exciting community.
One of the most affordable student cities in the UK, there’s so much to do alongside activities and places to visit on your doorstep.
A compact city, Newcastle can easily be navigated by foot.
From visiting the coast to exploring our Quayside, there’s lots to immerse yourself in as a postgraduate student.
Through our Students’ Union, you’ll also have access to over 180 societies and 60 sports clubs, as well as a dedicated Postgraduate Officer.
At Newcastle University, we understand that financing your studies is a crucial factor in your decision to study with us.
We offer a variety of discounts, awards, bursaries and scholarships to support funding your future.
We have over 700 scholarships available for International and EU Students looking to study at Newcastle University.
You can receive up to £7,000 or full tuition fee coverage.
For further information about the financial support we offer our current students, visit our Student Financial Support page .
We are also a Top 10 city for affordability in the UK (QS Best Student Cities 2025).
Newcastle has a lower cost of living compared to other cities in the UK.
Your budget will go further here.
Rent in Newcastle upon Tyne is, on average, 66.7% lower than in London.
If you choose to study a postgraduate research course with us, you will receive a tailored package of academic and administrative support to ensure you maximise your research and future career.
You'll be supervised by a team of academics, who will guide and direct your studies.
They will be experienced researchers in your chosen field of study who you’ll work with to define your research project.
Additional support is available throughout your studies from our doctoral training centres, faculty training programmes and award-winning Research Student Support team .
Our graduates are in demand, and they continue to be among the most employable in the country.
We’ve been a warded 5 QS Stars for Employability (2024).
By providing internships and work experience placements wherever possible, we ensure you have the relevant skills to excel in your chosen career.
Employers play an active role in our degrees by delivering technical lectures or taking a role in professional skills modules.
Many PhD degrees include training and work experience in commercial laboratories.
Studying a postgraduate degree at Newcastle means you’ll enrol on a course designed with employability in mind.
We have strong industry connections, career-focused postgraduate degrees, and a dedicated Careers Service that can open doors to exciting opportunities .
Taking care of our students' mental health at university is our number one priority.
You'll be supported to reach your full potential by our central Student Wellbeing Service.
Offering a range of in-person and online support and resources, our teams can signpost you to further services if you need more help.
There is also specialist postgraduate support.
You’ll be part of new exciting social and academic challenges that will shape you into a well-rounded, confident graduate.
And we are here to support you every step of the way.
Our commitment to nurturing generations of students goes beyond education.
We’re committed to social and environmental justice in everything we do.
Our pioneering research supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs) seeking peace and prosperity for all people and the planet, now and in the future.
We aim to build a society that’s better, stronger and fairer – empowering our alumni to create outstanding impact around the world.
With more than 300 taught and research postgraduate degrees to choose from, it’s easy to find and pursue your passion.
With plenty of green spaces and a blend of old and modern architecture, you can't deny our campus is beautiful.
With a strong sense of community, it won't take long to settle in.
We have a wide range of accommodation for taught postgraduate students.
Learn about our New Student Guarantee as well as the application process.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/postgraduate/flexible-study:
Our flexible options offer study that fits in with your learning style and life commitments.
It provides the choice of when, where, and how you learn.
At Newcastle University, we know that every student’s journey is different.
That’s why we offer a range of flexible postgraduate study options to suit your lifestyle, goals, and commitments.
Whether you prefer full-time, part-time, online or blended learning, you’ll find a format that works for you without compromising on quality.
Explore the different ways to shape your learning experience and take the next step in your academic or professional journey.
We offer postgraduate options that fit around your life.
Both paths provide the same high-quality education and lead to the same qualifications.
Explore the benefits of each mode to find the one that aligns with your goals, schedule, and lifestyle.
The majority of our postgraduate courses (both taught and research) are studied on a full-time basis, with our taught Master’s degrees taking one year to complete.
Full-time study allows you to full immerse yourself in your education, taking advantage of our on-campus student experience and student services.
It’s a popular choice if you’re looking to study a postgraduate qualification straight after your undergraduate degree or if you’ve gone into work but would now like to gain a qualification in a short time .
Some of our postgraduate courses provide opportunities for you to study part time.
This includes both master’s and doctoral courses.
You'll study the same course as your full-time peers over an extended period.
You'll study at regular and irregular times throughout the year.
This may include studying:
Our online and blended Master’s degrees are designed to fit around your ambitions, offering the same academic excellence with greater flexibility.
These programmes give you the freedom to shape your postgraduate journey.
With a range of start dates and formats, you can choose the path that works best for you.
Our online Master’s courses offer a flexible way of gaining a postgraduate qualification.
They involve the same level of work as an on-campus programme but allow you to fit your studies around work or family life through distance learning.
They are also a good option to consider if moving to the UK to study a full-time isn’t an option for you.
Most of these courses have September starts, but our Mediation and International Commercial Dispute Resolution LLM also offers a January start.
We have many courses that blend online learning with face-to-face teaching.
Some of them also include work placements.
The online element of these courses includes readings, discussion forums, and assignments.
We deliver the courses via the Canvas Virtual Learning Environment (VLE).
You'll receive face-to-face learning in intensive teaching blocks of one to two weeks.
Blended learning courses involve learning, teaching and assessment through a combination of on-campus, in-person, and online methods.
A degree apprenticeship allows you to study towards a M aster's degree while you work, getting invaluable industry experience and earning a salary.
We offer a growing portfolio of Level 7 courses for you to choose from.
Your employer may fully fund your studies using the apprenticeship levy.
We offer a range of continuing professional development (CPD) courses.
They are great for busy professionals who want to further their knowledge at postgraduate level.
They do not require the same time commitment of a full course.
Our CPD courses can be stand-alone or combined to make up a full programme of study.
In some cases, they are accredited by the University and/or a relevant professional body.
We offer different types of postgraduate degrees, including taught Master's, research Master's and doctorates.
Explore the different types and choose the degree that suits you.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/postgraduate/qualifications:
Learn about the different types of postgraduate degrees available, including our English Language preparation courses.
Find the right study option for you.
International students need sufficient English language skills for further study at Newcastle University.
Our preparation courses provide this.
You can study an international preparation course at Newcastle University International Study Centre.
It works with our academic structure and will help you progress to a postgraduate degree.
Find out more about our teaching quality, research supervision, careers, and more.
Learn about our flexible study options, including part-time and online courses.
Discover over 300 postgraduate degrees at Newcastle with our course search tool.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/postgraduate/postgraduate-research:
Join us to push the boundaries of global knowledge.
As a postgraduate research student, you could help find solutions to some of the world’s most pressing problems.
A research degree from Newcastle opens the door to many opportunities.
It's your chance to study at a centre for world-leading research.
Our great minds are working on solutions to make life better for people across the globe.
Your PhD could help us have even more impact.
We're a global top 140 university (QS World University Rankings 2026), with an outstanding reputation for academic excellence.
You can rest assured that future employers will value your PhD from Newcastle.
Research shows we're one of the UK universities that top graduate employers target the most.
We were awarded 5 QS Stars for Student Employability (2024).
Through our Doctoral College, you'll get all the support you need to learn and grow.
Find out more about the types of qualifications and awards available.
Discover the different ways to fund your studies.
Receive guidance on submitting an application and confirming an offer.
See our campus in person and speak to staff and students at an Open Day.
Discover all that's great about Newcastle University and the city.
As a research student you will receive a tailored package of academic and administrative support to ensure you maximise your research and future career.
You will be supervised by a team of academics, who will guide and direct your studies.
They will be experienced researchers in your chosen field of study.
You will work with them to define your research project.
Additional support is available throughout your studies from our doctoral training centres, faculty training programmes and award-winning Research Student Support Team .
Our Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021) results show the University's research capacity - or ‘power’ in REF terms - has grown by 65% since 2014.
This national assessment of research performance confirms our research is world-leading.
It offers outstanding impact for society and the economy across all disciplines.
Higher education funding councils for England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland conducted REF 2021.
It grades the quality of research from 4* (world-leading) to 1*(nationally recognised).
Research falling below this standard is ‘unclassified’.
Read more about how our teams are collaborating to change the world .
Our aim is for you to develop a broad range of research and project management skills while carrying out your original research.
Your supervisory team will help you to:
All three of our faculties provide a research training and development programme, offering a range of workshops, events and other learning opportunities.
Further details can be found at:
Our ePortfolio system enables you to record and reflect on your personal and professional development.
You can use it to:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/postgraduate/fees-funding:
Explore funding opportunities and gain access to support available to help guide you through postgraduate fee options.
We know that how you fund your postgraduate studies is very important.
You can access our major schemes by subject area.
All you need to know about finding and applying for funding.
Find information about typical living costs for a student in Newcastle.
Our funding guide offers you expert advice to help you make informed financial decisions.
There are multiple ways to search for funding opportunities.
Search for a course and check out the Fees and Funding section or use our searchable online funding database.
Our Student Wellbeing Service has Financial Advisors who can support you with help and advice if you find yourself in need of financial assistance whilst studying at Newcastle.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/postgraduate/fees-funding/search-funding:
Find the information you need in our funding database.
Filter results:
Sorry, your search didn't match any of our courses.
Please check your
                        spelling or try to refine your search criteria.
Alternatively, to see what funding is relevant, you can find your course , checkout the Fees and Funding section and then search for funding.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/postgraduate/fees-funding/funding-your-study:
All you need to know about finding and applying for funding, the types that are available and additional help and support to cover your expenses whilst you study.
Postgraduate study is an exciting investment in your future and we’re here to help you make it manageable.
At Newcastle University, you’ll find a wide range of funding options, including scholarships and bursaries.
This guide will help you explore your options and access the support you need to fund your studies with confidence.
You'll find full details of expected fees on each course page .
This will be detailed in the Fees and Funding section.
The fee amount reflects the cost of one year.
Longer courses will have additional fees.
Some courses involve intensive laboratory, clinical or fieldwork so may have higher fees.
Home students registering for an eligible taught postgraduate course with a September start date can pay for their annual tuition fees in six installments.
International students and research students need to pay half of their annual tuition fees to register at the university in September.
The second half of your fees will be due in the following January.
Tuition fees are usually payable for each year of your study.
If you begin your studies mid-year, you will only pay the proportion of your tuition fee due to cover the period to the end of the academic year.
If your course lasts longer than an academic year, the fee due in the following September will normally be higher than in the previous year, due to an inflationary increase.
Therefore we do not accept cash as payments.
You may be unsure if you have home or international fee status.
The UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) provides guidance on who is eligible for home fees.
We will assess your fee status using the information in your postgraduate application.
In some cases, we may ask you to complete a fees assessment questionnaire and send us extra documents.
Confirmation of our assessment of your fees status will be in your offer letter.
You will however be eligible for a scholarship worth 15% off the international fee .
Part-time fees for international students do not apply as your student visa requires you to study full time.
There are occasional exceptions to this.
We support our EU and international students by providing a generous range of Vice-Chancellor's automatic and merit-based scholarships.
See our searchable postgraduate funding page for more information.
We offer the following tuition fee discount schemes:
Other funding awards can cover the cost of tuition fees.
The following types of funding provide you with financial support which you do not have to pay back.
However, you must meet their eligibility criteria.
We also participate in a number of prestigious scholarship schemes such as Commonwealth and Fulbright, and jointly with these schemes offer some full scholarships.
Studentships are funding for PhD programmes.
They may cover your tuition fees, a living allowance (called a stipend) and contribution towards your travel and fieldwork expenses.
Studentships may be funded by:
Search our funding database for studentships that are currently available.
These are normally based on academic merit or specific eligibility criteria such as the course you are applying for.
They can be fully or partially funded.
These are typically provided to help fund some of the additional costs associated with studying.
A variety of organisations, including charities and trusts offer bursaries and awards.
You might find it helpful to take on part-time work during the academic year as well as during the vacations, to help fund your studies.
Our Careers Service advertises part time, temporary and vacation positions.
The Newcastle Work Experience initiative offers you the chance to gain paid work experience in local businesses and organisations.
You have several options to look at in terms of securing funding for your study including:
Our course profile pages include details about typical funding sources for your prospective course.
You may also like to consider portfolio funding.
This is when you build up your funding from different sources such as; bursaries, charities and trusts, loans and part-time work.
These websites provide a range of advice and information about awards, studentships, and scholarships.
They also advertise teaching and research assistantships.
The Education UK website, is produced by the British Council to help international students interested in studying for a UK course or qualification.
It provides a comprehensive guide to fees and scholarships.
You must ensure you have adequate funds to cover your expenses while you study.
We understand that sometimes unforeseen financial difficulties occur.
If your situation could prevent you from continuing to study, discretionary financial support may be available.
Our Student Wellbeing Service has Financial Advisors who can support you with help and advice if you find yourself in financial difficulty while studying at Newcastle.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/postgraduate/applications-offers:
Apply now for your postgraduate course.
When you've chosen your postgraduate course, you can apply through our application portal.
Some courses have an alternative application method, meaning you won't be able to apply through our application portal.
For more information on the application process, see the 'How to apply' section on your chosen course page .
Prospective students register and apply using our Apply to Newcastle Portal.
Education Agents applying on behalf of prospective students for postgraduate study  – make sure you have registered first before you apply using our Apply to Newcastle Portal.
You'll use the application portal to:
If you're a current student at Newcastle you don't need to create a new account.
Instead, use your Student Self Service Portal (S3P) login and password.
We will be closing applications for postgraduate taught 2025 entry programmes from:
This is to ensure our international students receive the best possible experience and have enough time to make the necessary arrangements to join us in September 2025.
We understand that circumstances may change.
If you are still interested in studying at Newcastle University in September 2025 and would like to submit your application after the closing date, please contact us at pgadmissions@newcastle.ac.uk .
Additionally, we are currently accepting applications for September 2025 for the following online programmes:
Before you apply to Newcastle University, we've created some helpful tips that you might find useful:
Our staff and students are available to answer any questions by phone and email .
We're here to help you to make the right decision.
Explore our expert help and support.
Discover how to write an effective personal statement and get tips on how to prepare for an interview.
Follow our guide on how to apply, how to get technical help, and our admissions policies.
Our Offer Guide explains everything you need to know about your Newcastle postgraduate study offer.
We'll tell you what you need to do and when.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/postgraduate/applications-offers/application-help:
Find support and guidance to help you navigate through the postgraduate application process.
This guide will support you through each step of your application, whether you're applying for a taught or research course.
You’ll find clear advice on how to fill out your personal details, choose a course, upload documents, and write your personal statement.
If you need further help, you can contact the Postgraduate Admissions team .
There are a few variations in postgraduate taught (PGT) and postgraduate research (PGR) course applications.
We've illustrated these differences in the advice below.
You'll have shared some of the details when you registered, but there are a few extras that you will need to provide:
You can also enter some further information if necessary, such as:
You can use the 'Create Enquiry' option to change any incorrect details after submission.
Within the application, you'll need to find the course you are applying for using the course search criteria .
You can find the course by entering a keyword or the course name, as well as the type of study, mode of study and year of entry.
The search results will appear below the search function.
Click 'select' next to the programme you want to apply to.
This will add it to your application.
If English is your first language, select 'yes' and move onto the next step.
If English is not your first language, you'll need to select:
You may also need to submit an English Language Qualification.
It is a University requirement that English ability is checked at admission.
An adequate level of English is needed to succeed on your chosen programme of study.
It is also needed for International students to meet the UKVI’s Tier 4 Student Visa requirements.
English Language ability is usually shown via an IELTS, TOEFL IBT, Pearson PTE score or equivalent.
Find out more about our English Language Requirements website
In this section, you should enter your previous qualifications and any work experience you have that could be relevant to your course.
Please enter all of your previous university qualifications.
You'll need to provide details of:
For example: Newcastle University, BSc (Hons), Chemistry with Medicinal Chemistry, September 2011-May 2014, 2:1, 14th July 2014 If you are unsure whether your work or qualifications are relevant, you can contact a member of staff for more information.
You can do this by using the enquiry function in the application portal you applied through.
You'll need to let us know how you intend to fund your course at this stage.
You may not know exactly at this stage how you'll fund your studies but you should select one of the following:
You should also let us know if you have any relevant criminal convictions.
You can also use this section to let us know if you have a disability.
We welcome applications from students with a disability.
We are committed to providing an accessible environment, with a range of support for students with additional requirements.
If you state on your application that you have a disability, we can arrange for you to talk to our Student Wellbeing Service and/or arrange a visit.
This visit will allow you to:
We can provide course-related information and application advice in alternative formats:
For PGT courses, and some PGR courses, you'll provide a personal statement.
It's your chance to share your motivation and enthusiasm for your chosen course.
Use this section to show your suitability for postgraduate study.
Your statement should include examples of relevant work, voluntary or study experiences.
You should incorporate skills such as:
You should also cover your successes and achievements relevant to the course.
This is to show your aptitude for postgraduate study.
Outline why you have:
You may also consider showing how the course fits into your career plans and ambitions.
Read our personal statement guide by our Careers Service for more detail
You'll need to include contact details for two referees.
At least one of your referees should be able to comment on your academic ability.
We'll contact your referees to request references.
This is usually at the same time as sending the conditional offer.
If you already have a reference from your referee(s) you can attach it in the application portal you applied through.
The reference must be signed by your referee, dated and on official letterhead.
Where you have attached the reference we may also contact your referees for their confirmation .
You should contact your referees before adding their details.
This allows them time to prepare.
Check the 'How to Apply' tab on your course page to see what documents to include.
The main documents the University requires for postgraduate programmes are:
We do not need you to send:
The guide provides support to troubleshoot some of the common issues you may have when filling in your application.
Create a new account online through our application portal.
You can access your account at any time, saving your application as you go.
After you submit your application you can track the progress of your application too.
You will need to create a password and profile when you register.
There are a few rules though you need to bear in mind when you enter a password:
To create your profile you'll also need to enter your:
If you're a current Newcastle University student, you must use your 8 character Student Portal login and password .
This does not apply to INTO, NUIS, and NUMed students.
Create new account
Make sure you whitelist our email address to make sure you don't miss any contact from us.
If you experience problems when logging in to the application form, email us at it.servicedesk@ncl.ac.uk.
Please include the subject 'Technical issue with Apply to Newcastle Portal'.
Please include your full name and the email address you used to create your application.
Please also include details or a screenshot of any issues and/or error message.
Don't worry if you have forgotten your password.
You can click the link "Forgot your password?" on the login page of the application portal and enter your email address to reset it.
You'll then need to follow the link on the email we send you to create a new password.
You can use the application portal to contact the Postgraduate Admissions Team.
You can use this to make changes to your personal details or contact addresses.
To do this:
To attach document(s) to your application, select ‘Supporting Documentation’ from the left-hand menu.
There will be a list of required documents.
Complete the following steps:
Before you can submit your application, you must attach a copy of any mandatory documents including your degree transcript.
If you are still studying you should provide a current transcript of your degree studies to date.
When you upload these documents you must select the document type.
Please select if it is a 'transcript' or a 'translated transcript'.
When you are ready to submit your application, select ‘Submit Application’ from the left-hand menu, after you have read and accepted the terms and conditions - click 'Submit Application’.
We aim to respond to your application within 10 working days.
For some courses, or during busy times, this may take longer.
If we need further information to help us make a decision, we will email you.
You can track the progress of your application by logging in to the application portal you applied through.
If you've got a question about your application, send us an enquiry via the application portal you applied through.
If you haven't applied yet, you can send your questions with our enquiry form .
If you're in Newcastle and would like to speak to us in person, you can visit us at our drop-in sessions.
Come to the Student Services Helpdesk between the following times:
Student Services Helpdesk Level 2 King's Gate Newcastle University Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 7RU
Telephone: +44 (0)191 208 5503
Find us on a map
Take a virtual tour of King's Gate
We have several policies to communicate how we make admissions decisions.
This policy clearly outlines how we make decisions on applicants to undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
Download our Admissions Policy (PDF:214KB)
We work hard to be fair and process every application within a reasonable timescale.
But, if you're unhappy with the way we've handled your application please get in touch.
We try to resolve issues fast and informally.
This policy explains how and when you can make a complaint or appeal against a decision.
Admissions, complaints and appeals procedure (PDF: 268KB)
If you have a criminal conviction you might worry about it stopping you from studying with us.
This policy explains which convictions we need to consider and the process we go through.
Download our Criminal Convictions Policy (PDF:222KB)
We welcome applications from people of any age.
If you're under 18 then we have a special duty of care as in the UK you're still classed as a child.
This policy sets out how we prepare for the admission of someone under 18.
Download our Under 18s Policy (PDF:268KB)
Usually your deposit is non-refundable and we'll deduct it from your tuition fees.
But, there are some instances when we'll refund your deposit.
Our Deposit Refund Policy sets out the circumstance and deadlines by which you can ask for your money back.
Find out more about the Deposit Refund Policy (PDF: 119KB)
We're looking forward to receiving your application

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/postgraduate/applications-offers/advice-resources:
Gain expert help and advice in preparing you to apply for a course at Newcastle University.
Here you’ll find expert help for writing your personal statement, getting ready to apply, and preparing for interviews.
We offer step-by-step guidance on sharing your experiences and skills in your application.
You can also find tips for researching supervisors and making a research plan for PhD or other research programmes.
When you get to the interview stage, we’ll show you how to shine and give you tools to practise.
This is your go-to hub to build a strong postgraduate application.
You'll have to provide a personal statement if you apply for a postgraduate taught course or research programme.
It's your chance to convey your motivation and enthusiasm for your chosen course and show your suitability for postgraduate study.
Your statement should include examples that draw on relevant work, voluntary or study experiences and illustrate your skills, for example:
You should also cover your successes and achievements relevant to the course to show your aptitude for postgraduate study.
You may also consider showing how the course fits into your career plans and ambitions.
See our Careers Service website for more advice and useful tips on writing your postgraduate personal statement.
The application preparation for MPhil, PhD, MLitt, MMus and MRes programmes varies considerably.
For some of our research programmes, you will be asked to find a research supervisor before submitting your application.
However, other programmes do not require you to identify a supervisor.
This information will be specified on the 'How to Apply' tab on your course page.
Some programmes require you to provide a detailed research proposal when you apply.
Alternatively, other programmes will ask you to supply a short (non-binding) research proposal to indicate your broad area of interest.
There are also programmes that do not require any research proposal.
If you are applying for an advertised PhD studentship, please refer to the funding advert for guidance on your research proposal.
Congratulations, you've been invited to an interview.
This means that you’ve convinced the employer that you meet the basic requirements for the position.
You now have the chance to demonstrate to the selectors that:
During the interview, your knowledge of the position and organisation will be explored, along with the skills and experience you have gained and whether these mean you would be able to do the job.
Preparation is key.
Read some of our advice and resources on how to prepare for your interview .
Use our practice video interview tools to practise your interview and find advice and tips for what you should do during and after the interview .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/postgraduate/applications-offers/offer-guide:
What to do once you receive your postgraduate offer.
This guide explains everything you need to know about your Newcastle postgraduate study offer.
We'll tell you what you need to do and when.
We aim to respond to your application within 5 working days.
How we process your offer depends on whether you are an international student or a home student.
This depends on your fee status and we'll confirm this in your offer letter.
You can track the progress of your application or contact us with queries by logging in to the Apply to Newcastle Portal .
There are two types of offer you can receive: unconditional and conditional.
If you receive an unconditional offer from us, you will be able to accept it through the application portal you applied through.
You’ll receive a conditional offer if there are conditions that you need to meet before you can start your course.
The conditions of your offer are in the ‘Terms and Conditions of your Offer’ section of your offer document.
You can also see the conditions of your offer in the application portal you applied through.
To provide evidence that you’ve met the conditions of your offer, upload your supporting documents to the application portal you applied through.
If you’re still studying, upload the documents as soon as they’re available.
If your supporting documents aren’t in English, you must provide certified English language translations.
When your documents demonstrate that you’ve met your offer conditions, your offer will become unconditional.
If you have just missed the conditions of your offer, we would encourage you to upload your results anyway.
We will review your application and may still be able to give you a place on your chosen course.
We’ll contact your referees to request references.
If you have references from your referees, upload them to the application portal you applied through.
References must be signed by your referee, dated and on official letterhead.
Once you’ve uploaded the references, we might also contact your referees.
There are two ways to meet your English language conditions:
Some courses require a deposit to secure your place.
If this applies to you, the deposit amount and deadline for payment will be in the 'Terms and Conditions of your Offer' section of your offer document.
To pay your deposit, log in to the application portal you applied through.
You can pay by credit or debit card.
You can also pay by electronic transfer or by cheque.
Cheques should be made payable to Newcastle University and sent to:
Tuition Fees Section Finance Office Newcastle University King's Gate Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 7RU United Kingdom
Please include a copy of your offer letter with your cheque.
Usually your deposit is non-refundable and we'll deduct it from your tuition fees.
Contact us if you have any problems paying your deposit.
* Applicable for International students only
We’ll need a copy of the personal details page of your passport.
Some science, engineering and medical courses require you to have an ATAS certificate.
When it’s time to apply for your ATAS certificate we’ll email you with instructions.
The email will contain the ATAS statement or module list that you’ll need to include in your application.
You can apply up to six months before the start of your course.
ATAS applications can take up to 20 working days to process so you should apply in good time.
If you’re being sponsored, upload your formal sponsorship letter as soon as it’s available to the application portal you applied through.
You don’t need to pay a deposit if you’re able to provide proof of sponsorship.
You can log in to the application portal you applied through to check on progress at any time.
We check your documents as we receive them.
As you meet each condition, the list of conditions in the application portal you applied through will update to reflect this.
When you’ve accepted your offer and met any conditions we’ll send you a Confirmation of a Place (COP) document.
This is formal confirmation of your acceptance of the unconditional offer.
Congratulations on receiving an offer to study at Newcastle University.
Once you've received your offer, you have three choices: accept, decline or defer.
We hope that you’ll accept your offer to study with us.
To accept your offer, log in to the application portal you applied through.
You may have received multiple programme offers, but please note that you can only accept one.
Once you confirm your acceptance, all other offers—including applications still awaiting decisions—will be automatically declined.
However, if you change your mind, you can request to reinstate a previously declined offer, subject to availability
If there’s a deadline for accepting your offer, it will be in your offer document.
Most of our courses don’t have a deadline.
You can accept your offer as soon as you decide to study at Newcastle University.
You can accept before meeting your offer conditions and before applying for funding for your course.
Once you accept your offer, we’ll assume that you’re coming to study at Newcastle.
We’ll send further information so you can start making arrangements.
When you accept your offer, you are accepting the University's Terms and Conditions .
If you decide to decline your offer, log in to the application portal you applied through to let us know.
You can change your mind about studying with us.
If you accept your offer but then decide not to study with us, let us know by declining your offer in the application portal you applied through.
If you decide to defer your offer, log in to the application portal you applied through to let us know
For most courses, you can defer your offer to the next academic year.
If we’re able to defer your offer and you have a deposit condition outstanding, we’ll apply a January deposit condition for the following year.
We’ll decline your current offer and send you a new offer for the next academic year.
If we are unable to defer your offer, we’ll ask you to apply again the following year.
You can only defer your offer once.
To defer for a further year, you’ll need to submit a new application the following year.
If you need a student visa to study in the UK, you’ll need to pay a minimum £1,500 tuition fee deposit.
You should pay your deposit as soon as you accept your unconditional offer.
This demonstrates your commitment to Newcastle University.
You do not need to pay a deposit if:
You can pay by credit or debit card.
You can also pay by electronic transfer or by cheque.
Please include a copy of your offer letter with your cheque.
Our deposit refund policy sets out the circumstance and deadlines by which you can ask for your money back.
When you’ve accepted your offer and met any conditions we’ll send you a Confirmation of a Place (COP) document via the application portal you applied through.
*Relevant for Home Students
When you’ve accepted your offer, met any conditions and paid your deposit, we’ll send you a Confirmation of a Place (COP) document via the application portal you applied through.
* Relevant for International Students
Once you have received your COP, you will also be sent an email asking you to login to the application portal you applied through to confirm your details for your Confirmation of Acceptance for Study (CAS) statement.
You must check that the information we hold is correct and then click on the link to confirm the details are correct and request the CAS.
If there are any errors, please note them on the form and we’ll update the details on your CAS.
You need your CAS statement details and reference number to apply for your student visa.
Once you've completed the above steps you can apply for your visa.
The type of visa that you need depends on the length of your stay in the UK.
If you’re going to be studying for longer than six months, you’ll need to apply for a student visa.
Our guidance on applying for a student visa tells you what you need to do.
You’ll need a Confirmation of Acceptance for Study (CAS) from us to make your visa application.
If you’re going to be studying a programme of less than six months, you’ll need to apply for a visitor visa.
We’ll send you a visa letter to support your visa application.
From academic excellence to affordable living in a culture-rich city, discover why Newcastle is a great place to study

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/postgraduate/meet-us-open-days:
Explore our campus and city, find out about our courses and meet our staff and students to have all your questions answered.
Do you want to explore our beautiful campus and city?
Perhaps you want to chat to a member of staff or meet current students?
We offer a range of postgraduate events and resources to help you discover everything you need to know about postgraduate study.
There’s something for everyone no matter where you live in the world.
We offer a range of:
These events provide a great opportunity for you to meet with our staff and find out what it’s like to be a student at Newcastle University.
Our on-campus open days provide a great opportunity to:
Visit our beautiful campus and see first-hand what we have to offer.
Follow our guide for a self-guided tour or see Newcastle from anywhere in the world with our virtual tour.
We run a number of regular webinars and one Virtual Open Day event aimed at postgraduate study, each year.
Join our academics, student services, and current students in our regular series of online postgraduate webinars.
Each webinar covers a different topic and will give you the opportunity to get your questions answered live by our panel of experts.
Our online open day is a fantastic opportunity to learn more about what postgraduate study at Newcastle is like, including information on the application process, funding, and more - all from the comfort of your own home.
At our Virtual Open Day, you’ll get the chance to:
We’re a truly international university, with over 28,000 students from over 140 countries represented on campus.
With this in mind, we regularly travel overseas to meet students and to help answer all your questions about studying with us.
Throughout the year some academic schools and institutes run open days for prospective students and offer holders.
At these events you can:
You may be able to arrange a visit that is not part of a scheduled open day.
Contact your proposed academic school or research institute to find out if this is possible.
If you are interested in one of our research programmes and have identified a potential supervisor, we'd encourage you to contact them to discuss arranging a visit.
Your proposed academic school or research institute will be able to help you with this.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/doctoral-college:
Working to improve the PGR Student Experience.
The Doctoral College is part of Student Services and is here to provide dedicated support to our PGR Community.
We do this by improving connectivity of PGR administration across the university, to ensure that PGR support is visible to you and supported well.
The Doctoral College works closely with a wide range of PGR-focused colleagues across all Academic Units and Professional Services to offer a joined-up approach to PGR support and PGR-led engagement activities.
More detail on how we work with and for the PGR Community and how we can work with you can be found below:
Resources and development opportunities for PGR Supervisors and support staff
Information and resources for current students
Learn about the funding available for current students
See case studies and success stories
Opportunities for personal growth and development
See the projects the Doctoral College has been working on
The Doctoral College is here to support every aspect of your growth: academic, personal and professional.
Find out how you can start your postgraduate research career with us.
Nicky Houghton
Senior Student Policy Manager
Lesley Jackson
Doctoral College Strategy Manager
Contact doctoralcollege@ncl.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/study/distance-learning:
Newcastle University offers online courses you can study at your own pace.
Our online courses provide opportunities for clinical professionals to develop skills.
We also share a range of courses to the public through our collaboration with FutureLearn.
At Newcastle we also run courses on campus.
Develop your knowledge and skills through our continuing professional development courses .
Our Faculty of Medical Sciences offers a suite of online postgraduate programmes and modules that can be studied for continuing professional development.
They are perfect for clinicians, healthcare professionals and aspiring academics.
View our Faculty of Medical Sciences online learning modules and courses.
View our Faculty of Medical Sciences Postgraduate e-learning programmes.
The Faculty also offers short online courses: bitesize topics of 30 minutes to two hours learning.
Find out more about short online medical courses.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/study/cpd:
Get the skills you need to progress your career, with professional development courses from Newcastle University.
Are you considering a career change?
Are you looking to:
If so, continuing professional development (CPD) can help to set your career on the right path.
At Newcastle University, we offer a broad range of professional development courses .
They're designed to help you gain from the latest expertise and reach your full potential.
CPD makes learning proactive.
It’s an ongoing process of lifelong learning that can help you achieve your goals.
It can help you progress in your career, whatever stage you’re at.
Check out our introduction to CPD video or read on to find out more about how CPD could benefit you .
Our professional development courses combine world-leading research with specialist expertise .
You can develop the knowledge you need to succeed in a competitive market.
We can provide short courses or longer-term programmes that will make a real impact on your future career .
These can help you:
Many of our CPD courses accredited by professional bodies .
You'll be confident that the training you receive will be:
We also offer courses that provide academic credits .
They can help support any future study you choose to do.
We can also discuss bespoke courses with you and have open programmes in the following areas.
Our online directory of courses is available to book or express interest
If you need to develop skills in a specialist area, we offer bespoke CPD courses that are specific to your team's needs.
Courses can be delivered on campus or online.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/study/campus:
For learning.
For socialising.
For accessing top facilities to give you the very best experience.
You can't deny our campus is just beautiful, with plenty of green spaces and a blend of old and modern architecture.
There are lots of social areas to meet friends and unwind.
Our campus is perfectly situated less than two minutes’ walk from the hustle and bustle of the main city centre shopping area.
You never have to walk far to a lecture or seminar and there's always somewhere close-by you can grab a coffee or a quick bite to eat.
Our School of Computing and Newcastle Business School are based at Newcastle Helix.
They're still just 15 minutes' walk from the centre of campus.
Most of our student accommodation is within a 20-minute walk from the centre of campus.
Newcastle University's Arches are recognised around the world as a symbol of the institution.
Newcastle University's Faculty of Medical Sciences, home to a world-leading collaboration of research scientists, engineers, medical doctors and teaching professionals.
Take a tour of Newcastle University's campus in timelapse.
The new £58m Urban Sciences Building, based at the Newcastle Helix and home to the School of Computing.
The Student Forum, where you can soak up the campus atmosphere amongst Newcastle graduate Joseph Hillier's sculptures.
The Business School is situated within a £50-million development, providing cutting edge facilities, designed with our students in mind.
The King's Quad courtyard, with a bronze statue of Dr Martin Luther King as its focal point.
The impressive Students’ Union building - heart of campus and the hub of student life with a bar, shops, coffee shops, take-outs, study spaces, a bank and the Student Advice Centre.
Newcastle is ranked among the world's best for sustainable development.
We declared a Climate Emergency as a university.
This means that we have pledged to reduce our own net carbon emissions to zero by 2030.
We were only the second university in the UK to make this declaration and now that our partners in the City Council and the NHS Trust have also declared, we believe that Newcastle as a city is leading the way in its efforts towards a more sustainable future.
We've achieved five QS Stars for our facilities from QS Quacquarelli Symonds, meaning you'll have access to a whole range of top facilities that not only support you and help you get the best out of your studies but give you an outstanding experience.
Our high-specification, specialist facilities include laboratories, studios, museums, galleries, farms, and even a sea-going vessel.
Find out more on our Undergraduate and Postgraduate course pages.
Award-winning library services enhance your studies and support you whatever your subject.
Outstanding IT facilities, support and services complement your learning.
A range of services support you to achieve academic success and reach your full potential.
For feeling good.
For fitness.
For health.
For wellbeing.
NUSU provides opportunities, activities and services for creating your very best student experience.
The friendly and knowledgeable team offering support services are here to help students.
Newcastle is a very student-friendly city, with accessible public transport and a strong focus on maintaining a safe and vibrant city centre.
To ensure you enjoy a secure and supportive time on campus, we have:
During registration you will get a contact card with out-of-hours emergency contact numbers.
Student Wellbeing also publishes an emergency contacts list.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/study/campus/library:
Award-winning library services to enhance your studies.
Stepping into a vast University library doesn't need to be daunting.
We offer an award-winning customer service to make sure you can access the resources you need.
Whether you choose to study alone or in groups, we've got the right study space for you with a variety of bookable study rooms.
You can use one of our desktop computers, or even loan a laptop.
The University Library Service is made up of:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/study/campus/it:
Outstanding facilities, support and services to enhance your learning.
You'll have access to a wide range of IT services to support your learning.
Computer rooms, many of which are accessible 24/7, are available across campus with over 3,000 networked computers, and of course free Wi-Fi is widely available across campus.
There's also a laptop loan scheme for use within the library.
You'll be able to install Office 365 Professional Plus on your own PC, Mac or mobile device for free and attend mobile laptop clinics if you need help connecting to WiFi and the University network.
Mobile apps help you find the nearest available PC, view your timetable and access various services.
You can publish your own web pages and blogs using the University web hosting service.
The Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) Canvas provides:
Audio and visual material from lectures is published online to a ReCap service, this service:
When you register at Newcastle you'll receive a login, e-mail account and filestore on the University's IT network.
You'll receive plenty of support and guidance on how to make the most of our IT facilities from the IT Service (NUIT).
We provide:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/study/campus/study-support:
A range of service centres for academic success.
The Academic Skills Team in the Philip Robinson Library provides resources and one-to-one support for students from any discipline.
The service includes:
Find out more about the Academic Skills Team
The Maths-Aid drop-in Centre, run by the School of Mathematics, Statistics and Physics, provides free maths and stats help for students from any subject area.
Find out more about Maths-Aid.
All students have free access to our award-winning Language Resource Centre.
We provide self-study materials in over 150 languages, from Arabic to Zulu, including over 3,000 international films.
We run taster and improvement sessions and you can partner with a native speaker in your chosen language for language learning on an exchange basis.
You can also take advantage of our University-wide Language Programme which offers free classes in 10 languages.
Find out more about the Language Resource Centre.
Find out more about the University-wide Language Programme.
If English is not your first language, you may find that you need some additional support with your English language skills.
INTO Newcastle University offers pre-sessional English courses over the summer before starting your degree as well as free in-sessional English classes alongside your academic studies.
Find out more about INTO Newcastle University.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/sport/facilities:
Get the most from games and workouts with world-class indoor and outdoor facilities.
Every sport and fitness activity has an ideal setting.
Here at Newcastle, you’ll find we’ve covered all the bases.
You'll find a perfect place to get your endorphin rush , whether you're:
We’ve recently invested £30m into brand-new and refurbished spaces .
They make your sporting experiences better than ever before.
The new facilities include:
Discover our spacious sports halls, world-class gym and high-tech studio spaces.
From boat clubs to pitches for a kickabout, find your place for sports in the fresh air.
The Sports Centre is conveniently located, a stone’s throw from lectures, on campus.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/study/meet/campus-tours:
Get a feel for campus life on one of our campus tours.
We’re pleased to be able to offer you the opportunity to have a student-led walking tour of the University campus.
During your tour, you will be able to:
While you’re here, why not explore our stunning, historic city ?
All tours start at 13:30, finish times may vary depending on level of study, but will be no later than 15:30.
Campus Tour bookings will open in the New Year.
Join our mailing list and we'll notify you when campus tour bookings open.
If you're holding a UCAS offer from us, keep an eye out for an email invite to one of our undergraduate Offer Holder Experience Days .
You will get chance to learn about our range of Student Services, undertake a campus tour and discover more about your chosen subject.
Unable to attend on any of the dates?
Why not undertake a Self Guided Campus Tour or sign up for one of our upcoming Open Days instead?
If you have any queries about campus tours, we'd be happy to help.
We keep our tour groups small to ensure that you receive a more interactive experience.
This allows you to ask your tour guide any questions you may have.
We request that additional guest numbers are indicated at booking stage, where possible, to assist with our planning.
A large proportion of the tour is outdoors.
There are a couple of indoor elements to view some of our facilities.
Face coverings are optional on campus.
We have hand sanitiser at various locations around campus.
Book your spot on one of our Undergraduate Open Days and come and experience our fantastic city and campus.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/study/campus/student-safety:
Newcastle is renowned for its warm and friendly atmosphere, making it easy to feel at home .
As part of our vibrant student community, you'll find support to help you settle into university life, overcome challenges, and reach your full potential.
All within a campus environment that puts your safety and wellbeing first.
Watch our video to learn more about the safety measures in place and the support available to you.
We’re committed to providing a secure, inclusive, and welcoming campus environment where you can focus on your studies with confidence.
Our University offers comprehensive support, including:
Our University Security team is always present on campus, readily available for advice or assistance, and easily identifiable by their uniform.
They conduct regular campus patrols and closely monitor our CCTV.
Whether you need late-night support or general guidance, their constant presence provides reassurance and peace of mind for everyone.
To help maintain a secure campus environment, all students are issued electronic ID cards or key fobs providing controlled access to buildings, study spaces, and accommodation.
These systems ensure that only authorised individuals can enter specific areas.
Your electronic key or fob is easy to use - just tap or scan to enter.
If it's lost or damaged, our support team is on hand to help with replacements.
Remember to carry it with you at all times to ensure easy and secure access around campus.
These informal sessions are open to all students and provide a friendly, approachable space to ask questions, raise concerns, or simply get to know how we work with Northumbria Police.
The SafeZone app is a free safety app available to download for all students, providing instant access to campus security and emergency support.
With just a tap, you can request help, report an incident, or ‘check in’ if you're working alone or feeling unsafe.
Whether it's a medical issue, personal safety concern, or general assistance, SafeZone connects you directly to our security team at anytime, anywhere on campus.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/study/student-life:
For friendships.
For guidance.
For finding new passions.
From Sunday walks along the Quayside, to seminars and lectures from our award-winning academics, student life at Newcastle University is varied and rewarding.
During an undergraduate or postgraduate degree, there'll be plenty of time for you to get out and explore the city and the surrounding area, as well as to get involved with the clubs and societies at University.
Newcastle is a vibrant and friendly city, home to the famous Quayside and just a short metro journey to the coast.
With Hadrian's Wall and a castle-laden county, the North East is packed with heritage sites to discover.
Join a sports team, form a band or try something new, there's plenty for you to get involved with here.
Budgeting is an important part of university life - find out about the living costs in North East England.
Our friendly and knowledgeable support services team are here to help you.
Our teaching is award-winning and ensures students receive a high-quality education experience.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/study/student-life/city-life:
For exploring.
For finding hidden treasures.
For getting a taste of local culture.
A World Top 40 and UK Top 5 student city (QS Best Student Cities 2025), Newcastle is fun, friendly and filled with opportunity.
Vibrant by day and by night, with a welcoming multicultural community, you’ll feel like you belong.
A beautiful blend of history and modernity, our skyline is made up of a rich architectural heritage – from Grey’s Monument and the iconic Tyne Bridge, to The Glasshouse International Centre for Music and legendary St.
James’ Park football stadium.
Enjoy museums, art galleries, theatres and live music, alongside shops, restaurants and sporting events – there really is something for everybody here.
Newcastle is also one of the most affordable cities in the UK, with a low cost of living that will help your student budget go further.
A compact city, Newcastle can easily be navigated on foot or by bike.
It's well connected by affordable public transport too, with the Metro rail network running across the city, from the airport, to the North Sea coast.
There are plenty of market stalls in Newcastle to buy fresh fruit and vegetables on a budget.
Newcastle is home to a whole host of galleries and museums that exhibit both local and international showcases.
The Glasshouse is a music centre with an international profile and hosts a range of artists.
Newcastle has a vibrant nightlife, with bars, theatres, comedy clubs and more.
There are loads of places to eat in Newcastle, whether it's one of the nationwide chain restaurants around Eldon Square or an independent eatery.
The Grainger Market is home to a variety of independent retailers and food vendors.
St James' Park - home of Newcastle United - is visible from across the city.
There's a whole range of places to go for a drink in the evening, whether it's for a coffee or a cocktail, Newcastle's nightlife is diverse.
Northumberland Street in Newcastle city centre is a short walk from campus and home to a whole range of retailers.
Leazes Park sits in the shadow of St James' Park and is just over the road from our city-centre campus.
Artisanal producers, food stalls and craft-makers all sell their wares at the weekly Quayside Market.
Tyneside Cinema shows a range of films, from classics to foreign language films and there's also an Empire Cinema at the Gate, showing all the latest blockbusters.
Newcastle's reputation for a great nightlife is well-known and one of the reasons the city is always voted as one of the UK's greatest student cities.
Newcastle has so much to offer after dark.
There's a great mix of bars, pubs and clubs across the city, boutique bowling alleys, live music venues, late-night cafes, theatres and restaurants.
Newcastle is also home to several independent cinemas, as well as Empire Cinema in the city's under-one-roof leisure complex, The Gate.
Sport is integral to Newcastle's identity and there are many opportunities to see first-class sport in and around the city.
Whether it's watching Premier League football at Newcastle United's St James' Park, rugby at Kingston Park Stadium or cricket at Durham's Emirates Riverside, there's a whole host of world-class sporting events to enjoy.
Newcastle also hosts the world's biggest half marathon, the Great North Run, athletics events at Gateshead's International Stadium and is home to British basketball's most successful side the Newcastle Eagles, who are based in the west side of the city.
Newcastle's thriving arts and culture scene is packed with world-class music venues, award-winning museums, a diverse mix of galleries and several stunning theatres.
There are so many different ways to take in the local culture in Newcastle.
From world-famous acts performing at the Utilita Arena, The Glasshouse International Centre for Music and the O2 Academy, to venues like The Cluny, the Cumberland Arms and the Tyne Bar who champion up-and-coming and local musicians, there's plenty of opportunity to experience live music in Newcastle.
Newcastle is home to many galleries and museums, showcasing collections of natural history, scientific landmarks and art from the 18th-century through to the modern day.
The Baltic – a converted flour mill on the Gateshead Quays – is where to head to for modern art, while there's also the Biscuit Factory and the Laing Art Gallery, which display traditional art and contemporary exhibits.
There's a fantastic programme of festivals and events throughout the year in and around Newcastle.
Chinese New Year celebrations take over Chinatown for two weeks each year and the Newcastle Mela celebrates the diversity of the city through culture, cuisine and dance.
Northern Pride is held on the Town Moor and Exhibition Park and is a celebration of LGBT culture in the region.
There are also music festivals, such as This is Tomorrow in the city centre and The Mouth of the Tyne Festival, set in the stunning surroundings of Tynemouth Priory.
Newcastle has lots to offer for theatre-goers.
The Theatre Royal hosts the Royal Shakespeare Company and nationwide touring shows, while the City Hall and the Tyne Theatre are popular venues for musicians and comedians.
The Live Theatre and the People's Theatre that showcase independent productions and amateur shows.
There's also Northern Stage – based opposite the Students' Union – and is the largest producing theatre in North East England.
You'll be able to enjoy all the city has to offer when you're not in lectures and seminars.
There are plenty of places to eat, from nationwide chains in the Grey's Quarter at Eldon Square to independent eateries across the city.
There's also By the River Brew Company, a container village which host some of the city's most popular street food vendors.
For shopping, high-street names and department stores line Northumberland Street and in Eldon Square – one of the UK's largest city-centre malls.
There are boutique stores in Grey Street, quirky independent retailers in the High Bridge Quarter and a range of sellers in the Victorian Grainger Market.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/study/student-life/north-east:
For countryside and coastlines.
For history and heritage.
For scenic landscapes and dark skies.
The North East is a varied and historic region, filled with World Heritage Sites, coastal towns and castles – and it's all within easy reach of Newcastle.
Whether it's following a path laid down by the Romans nearly 2,000 years ago, visiting the castle where Harry Potter was filmed or unwinding on award-winning beaches, the North East is an amazing and beautiful part of the country.
The North Sea coast will be within easy reach while studying at Newcastle.
The award-winning Blue Flag beaches of North Tyneside are a short Metro journey from the city centre.
The coastal towns of Tynemouth, Cullercoats and Whitley Bay are all popular spots with independent cafes, bars and restaurants.
There are near-deserted beaches up the Northumbrian Coast too, with the sprawling sands of Druridge Bay about 40 minutes drive north of Newcastle.
Then there's the stunning beach at Bamburgh, with the imposing castle looming over the dunes from above and the secret hideaway that is Low Newton, which feels a million miles away from the buzz of the city.
Calming countryside is right on Newcastle's doorstep and there's loads of it to be explored.
Hadrian's Wall spreads across to Carlisle from the west of the city, and the Northumberland National Park sits to the north.
The Northumberland National Park is home to Kielder Water and Forest Park, where you can marvel at the dark skies – it's the largest expanse of dark night sky in Europe – or explore the forest on its bike trails.
There's also the North Pennines Area of Outstanding Beauty between Durham and the Eden Valley, which is a haven for outdoor enthusiasts and nature lovers.
Northumberland is home to more castles than any other English county, a legacy from its turbulent past.
From Newcastle Castle in the city centre to the remote and ruined Dunstanburgh Castle on the eastern coast, the castles in the North East have seen everything.
Visit one of Britain's most iconic castles, Alnwick Castle – Hogwarts Castle in the Harry Potter films – explore its history and how it's featured in the blockbuster film franchise.
There are also stunning castles at Bamburgh, Warkworth and Lindisfarne castles, among others, which can be explored.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/study/student-life/get-involved:
For athletes.
For music lovers.
For trying new things.
There's plenty to get involved with on campus at Newcastle University.
Whether it's joining a sports team, forming a band or trying something totally new, there's something for everyone.
Newcastle University Students’ Union (NUSU) is at the heart of campus life.
The student-run SU will see you through your entire University career, from Freshers’ Week through to Graduation.
There are volunteering opportunities through the Students' Union as well as Raising and Giving (RAG) Week.
There are also chances to take part in one-off taster sessions in the Give it a Go programme .
The Students' Union is the hub of student life and plays a key part in shaping the Newcastle experience, NUSU officers represent the students , and help make sure your time here is the best it can be.
Find out more about Newcastle University Students' Union .
With a top-10 ranking in the British Universities and Colleges Sport league for three consecutive years, Newcastle is one of the best places to study when it comes to taking part in sport.
On top of that, there's more than 65 sports clubs to choose from.
Whether you’re a keen athlete, or want to try something new, there’ll be a sports club to get involved with.
There's also the intra-mural sport programme, where 2,500 students take part each week in University teams, Campus Leagues, exercise classes, an inclusive sport programme and Give it a Go sport – ran by the Students’ Union .
There's plenty of culture on campus to get immersed in.
The Great North Museum: Hancock, which is adjacent to campus, has a planetarium and an interactive model of Hadrian’s Wall among other collections.
The recently refurbished Hatton Gallery – based in the Fine Art Building – is home to Kurt Schwitters’ Merz Barn Wall and exhibits the work of our Fine Art students in the summer.
Opposite the Students’ Union, the Northern Stage presents imaginative and engaging theatre, which is rooted in North East life.
Find out more about Northern Stage .
There are plenty of opportunities to enjoy music on campus, whether it's playing music or listening to it.
Weekly acoustic sessions are held in the Students’ Union and there's the lunchtime concert series LIVE in the King’s Hall – which plays host to international musicians as well as Newcastle students.
There are opportunities to join one of the student music groups, which include: jazz big band, student orchestra and choir, viol consort, brass group, salsa band and Newcastle Bach Choir.
Societies are a great way to meet like-minded people on campus and at Newcastle there are more than 160 of them to get involved with.
They can be linked to your degree, like WetSoc – the Marine Technology Society – or the Newcastle University Agricultural Society, while other societies also cater for interests outside of your degree programmes.
From anime meetups to yoga classes and a cappella sessions to wind band, there's a society for everyone.
Students can even set up their own society , if there's nothing they are interested in.
Newcastle University is dedicated to providing support to students of all faiths.
The University Chaplaincy regularly organises worship services (currently Buddhist, Christian and Muslim), socials, discussions and talks.
The chaplaincy also has links to many of the city’s major faith communities, so you’ll always be able to meet people of similar faith.
There are several prayer rooms on campus, which are open to all students and includes a multi-faith prayer room in the University Chaplaincy as well as a dedicated Muslim prayer room in the King George VI building.
Find out more by emailing chaplaincy@ncl.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/study/student-life/cost:
Being able to budget is an important part of student life – and where better to develop this important skill than student-friendly and affordable Newcastle?
Living costs cover expenses other than tuition fees, such as accommodation, food, drink, travel and study materials.
The average cost of living for a student studying in the UK is just over £1,100 per month, with the North East of England the second most affordable region for students.
Our city is ranked in the top 10 most affordable UK cities (QS Best Student Cities 2025) so you know your money will go further here.
Your monthly living costs will depend on your spending habits.
As a rough guide, this is what you can expect your main costs to be while studying with us.
* Some costs are approximate.
Compiled in November 2024.
If you’re an international student, as part of your visa application you’ll have to prove you have sufficient funds to support yourself while at university in the UK.
You’ll also have further costs associated with studying in the UK – such as your student visa and a health surcharge to access the NHS, the UK’s health care service.
To help you explore the living costs associated with studying at Newcastle watch our video.
*Some costs in our video are approximate.
Find out how much things will cost in your local currency with this currency converter .
Here’s some further guidance on University living costs, plus top tips on managing your money while you’re studying with us.
We offer accommodation to suit every type of student budget with your rent usually including energy and water bills, making budgeting easier.
Accommodation costs can vary check out our Accommodation pages for specific information about each of our residences.
At the end of your first year, you’ll normally move into privately rented accommodation.
You’ll need to pay a deposit for this, so start budgeting now to meet that cost.
Newcastle University’s Student Union’s Student Advice Centre has information and advice about renting privately.
Family accommodation: We offer family accommodation at a heavily discounted price compared to the private rental market.
Costs don’t include utility bills.
To help you, we’ve compiled a useful guide for students with families.
Food expenses will make up a large portion of your monthly budget so plan your meals in advance to avoid overspending.
Shop at local markets such as Newcastle’s popular Grainger Market for fresh produce – it’s cheaper and better for you.
If you can’t cook invest in a student cookbook or find easy-to-follow recipes online.
For a cost-effective option, we also offer a catering package covering your breakfast and lunch on campus seven days a week.
Costs will depend on the subject you are studying and can include:
Course costs are estimated at around £11 - £59 per month.
Newcastle is a big city in a small space making it easy to get around.
Student discounts are available on public transport, including our light rail Metro system and local buses.
Travel is cheaper if you plan ahead, so book your tickets in advance if, for example, you’re going home at the end of term.
Socialising is an important part of university life and something you’ll need to budget for.
Costs will vary depending on your interests.
You can enjoy a range of budget-friendly activities and events through the Students' Union including free and discounted taster sessions organised by our Give It A Go programme.
We also offer competitively priced membership packages for our Sport and Fitness Centre , giving you access to our state-of-the-art facilities.
Eligible undergraduate students can apply to our Activities Access Fund for financial support to cover some of the costs of getting involved.
Rent for University-owned accommodation or managed partnership accommodation includes contents insurance.
You won't need a separate policy, but it’s worth making sure it provides adequate cover.
If you need to take out contents insurance, shop around for the best deal and the cover that’s right for you.
If you live in any other accommodation, you’ll need to arrange your insurance separately.
Shop around to find the best deal and the right cover to suit you.
For more information check out our Financial Advice .
In the UK, it’s a legal requirement for any property with a television to have a TV licence.
You’ll also need one if you’re watching live television through an app such as BBC iPlayer.
Find out more about TV Licensing , check if you need a licence and – if you do – how to buy one.
There’s lots of financial advice and support available to you while you’re studying with us.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/study/student-life/support-wellbeing:
Our low drop-out rates are testament to the excellent support you can expect at Newcastle.
All of our support services are free of charge and available to all students.
We offer a range of services to ensure that you can reach your full potential.
Our dedicated Student Services building, King's Gate, is in the heart of campus.
Our Student Advice Centre is in the Students' Union.
Our Student Services team offers help, advice and support on a wide range of issues.
King's Gate is open every weekday.
If you have a general enquiry, you can contact us via our online enquiries form .
Your personal tutor will support you throughout your time at Newcastle.
They can offer practical guidance on a wide range of academic and non-academic issues.
You can also seek support from a student mentor; a fellow student on your degree who has been trained to support incoming students.
We support parents to carry on their education with us.
Find out what support is available.
We provide free and confidential health and wellbeing support to all students at Newcastle University.
Starting University after a break in your studies can sometimes be very daunting.
We're committed to supporting students who are care leavers.
Find out how to access ongoing support, and support and advice before you apply.
We welcome applications from Asylum Seekers.
Find out more about tuition fees, support, and information for Asylum Seekers.
The Student Advice Centre is a professional service provided by Newcastle University Students’ Union.
Find out more about the services on offer.
Chaplains of diverse faiths are based on campus.
The Chaplaincy Team offers services including mindfulness, confidential listening and support.
Our Students' Union provides opportunities, services and activities designed to help you get the most out of University life.
Need someone to talk to about any issues or upsets, from missed deadlines to mental health struggles?
Nightline is a safe place to talk about your troubles.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/study/student-life/support-wellbeing/health:
Our Student Wellbeing team offers a wide range of professional and advisory services from their base in King's Gate.
For information about support for students with disabilities at Newcastle University visit the Student Wellbeing Disability Support webpages .
If you are a UK student you may be eligible for Disabled Students' Allowances from the government to cover any extra costs you may incur while studying.
Professional counsellors and mental health workers are on hand all year round to support students who are experiencing emotional or psychological difficulties.
Find out more about our free and confidential counselling and mental health services .
Our Student Wellbeing team can help you register with local medical and dental practices when you arrive.
The can provide information about:
Use our enquiries form to request information about the University in an alternative format, for example, Braille, large print or audiotape.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/study/student-life/support-wellbeing/childcare:
Studying while supporting a dependant, whether it is a child, or an adult can add additional costs and considerations to your experience.
The nursery and school provision available to you is determined by the Council area you live in.
Information is available on their relevant websites:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/study/student-life/support-wellbeing/care-leavers:
We’re committed to supporting students who have experience of being in care.
You’ll receive ongoing support whilst studying at Newcastle, and we can provide advice and guidance before you apply on all topics relating to higher education.
If any of the above criteria apply to you, you can find details of how we can support you below.
If you are unsure if you meet the criteria, please get in touch with our Care-Experienced Student designated contact:
Scott Douglass, Student Recruitment Co-ordinator:
nclcares@ncl.ac.uk
Pre-entry
When you arrive
During your studies
* Available only to students applying to Newcastle University via the PARTNERS Programme.
Care-experienced students are automatically eligible for PARTNERS (essential conditions, including grade requirements, still apply).
How to let us know that you are a care-experienced student
The easiest way to tell us about your care-experience is by ticking the box on the UCAS application.
You will be asked to share the duration of your care-experience but you will not have to share any further information at this stage.
When you tick the box, we can see that you may require support and they may get in touch with more information about how we will do this – and to tell you more about your options.
You can find out more about how to apply to University as a care-experienced student, on the UCAS website
Newcastle University has a designated member of staff who can offer advice and information to care-experienced individuals and their supporters .
Please don't hesitate to get in touch if you have any questions:
Scott Douglass - Student Recruitment Co-ordinator
Email - nclcares@ncl.ac.uk
Newcastle University | King's Gate | Newcastle upon Tyne | NE1 7RU

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/study/student-life/support-wellbeing/asylum-seekers:
Find out tuition fees for asylum seekers, and how to seek further advice and support about applying to Newcastle University.
Newcastle University is offering Sanctuary Scholarships for eligible undergraduate students.
The Scholarships cover full tuition fee support and a bursary for living.
They are designed to enable students from asylum-seeker and refugee backgrounds to progress to higher level study.
Find out more about Sanctuary Scholarships.
The Helena Kennedy Foundation can provide financial bursaries, mentoring and support for asylum seekers, enabling them to progress to and attend Higher Education.
Find out more about The Helena Kennedy Foundation.
The Refugee Council works with asylum seekers and refugees in the UK.
Find out more about the Refugee Council.
UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) is the national advisory body for international students in the UK.
They provide advice and information to current and potential students.
Find out more about the UK Council for International Student Affairs.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/study/student-life/teaching-learning:
For an award-winning experience.
For industry-informed degrees.
For a high-quality education.
Research-informed teaching engages a student's curiosity and fosters a dynamic learning environment.
Degree programmes are shaped in consultation with industry, so they reflect the needs of employers.
In some degrees, this means you'll work directly on projects set by industry or commercial companies, applying learning to real-world contexts.
The high quality of teaching and the impact of the University's research is reflected in QS World University Rankings, with a place in the top 140 institutions .
There's a long tradition of excellence in teaching at Newcastle University and this has been recognised in assessments and by students and external surveys.
We’re ranked 30th in The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025 .
A number of our subjects were also ranked in the guide, with 11 featuring in the top 10.
The guide evaluates everything from teaching quality and student experience to degree completion rates and graduate prospects.
We're a world top 130 university and perform consistently well across university league tables.
We are one of only 21 institutions in the world to achieve the highest rating of five-plus QS Stars.
We provide our students with an education for life that engages, challenges and supports them to discover and fulfil their potential.
You'll become a part of an inspired learning community made up of fellow students and our academic staff.
We will challenge you and empower you to reach your full potential, during study and once you graduate.
Exactly how you learn at Newcastle depends largely on your subject.
Find out about the different ways we teach in the sections below.
A lecture is a presentation from an academic expert to a large group of students.
They will introduce you to a topic and share their expert knowledge.
You'll be directed to additional information – online or in the library – and leave with great ideas so you can study the topic further.
Many lectures are recorded by our recording system, ReCap .
This means you have the chance to listen to the lecture again, which you'll find helpful when revising, or if there is anything you have not understood at the time.
A seminar is a small meeting of students from the same degree, led by a tutor.
You'll engage in lively discussions about lecture material and your personal research; challenge your preconceptions and develop new ideas.
You will develop a deeper understanding of particular subjects and develop your skills in communication, presentation and problem-solving.
Sometimes you'll take on a challenging project with other students and deliver findings to your class.
This will test and reinforce your understanding of the topic and you'll develop skills for the workplace.
Fieldwork and field visits are a great way for you to apply what you've learned in a practical way or allow you to observe and learn from professionals working in your chosen area.
Locations vary from a visit to industry to an archaeological dig and may include residential locations abroad.
You will normally be expected to keep a record of your learning in the field through a field diary, portfolio, coursework or field presentation.
You can get hands-on experience using industry-standard equipment and techniques, to help prepare you for your future career.
Practical work encompasses a wide range of teaching including:
You'll be able to take advantage of our specialist facilities and bring what you've learnt in the classroom to life.
You can take a virtual tour of many of our academic facilities.
During your time at university, you'll grow as a critical thinker and be able to communicate and evaluate opinions and ideas.
Independent learning is an important part of your Newcastle University experience.
It helps you develop independent thought, problem solving, research skills and organisation.
These skills appeal to a wide range of employers and are one of the reasons top employers recruit our graduates.
Our degrees are designed to allow you to take greater responsibility for your learning at each stage.
You will have increasing freedom of choice over what modules you study as your course progresses.
A major self-directed project in your final year relies on you using your own initiative to plan and carry out research in an area of particular interest to you.
Private study is essential beyond your scheduled teaching hours and set assignments.
You will need to be proactive with further reading, seeking out study materials beyond the set texts on your reading list.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/study/student-stories:
Discover why students choose Newcastle University and get a glimpse into their personal experiences of studying, socialising, and living in the city.
Hear from our students and graduates first hand through their stories.
International Development and Education MA
One thing I love about the University is the focus on wellbeing and work-life balance.
We can find support for almost everything!
Modern Languages PhD
I’m part of the Taiwanese Society as I think it's good to connect with other students from my home country and share information about studying.
Business Analytics MSc
I had heard people say postgraduate teaching in the UK is extensively driven by research.
International Development and Education with Cross-cultural Communication MA
If you're passionate about saving the world through education, Newcastle has the right course for you.
Combined Honours in Politics and Sociology BA
It didn’t take me long to feel at home.
Data Science MSc
I was impressed by the support provided to international students, especially the Airport Meet and Greet service.
Communications and Signal Processing MSc
Everyone at the University, including professors, is so nice to you.
It’s very easy to make new friends.
The supportive environment, state-of-the-art facilities, and vibrant campus make it the ideal place for personal and academic growth.
Hydrology and Water Management MSc
We enjoyed a lot of activities in the local area as a family, from watching Newcastle United football games to visiting the coast.
Architecture BA
From the moment I stepped foot on Newcastle University’s campus, it was my top choice.
Accounting and Finance BSc
The social life at the university is diverse.
I get to make friends and keep up with my healthy lifestyle while I study.
Data Science and AI MSc
Newcastle truly feels like a second home, with its accessibility, vibrant student life and the amazing friends I’ve made along the way.
Business Administration MBA
The diverse and inclusive environment has made it easy to connect with people from different cultures and backgrounds.
International Multimedia Journalism MA
Everyone I have encountered here so far has been nothing but kind and helpful.
It’s my favourite thing about studying here.
Economics and Finance BSc
I have had opportunities to speak with associates and managing directors in investment banking, which has clarified my vision.
Computer Game Engineering MSc
I was surprised at the diversity of Newcastle - there are lots of students from all over the world studying here, and it is easy to make friends.
Architecture MArch Karl
I’ve had the opportunity to follow my own entrepreneurial journey with clients like the BBC, Snapchat, and English Heritage, among others.
Transport Engineering, Planning, and Management MSc
My first time coming to Newcastle was after a trip to London.
The city is beautiful with amazing bridges going over the Tyne River.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation:
Whether you’re looking for University accommodation, ready to move in, or currently living with us, we have everything you need to know.
Find out all you need to know about applying for accommodation
Whether you’re a new student, member of staff, or visitor, we have accommodation options for you.
Our residences all have unique characters, and we take pride in our safe, vibrant, and diverse communities across our three villages.
You’ll find a place to call home within a supportive community, with everything you need to study, socialise, and relax.
Our campus is in the heart of the city, and all our residences are either on campus or on the city’s doorstep, only a short walk away or easily accessible by public transport.
This means that when living with us, you're never too far from lectures, or the many things Newcastle has to offer, from history and heritage, to shops, bars, and restaurants.
And if you’re currently living with us, or getting ready to move in, our Accommodation team are here to support you.
Whether you’re looking for undergraduate or postgraduate student accommodation, something suitable for families or couples, or temporary staff and visitor accommodation, we’ll help you find somewhere to live.
Find out more about the application process, including the steps you need to take to apply and what happens after you’ve submitted your application.
As a current resident, there’s plenty of information you might find useful when living with us in our accommodation - from ResLife and Security, to understanding parcel collection and our accommodation policies.
Learn more about our payment options as a new or current student.
From managed partnership payment options, to payment methods for overseas students, we’ll help you understand your finances.
Our handy guide has everything you need in one place, plus an at-a-glance table to help you compare and choose your accommodation easily.
Cost is an important consideration when choosing your accommodation.
How much your accommodation will cost at Newcastle University depends on several things, such as the type of room you choose and the facilities available.
You can find information regarding the different prices of our accommodation on the Our Accommodation page.
We review our accommodation fees annually.
We adjust them taking into account trends in students’ preferences and comparable private accommodation.
A variety of rents ensures we have a greater level of choice available at a range of price points, improving affordability for our students.
Applying for accommodation at Newcastle University is really easy.
First, use our accommodation filter to review all of your options, then head to our Applying for Accommodation page to start the application process.
You'll move into your new home at Newcastle University in September.
To ensure a quick and easy arrival process, we ask that you book an arrival slot.
This will be a set day and time to arrive at your residence and move all your belongings in.
You'll be invited to sign up for an arrival slot via email in August.
Please note that slots are assigned on a first-come, first-served basis, and we can only accommodate a certain number of arrivals during each time period.
Find out more on our Moving In page.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/university:
Filters
Accommodation for: Postgraduate, Undergraduate Price range (per week): £190.05 to £231.00
Bernicia exemplifies premier student living, just a minute's walk from the centre of campus.
It offers en suite and studio rooms, each thoughtfully designed with modern amenities to provide a comfortable and supportive study environment.
Prices start £190.05 per week.
Accommodation for: Couples and Families, Postgraduate Price range (per week): £112.00 to £235.20
Located in the vibrant suburb of South Gosforth and well connected with the Metro system and by bus, Bowsden Court is located two miles from campus and is surrounded by handy shops and places to eat.
An ideal spot for postgraduates, couples and families.
Prices start from £112.00 per week.
Accommodation for: Undergraduate Price range (per week): £156.80 to £173.52
Byron Central offers en suite accommodation with a community feel, located just outside of the city centre and a 10 minute walk to the centre of campus.
Prices start from £156.80 per week.
Accommodation for: Postgraduate Price range (per week): £210.00 to £210.00
Located next to the Philip Robinson Library and Marjorie Robinson Library, our postgraduate residence, Carlton Lodge, is close to campus and Newcastle's vibrant city centre.
Priced at £210.00 per week.
Accommodation for: Accessible, Postgraduate Price range (per week): £187.25 to £210.00
Grand Hotel is ideally located above the University bookshop on campus, less than a two-minute walk to the Students’ Union, and under five minutes from the city centre’s main shopping street.
Available for postgraduate students, prices start from £187.25 per week.
Accommodation for: Postgraduate Price range (per week): £98.00 to £105.00
Located next to the Philip Robinson Library and Marjorie Robinson Library, Jesmond Road’s converted Victorian terraces are only a six-minute walk to the centre of campus.
Available for postgraduate students, prices start from just £98.00 per week.
Accommodation for: Accessible, Undergraduate Price range (per week): £187.25 to £231.00
A beautiful selection of 10 converted Victorian houses consisting of 7-17 students, in a brilliant location close to campus.
Prices start from just £187.25 per week.
Accommodation for: EU Exchange Students Price range (per week): £138.00 to £138.00
Located just a short walk from the centre of campus and the bustling city centre, Leazes Parade offers standard rooms exclusively for EU exchange students, equipped with comfortable lounge/kitchen areas, a brand new common room and shared bathrooms.
Prices start from £138.00 per week.
Accommodation for: Undergraduate Price range (per week): £148.43 to £153.66
Manor Bank offers en suite rooms in four to six-bed flats, located just outside of the city centre and under a 20 minute walk to the centre of campus.
Prices start from £148.43 per week.
Accommodation for: Undergraduate Price range (per week): £150.50 to £150.50
Just a 14-minute walk from the buzz of the city centre, campus, and shops, Marris House is home to over 180 washbasin bedrooms, clustered in six-bedroom flats priced at £150.50 per week.
Accommodation for: Undergraduate Price range (per week): £194.43 to £194.43
Newgate Court is located a short walk from the University campus, in the heart of the city centre.
This accommodation offers modern en suite rooms, priced at £194.43 per week.
Accommodation for: Accessible, Undergraduate Price range (per week): £187.25 to £210.00
Park Terrace is well placed close to campus and offers over 200 en suite rooms for undergraduate students in 6-11 bedroom flats, from £187.25 per week.
A modern residence which offers en suite, studio and accessible accommodation for undergraduate students, Park View is well located close to campus with prices starting from £187.25 per week.
Accommodation for: Undergraduate Price range (per week): £185.00 to £195.00
Located in quirky and eclectic Ouseburn, close to the famous Quayside, Portland Green Student Village is only a 19-minute walk away from the main campus, offering en suite accommodation, in four to seven-bedroom flats, from £185.00 per week.
Accommodation for: Undergraduate Price range (per week): £171.00 to £171.00
Centrally located, The View offers top of the range en suite rooms in the city centre and stylish social spaces to spend time with friends, located just over a 10 minute walk from the centre of campus.
Priced at £171.00 per week.
Accommodation for: Undergraduate Price range (per week): £174.00 to £174.00
Verde offers top of the range en suite rooms in the city centre, located just over a 10 minute walk from the centre of campus.
Priced at £174.00 per week.
Accommodation for: Undergraduate Price range (per week): £169.34 to £192.34
Located next to the Business School and close to St James’ Park, Wellington St Plaza offers modern, en suite rooms in flats shared by three to six students, from £169.34 per week.
Accommodation for: Undergraduate Price range (per week): £135.80 to £172.90
Conveniently located next to the University library, Windsor Terrace is just a six-minute walk away from central campus.
Both washbasin and en suite rooms are available across six-bedroom flats.
Prices start from £135.80 per week.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/university/types:
Find out the difference between the types of accommodation.
We have accommodation options suitable for everyone, whether you're an undergraduate student living alone for the first time, or a postgraduate student coming to Newcastle with your family.
When choosing between University-owned and managed partnership accommodation, there are some differences to consider.
Watch our short video to find out more.
If you accept an offer of accommodation for a University-owned residence, your contract will be with us.
Our contracts are legally binding.
This means that once you've signed, you need to abide by our terms and conditions.
Additionally, there are limited circumstances in which you can end your contract.
One of these circumstances is if you're no longer a registered student.
If you withdraw, we'll release you from your liability at the end of the termly billing period .
Undergraduate contracts are 40 weeks, while postgraduate contracts are 49 weeks long.
This allows you to leave your belongings in your room if you go away for the vacation periods.
Take a look at our contract to see the terms and conditions when living with us.
A deposit is not required for University-owned accommodation, nor is a guarantor.
Your rent will be due after you receive your first student loan instalment.
We offer a range of payment options.
You can choose to pay in full before your arrival, in termly instalments or monthly instalments.
You can find our more about our payment methods and payment schedules .
University-owned accommodation is run and managed by us.
This means that we will complete any repairs and carry out regular maintenance.
Your village will have a dedicated ResLife space.
This is where your ResLife Coordinator, supported by ResLife Student Assistants, will be on hand to help you settle in and run social events.
You'll also have 24/7 access to the University Estates Security Service for your peace of mind.
To be able to fulfil our Accommodation Guarantee , we work with a range of managed partners.
These are providers of purpose built student accommodation who have an agreement with the University to reserve rooms for our students.
The accommodation is owned and managed by the private provider.
You apply for managed partner accommodation through us, but you accept the accommodation contract with the provider.
Their contract is legally binding, and their terms and conditions apply.
There is no notice period in your contract; once you accept it, you will be responsible for paying your rent until the end of the contract, even if you leave early or move out.
Contracts in our managed partner residences are between 40 and 44 weeks.
Use the filters on Our Accommodation pages to see which residences are managed partners, and what contract length they offer.
Some of our managed partnership providers request an advance rent payment.
Additionally, you may need to provide a guarantor.
A guarantor is someone, usually a parent or a guardian, who agrees to pay your rent if you miss a payment.
If you cannot provide a guarantor, managed partnership accommodation may not be available to you.
Each partner has their own payment terms, please see our managed partnership payment pages for more details.
In our managed partner accommodation, the day to day running of the building is carried out by the provider.
This includes cleaning, repairs, and maintenance.
They offer extended reception opening hours, and 24-hour support.
You'll still have access to our ResLife team at one of the University’s student villages and the Accommodation team can help with any queries you might have.
Newcastle has many accommodation options, including private houses and accommodation built for students.
This offers great variety, but not all accommodation is created equal.
Make sure you do your research before signing a contract.
Our colleagues at the Student Advice Centre have lots of housing advice if you're considering this type of accommodation.
If required, we may occasionally secure additional rooms with private providers.
If we do, we ensure that we only ever work with providers of safe accommodation, that meet all the up to date safety regulations.
When applying for accommodation, you have a range of different room options.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/university/types/our-rooms:
We have a range of different room options to suit all preferences.
Our student accommodation offers a variety of room types tailored to suit your preferences.
Ranging from cosy standard rooms to the luxury of premium en suites, we have the room for you.
All our rents are inclusive, meaning utility bills for energy, water, and WiFi are included in the rent.
Our family and couple accommodation are an exception to this, as the utility fees are separate and based on usage.
If you live in University-owned accommodation without a washing machine in your flat, your rent includes a £120 laundry credit for full-year contracts.
This credit is split into two payments and provides approximately 40 washes and 40 dry cycles.
If you're living in Turner Court or Rosedale Court, which are managed by our partner Abodus, your rent includes 20 wash and dry cycles.
For all other managed partner accommodations (including Bernicia), laundry facilities are available, but usage is not included in the rent and will incur an additional cost.
All our rooms come with:
Bedding and soft furnishings are not included in your room.
All our accommodation is self-catered, and you will have access to an equipped kitchen.
You will need to bring your own crockery, cutlery, utensils and pots and pans.
If you need help with sourcing the essentials for your accommodation, you can pre-order items from UniKitOut .
UniKitOut provides quality student starter kits packed with cookware, bedding, towels and more.
You can place your order, get it delivered, and we will store it safely for you until you arrive
Standard rooms share kitchen and bathroom facilities.
These rooms can be found in Jesmond Road and Bowsden Court .
Standard rooms are the most affordable room type, and cost less than rooms with an en suite.
Washbasin rooms have a handbasin (sink) in each bedroom, while other facilities like showers and toilets are shared.
They tend to be more expensive than rooms with standard facilities, but less expensive than en suite rooms.
Washbasin rooms are available at Jesmond Road , Marris House , and Windsor Terrace .
Our en suite rooms offer private bathrooms with a shower, washbasin, and toilet.
These rooms are usually more expensive than washbasin rooms and can be found at:
As well as at our managed partnership residences;
Premium en suite rooms are larger than standard en suite options, with some also including a bath.
These rooms are available at:
Our studios offer the perfect combination of sleeping, lounging, and cooking spaces, all in one private area.
Each studio comes with a bedroom, lounge, kitchen, and bathroom.
Studio options are for single occupants and are available at Park View , Bernicia , and Kensington Terrace .
Students with disabilities or health needs receive priority for studio accommodation.
Any remaining studios are then offered to all students.
If you plan on bringing your family with you, you might consider living in one of our self-contained family flats.
This type of accommodation features two to three private bedrooms, a separate lounge and kitchen area, as well as your own bathroom with a shower, toilet, and washbasin.
They are available at Bowsden Court and are suitable for families and couples.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/university/accessible-accommodation:
We understand that every student has different needs, and our accommodation is designed to reflect that.
If you have additional requirements due to a disability or health condition, we offer a range of accessible options.
Whether you're staying in a shared flat or a self-contained studio, our accessible accommodation is designed to feel like home - comfortable, practical, and inclusive.
Our current adaptations include:
We’re also happy to discuss any other requirements you may have and can make reasonable adjustments to help ensure your stay with us as comfortable as possible.
We'd recommend that you also get in touch with our Disability Support team for further advice and guidance.
Whether you're allocated a bedroom within a shared flat or a self-contained studio, you'll still have plenty of opportunities to socialise.
Studio residents are typically housed on the same floor as other studios or rooms.
We have accessible accommodation at:
Please note that studios are limited and prioritised for students who require them based on health or disability needs.
For guidance on applying for accessible accommodation, please visit our new page Applying for Accessible Accommodation .
We recommend reviewing the accessible accommodation application information ahead of applying to make the process as straightforward as possible.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/university/staff-and-visitors:
If you are joining us as a new member of staff, or are visiting the University for work or study, we may be able to provide you with short-term accommodation.
If you are relocating to Newcastle to work at the University, we understand that you might need a temporary base before you’re able to find something more permanent.
Our short-term accommodation options for new staff will provide you with a comfortable and convenient place to stay.
Our visitor rooms offer a glimpse into the city and its surroundings, allowing you to get familiar with the area before making a more permanent arrangement.
We offer temporary accommodation for a minimum of 14 nights and a maximum of 1 year.
Please note that some of the residences are located alongside our student accommodation and may be subject to more noise.
For those visiting the University for work or study, we offer temporary accommodation for a minimum of 14 nights.
If you're joining us for a conference or summer school during the summer months, we offer campus accommodation as well as catered packages for your stay.
You can enquire about conference accommodation with our team.
“I found the staff in university accommodation to be really wonderful and so supportive.
The facilities are great and Windsor Place is top class!”
To book a room, use the online booking form and make sure to submit the request at least seven days before the desired date.
Our team will aim to respond to your booking within three business days (Monday to Friday 9:00 am to 5:00 pm, excluding bank holidays and the period between Christmas and New Year).
For group bookings, each person must submit their own booking form.
We cannot allocate multiple rooms to a single individual.
Before you book, please read our booking terms and conditions .
Cancellations will incur charges in line with our cancellation policy .
We offer parking for guests staying in staff and visitor accommodation at no additional charge.
L imited parking spaces are located at Windsor Place .
To check availability and book a space , p lease contact the accommodation reception:
Windsor Place (for Windsor Place and Windsor Terrace residents):
Tel: 0191 208 2090 Email: kensington.terrace@ncl.ac.uk
Please note that these parking options are for staff and visitor accommodation residents only.
Further information about student resident parking can be found here .
Parking agreement and conditions
Permits must be displayed in the windscreen and vehicles must be parked in a marked bay, within the designated resident parking area at the specified residence on the permit.
Vehicles must not be parked in any other area as this will result in enforcement action.
By entering and remaining on the property of the University, you agree to the conditions indicated on the parking notices displayed and are contracted to be legally bound by them.
If you breach any of the stated conditions, you will be issued with a Parking Charge Notice (PCN) and agree to pay the Parking Charge of £60 within 28 days, reduced to £30 if paid within 14 days.
When a Parking Charge becomes due, an application may be made to the DVLA for the registered keeper details.
For payment and queries regarding a Parking Charge, the following contact information can be used:
We offer single occupancy small rooms, standard rooms and one flat, with a minimum stay period of 14 nights, and a maximum stay of 12 months.
By logging into the University network, employees at Newcastle University can access the internet.
Guest WiFi is available through the Sky sign-up page.
It is important to note that some websites and services may be inaccessible.
Children are not permitted in our staff or visitor accommodations, and all visitors must be over 18.
If you are under 18 or have children, we recommend that guests look for family-friendly accommodation in the private sector.
We do consider student requests for short-term stays (14 nights minimum) on a first-come, first-served basis.
It is important to note that University staff are given priority.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/university/staff-and-visitors/bedrooms-we-offer:
We offer 14 small and 15 standard self-catered, single occupancy bedrooms, and one flat for Newcastle University’s staff and visitors.
Subject to availability.
Our self-catered accommodation with shared bathroom and kitchen facilities is located close to the University’s two libraries: Robinson Library and Marjorie Robinson Library.
Here, we offer single occupancy small rooms and standard rooms, as well as one flat (suitable for couples) with a minimum stay period of 14 nights, and a maximum stay of 12 months.
Employees of the University are given priority for this type of accommodation.
The accommodation is ideally located close to the University library, just a short walk from campus and Newcastle’s vibrant city centre.
Address
Windsor Place Jesmond Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4ET Windsor Terrace 12 Windsor Terrace Jesmond Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4HE
Carlton House Jesmond Road Jesmond Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4EU
This accommodation uses the reception at Kensington Terrace at the following address:
Reception Kensington Terrace Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4BF Telephone: +44(0) 191 208 2090 Email: kensington.terrace@ncl.ac.uk
Reception opening times:
Reception doors are open Monday to Friday, 08.30 – 17.45 and the Customer Services team can also be contacted by telephone and email from 08.00 – 18.00.
Jesmond and Haymarket Metro stations are both a short walk away.
There are Metro trains every five minutes during the day, to and from both these stations, into Newcastle city centre.
Windsor Terrace is within five minutes’ walk of the city centre where there are buses, Metros, and trains to local and national locations.
For bus times and fares refer to Nexus Travel Line or contact them by telephone on 0871 200 2233.
Calls to this number will cost 10 pence a minute from a landline and considerably more from a mobile.
From Newcastle Central Station you can take the Metro directly to Haymarket (three stops) or Jesmond (four stops).
Taxis are also available from the Central Station.
Newcastle International Airport is only seven miles northwest of Newcastle University.
A taxi from the Airport will take about 15 minutes, costing approximately £15.
You can also travel by Metro from Jesmond or Haymarket stations which will take approximately 20–25 minutes.
Accommodation options are spread out across three floors in three buildings.
There are 14 small bedrooms, 15 standard bedrooms and one self-contained flat (suitable for couples).
Each floor has a shared bathroom.
This residence is self-catered with residents having access to a shared kitchen (with the exception of the self-contained flat which has its own private kitchen).
Kitchens have a dining table and chairs, a television, cooker, microwave, fridge, freezer, kettle, toaster, iron and ironing board.
We also supply crockery, cutlery, and kitchen equipment.
Guests are responsible for cleaning their own room, although shared areas will be cleaned by our team weekly.
Rooms will be made up for arrival, with bedding and towels provided and can be laundered by guests during their stay by using the onsite laundrette (chargable).
There are 14 small bedrooms and 15 standard bedrooms available.
Guests share a kitchen/diner and bathroom facilities.
Each bedroom combines a sleep/study space, including a bed, wardrobe, drawers, bedside table, desk, chair, and easy chair.
Windsor Place has one self-contained flat (suitable for couples), where guests have their own kitchen, bathroom, living room and bedroom.
Rooms will be made up for arrival and guests are responsible for their own cleaning.
Bedding and towels can be laundered by the guest during their stay by using the onsite laundrette.
We have a weekly cleaning service for communal areas.
(Monday to Friday excluding bank holidays).
There is limited parking available at Windsor Place .
To check availability and book a permit, please contact the Customer Services team at Kensington Terrace reception:
Tel: 0191 208 2090
Email: kensington.terrace@ncl.ac.uk
Rent is calculated on a daily basis, but prices shown below reflect the weekly cost.
Council tax, wifi, and utilities are included in the price.
1 August 2024 - 31 July 2025
Weekly rent: £182.00
1 August 2025 - 31 July 2026
Weekly rent : £189.00
Weekly rent: £206.50
Weekly rent : £214.90
Weekly rent: £357.00
Weekly rent : £367.50

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/university/staff-and-visitors/booking-staff:
Find out how to make an accommodation booking if you are joining us as a new staff member or visiting the University for work or study.
We want to make booking short-term staff and visitor accommodation with us as easy for you as possible.
Therefore, before filling out the booking form, please make sure you have read and understood our terms and conditions and make your booking at least seven days in advance of your stay.
If you want to make a group booking (multiple rooms/multiple people) you need to fill in a booking form per person.
We can't allocate multiple rooms to one individual named person.
If you are travelling from overseas and will require a visa to stay in the UK, we recommend you do not make a booking request until after your visa has been confirmed.
It's important to note that cancellations will incur charges in line with our cancellation policy, as stated in our terms and conditions .
We will aim to respond to your booking request within three working days.
Our office hours are Monday to Friday 09.00 to 17.00 (we are closed on bank holidays and between Christmas and New Year).

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/applying-for-accommodation:
Before applying, it's important to research our accommodation .
Use the handy filter options to find the accommodation most suited to you.
Look into different room types , considering factors like location, facilities, and cost.
Make sure the accommodation is within your budget and that you know the difference between the types of accommodation .
Think about whether you'd prefer a larger or smaller community, and whether you want mixed or single gender accommodation.
If you need a specific room type or location due to a medical need, please visit see our Accessible Accommodation options and for further guidance.
We offer an Accommodation Guarantee for extra peace of mind.
Make sure that you are familiar with the eligibility criteria and the deadline dates.
Remember, we guarantee eligible students a room, not necessarily one you have chosen.
Finally, familiarise yourself with the different application routes.
These differ depending on your course type, the duration of your stay, if you're coming with your family, or if you need room to accommodate a disability or health need.
To apply for accommodation, you must hold a firm offer to study with Newcastle University.
Reserve your room at the point of application.
This option is available to full year undergraduate applicants only.
List your top accommodation choices and we'll assign you a room.
This option is available to all applicants except full year UGs.
Find out how to apply for accommodation if you are joining us for one semester only.
Yes, you do need to apply for accommodation again.
You can log in with the same 9-digit application number from the first time you applied.
Make sure you select your new year of entry when making your accommodation application.
There might be a simple fix if you are having trouble creating a log-in.
Here are a few things to check:
If the problem continues, please contact us so we can investigate this for you.
If you are unable to make an application, please check that:
If, after waiting 48 hours, you still cannot apply, please contact us to investigate.
We understand that estranged applicants or those that have been in care, may have different accommodation needs.
As part of our commitment to support you, we can offer you a specialist allocation .
This includes a continuous accommodation contract, or space to store your things over the summer.
If you'd like to discuss your requirements, please contact us and we'll be happy to help.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/applying-for-accommodation/new-student-guarantee:
We guarantee accommodation to all first-year, undergraduate and postgraduate students where certain eligibility criteria is met.
Coming to university is an exciting time but moving to an unfamiliar city can be a daunting experience.
We aim to take some of the stress out of the process by offering our Accommodation Guarantee.
We can guarantee you accommodation so long as:
The guarantee is an offer of a room in University-owned or managed partnership accommodation.
We strive to match you with your chosen accommodation, but this isn't always possible due to the popularity of some residences.
We appreciate your understanding that our guarantee is of a room, not one you have chosen.
Not all applicants are covered by our guarantee.
You are not guaranteed accommodation if:
Part-year students aren't guaranteed accommodation, but we still recommend that you apply and we'll try to offer you a room if possible.
The way to apply will depend on your exchange programme, so we recommend you check our webpages for specific information.
Couples and families aren't guaranteed accommodation, but we still recommend that you apply and we'll try to offer you accommodation.
You can apply by submitting an application in the Accommodation Portal, where you’ll pick one accommodation option.
For couples, this is a two-bedroom flat, and families can choose either a two or three-bedroom flat depending on your family size.
We'll ask for information about the other members of your household, as well as your arrival and departure dates.
We aim to process applications as soon as possible after receiving them, so we recommend applying as soon as the application is open - although we can’t process your application until you obtain your unconditional offer.
Only one member of the household needs to apply.
If you aren't covered by our accommodation guarantee, we'll begin to process your application from 30 August 2025 onwards, or as soon as possible after we have processed all of our guaranteed applicants.
We'll still aim to offer you accommodation, but if this is not possible, we'll tell you as soon as possible.
We'll collate availability from accommodation providers in Newcastle and we'll share this with you too.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/applying-for-accommodation/advanced-booking:
Find out how to reserve your room.
Please note: the Advanced Booking period for guaranteed accommodation has now closed.
Advanced Booking will open again at 10am on 18 August for Clearing, Insurance and late applicants find out more - Clearing and Insurance
The information and dates below should be used as a guide only.
Occasionally, we may need to change things due to unforeseen circumstances.
If this happens, and we need to make a change, we'll let you know as soon as possible.
Please make sure you monitor your emails and read any updates that we send.
We process all applications in line with our Allocations Policy .
For specialist allocation information please refer to this policy.
Full year undergraduate applicants use the Advanced Booking method through our Accommodation Portal .
This allows you to reserve a room at the point of applying, giving you peace of mind that your accommodation is secured.
You can choose your accommodation and wash type depending on availability.
However you won’t be able to select a specific room or flat, nor organise to live with friends.
If you are a mature undergraduate student (aged 25 or over by 1 September 2025), you can still use Advanced Booking, but you will select a room in postgraduate accommodation instead.
A dvanced Booking is not available if you require an accessible room or studio (including standard studios) to accommodate a disability or health need.
If you need an accessible room or studio, please visit our Applying for Accessible Accommodation page for further guidance.
The Accommodation Portal will open at 10:00 (UK time) on 10 June 2025 .
To apply, you must have made Newcastle your firm choice — please note this can take up to 48 hours to update in the portal, so plan accordingly.
Rooms will be released in three equal batches:
We recommend registering for an accommodation account before rooms are released, so you're ready to log in and reserve a room straight away.
Before applying, research all our accommodation options carefully.
We strongly suggest having a few back-up choices in mind so that, if your favourite option is unavailable when you log in, you’ll have alternatives you already know you'd be happy with.
If you see a room you’d be happy to live in - even if it’s not your first choice - we recommend reserving it.
You can wait for future room releases, but depending on your queue position, fewer options may be available.
Once you’ve reserved your room, you won’t be able to make any changes to it - even if a room you prefer is released later.
So please consider your choice carefully before making a reservation.
The portal will remain open from 10 June, and we encourage you to reserve your room by noon on 28 July 2025 to meet the Accommodation Guarantee deadline.
To register, you’ll need your UCAS or university reference number.
Make sure you use an email address that you check regularly.
Avoid using a school or agent's email address as you may miss important emails.
To login, use the nine-digit number you received after registering.
Click "Create Application" to start.
We'll ask for some information ‘About You’ such as your address and details of a trusted person.
You'll then select how you are applying.
Only students that are applying as a single student are able use advanced booking.
You can choose whether you’d prefer to live in a single or mixed-gender flat.
This will determine which accommodation is able to view at the next stage.
You'll then see the accommodation available to reserve.
You can use the filters and comparison tools to help you decide which accommodation is best for you.
Once you select ‘book now’, a confirmation pop up message will appear asking you to confirm that you'd like to reserve that room.
Think carefully as you cannot change your mind once you have reserved a room.
If you are happy, you can proceed.
Your room is now reserved.
You can review your booking from the 'Review Booking' screen.
If you reserved your room using the Advanced Booking option, you already know your room type and residence.
You'll find out your exact flat and room number in your contract.
You'll receive your contract after results day and once you've confirmed your place at the University.
We'll send you an email letting you know your contract is ready.
You'll then have a deadline to accept your contract online.
Please note: If you do not accept your contract by the deadline, your room reservation may be cancelled.
Be sure to check your emails regularly and respond promptly to any actions required to secure your accommodation.
The majority of our rooms will be released through the Advanced Booking process, giving you a wide range of options to choose from.
A small number of rooms are held back for specialist allocations in line with our Allocations Policy, such as specially adapted bedrooms or studios.
Rooms will be released in three batches, and each batch will include availability across all of our residences, not just one or two locations.
We aim to release roughly equal numbers of rooms in each batch to keep things as fair as possible.
Rooms are released in three equal batches on set dates, but they don’t disappear at the end of each release day.
Accommodation remains available on the portal until it’s fully reserved.
If you can’t log in on a specific release day, you’ll still be able to reserve from what’s available later.
We recommend adding reminders of key dates to your phone or diary so you don’t miss out on any opportunities or deadlines.
In the unlikely event that all rooms are reserved between batches, the website will indicate that there is nothing available to reserve at the moment.
Don’t panic - remember, there are three room release dates throughout the application period, so more rooms will become available soon.
Additionally, we offer an Accommodation Guarantee for eligible students, so you can rest assured that you will be offered accommodation if you meet the eligibility criteria.
We understand that everyone has a favourite option in mind, but some accommodation is very popular and may fill up quickly.
To keep the process as fair as possible, we use the Advanced Booking system, which allows you to reserve your own room - putting you in control of your accommodation choice.
If your top choice isn’t available when you log in, you’ll still have the chance to choose from your back-up options.
You can also wait for later room release dates to see if your preferred accommodation becomes available.
However, there’s no guarantee you’ll secure your first choice, as availability depends on demand and your position in the booking queue.
During room release dates, we also use queuing software on our website to manage demand and ensure everyone has a fair chance when booking opens.
If you require adaptations to your bedroom due to a disability or health need, you’ll use the 'submit an application' route instead of the Advanced Booking option.
This ensures that your allocation will be considered by our experienced team, who will work with you to find a suitable room that meets your individual needs.
If you have a disability or health need but do not require adapted accommodation, please use Advanced Booking as usual.
After reserving your room, please inform us of any adjustments you need, and we’ll work with you to organise them.
For further guidance on applying for accessible accommodation please visit Applying for Accessible Accommodation .
We use queuing software to keep the website secure and manage high demand.
If you're running into issues, try the following steps:
If the problem continues, please contact us on 0191 208 3333 and we’ll be happy to help.
Yes, you’ll still receive an undergraduate contract length (typically 40–44 weeks, depending on the accommodation), even if you're living in postgraduate accommodation.
We’ve found that students aged 25 and over often prefer the environment of postgraduate residences, which is why we make this accommodation available to mature undergraduates.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/applying-for-accommodation/submit-an-application:
Find out how to apply as a postgraduate student.
The Accommodation Portal is now closed.
It will reopen on the 14th August, and the application will open on the 18th August.
Postgraduate students will apply for accommodation by choosing their top three accommodation choices.
Each application will be assigned a randomly generated number, which is used to determine the order of allocation.
We then look at your accommodation choices and try to match these with vacant rooms.
If there are no vacancies in your chosen accommodation, we will offer you an alternative room using the 'alternative preferences' you’ve indicated in your application.
This application route is also used to apply for couple or family accommodation.
However, applicants for couple or family accommodation can only choose accommodation at Bowsden Court and will be asked to provide information about their household make-up as part of the application.
In the event of technical issues with the Advanced Booking application route, undergraduate students will also use this method to apply for accommodation.
In this instance, all affected students will be notified.
The Accommodation Portal will open on 10 June 2025.
To apply, you must have made Newcastle your firm choice - please note this can take up to 48 hours to update in the portal, so plan accordingly.
Postgraduate taught students are guaranteed accommodation through our Accommodation Guarantee , providing they meet the following eligibility criteria:
The Accommodation Portal will remain open from its launch date until noon on 28 July.
We encourage all applicants to apply before guarantee deadline.
To submit an application, follow the steps below:
Next, you'll choose how you're applying: as a single applicant, a couple, or a family.
You'll also inform us of any health needs that we need to consider, and whether you prefer single or mixed gender accommodation.
You'll then see the accommodation available to choose.
If you are applying after the guarantee date, you may notice that some accommodation is 'sold out'.
Pick your top accommodation choices and add them to your basket.
The page will display how many selections you need to make.
We'll then ask you for some additional information.
You'll tell us how we should process your application if there is no availability in your chosen accommodation.
You do this by ranking the accommodation attributes that are most important to you.
Depending on your application type, we may also ask you for your arrival and departure dates.
When you’ve completed your application, click submit.
If you change your mind about your preferences later, just log in to your accommodation portal to update your application.
You’re able to do this up until 30 June.
For postgraduate students, we will begin processing guaranteed applications from July 2025.
We'll continue processing applications until our accommodation reaches full capacity.
Your application will be given a random number which determines the order of allocation.
We'll try to match you to accommodation that you have chosen but this is not always possible.
If you are not guaranteed accommodation (for example, because you are a PGR student or your place was confirmed after the guarantee deadline), you can see how we'll process you in the 'non-guaranteed' section of our Accommodation Guarantee.
Advanced booking is exclusively available to full-year, single undergraduate applicants.
It allows eligible students to reserve a room immediately, depending on availability.
Submitting an application, on the other hand, is for postgraduate students, part-year students, couples, and families.
This route involves selecting your preferred accommodation options, after which we assign a room based on availability and preferences.
Couples and families can apply for accommodation using the submit an application route via the Accommodation Portal, which opens on 10 June 2025 .
The portal will close at noon on 28 July 2025 and will reopen again mid-August.
You can apply as soon as Newcastle is your firm choice, but please note that your application won’t be processed until your status is Unconditional Firm.
We recommend submitting your application as early as possible, as applications are processed in the order they are received starting from July onwards.
If you’re applying as a couple where both adults are Newcastle students, only one of you needs to submit the application.
Please note that couple accommodation is available only to spouses or cohabiting partners—not to friends or siblings.
While accommodation is not guaranteed under our Accommodation Guarantee for these groups, we will do our best to offer suitable options based on availability and preferences.
If you have a disability or health need that affects your accommodation, please indicate this in your accommodation application.
You should also complete the Disability and Health Information Form as soon as possible.
This helps our experienced team review your needs and work with you to find the most suitable room.
For detailed guidance, please visit our Applying for Accessible Accommodation page.
Yes, you can indicate this preference when you submit your application.
You’ll also have the opportunity to add this as a special request.
We will do our best to accommodate your needs depending on availability; however, please note that this cannot always be guaranteed.
Yes, PGR students can apply for accommodation via the Accommodation Portal once it opens on 10 June 2025.
Please note that accommodation is not guaranteed for PGR students, but we encourage you to apply.
Applications are assigned a random allocation number and are processed in that order once your status is ‘Unconditional Firm’.
We begin by processing applications from postgraduate students who are guaranteed accommodation in July.
After these are completed, we move on to applications from non-guaranteed students, including PGR applicants.
Offers will be communicated as allocations are made.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/applying-for-accommodation/part-year-student-accommodation:
Find out everything you need to know about part year accommodation.
If you're joining Newcastle University for part of the academic year, the options and ways to apply will depend on your exchange programme.
Find out more about the accommodation arrangement for your programme below.
When completing your application, our portal should recognise you as a part-year student.
If the system identifies you as a full-year student in error, please stop and contact us so we can amend your record.
This prevents you being offered unsuitable accommodation, or experiencing long delays.
If we suspect that we won’t be able to offer you a room, we will contact you as soon as we can.
We will approach accommodation providers in Newcastle to find out their availability and we will share this with you.
If you'd prefer to source your own accommodation privately, the Student Union's housing guide may help you with your search.
If you're coming to Newcastle from an EU exchange partner, whilst we can't guarantee you a room, we have secured additional accommodation and encourage you to apply.
We have 96 washbasin bedrooms at Leazes Parade .
These rooms are in a great location and have fantastic facilities such an onsite gym and cinema room.
As we are unable to guarantee you accommodation, these rooms are available on a first-come, first-served basis.
You will be able to reserve a room from 12 noon (UK time) on 25 June until the rooms sell out.
To secure a room, you must have an unconditional firm offer to study at Newcastle University.
You can then go to the portal and reserve your room straight away.
If you apply for accommodation later, your options may be limited.
Rooms are priced at £138.00 per week and contracts are available for:
Semester 1 : 9 September 2025 - 19 January 2026
Semester 2 : 21 January 2026 - 17 June 2026
If you're joining us from a non-EU exchange partner, we cannot guarantee you accommodation, however, we recommend that you still apply for accommodation as we can usually offer you a room.
To apply, you need to have a firm offer to study at Newcastle University.
You'll then submit an application where you pick your favourite accommodation.
As you're only here for one semester, you'll only be able to choose University-owned accommodation.
We will ask you to provide us with your expected arrival and departure dates.
We'll use these to match you to the most suitable contract period.
The contract periods available are:
Semester 1: 8 September 2025 - 4 or 18 January 2026
Semester 2: 21 January 2026 - 21 June 2026
You'll then submit an application where you pick your favourite accommodation.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/applying-for-accommodation/clearing:
Joining Newcastle University through Clearing or Insurance?
We're here to help.
We want you to have a great experience living with us - and that starts from the moment you apply.
If you’re joining Newcastle University through Clearing or as your Insurance choice, here’s how to secure your space.
Applications open at 10am on Monday 18 August and you’ll need to be a firm offer holder before you can apply.
This can take up to 48 hours after your offer is updated on UCAS - so plan accordingly.
We use an Advanced Booking system with live room availability, so you can see and reserve what’s available instantly.
To keep it fair, we’ll operate a queue for the Accommodation Portal.
Anyone arriving on the portal before 10am will wait in a pre-queue and will be assigned a random place in the queue when booking opens.
You’ll see real-time availability in the portal.
If your preferred residence or room type isn’t showing, it’s already been booked.
Our accommodation is popular and availability is limited, but we’re confident there’ll still be some great options.
Available rooms might not be in your first-choice location, but all our undergraduate accommodation is close to campus and the city centre.
If rooms fill up, we’ll open a waiting list and let you know if spaces become available (for example, if someone doesn’t accept their offer, withdraws, or defers).
If we can’t offer you a  room, we’ll connect you with trusted private student accommodation providers in the city and give you advice and support to help you find something suitable.
Accommodation availability is limited and we cannot guarantee that we will have a room that meets your needs .
Please complete and return a Disability and Health Information form as soon as possible.
We will then assess if a specialist allocation is required .
If so, we will attempt to find you a room suitable for your needs.
If you were a firm offer holder and reserved a room, but were unsuccessful, your reservation will have been cancelled.
If you then join us via Clearing and still need a room, please complete the form we’ll send you directly.
You can register on the accommodation portal once your record has downloaded into the accommodation system .
This can take between 24-48 hours after you have added your Clearing course to UCAS and this has been confirmed by Admissions.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/living-with-us:
Useful information for current and future residents.
Whether you’re moving in, currently living at the University, or moving out, we have all of the information you need.
Moving to University is an exciting time; find out about the arrival process, read our welcome booklets, and learn what you do and don't need to bring with you.
If you’re not happy with your room you may be able to swap rooms with another student, or transfer to an empty room in another residence.
Find out about the options available to you.
Our ResLife team are here to support you throughout your time at University, offering a range of social activities to meet new people, tips on how to hack independent living, and signposting to the right support for you.
Keeping yourself and others safe is important.
Find out about the safety measures we have in place, plus your responsibilities to ensure everyone remains safe while living in our residences.
Whether you’re nearing the end of your contract or leaving early, we’re here to help you through the process.
Find out what you need to do when moving out and what you should and shouldn’t leave behind.
All the information you need to know about living in our residences.
If you have a problem with your accommodation, the first step is to contact your accommodation reception who will help you to resolve any issues you may be experiencing.
If you need to report a fault to any fixtures or fittings, please visit our Report a Fault page.
We are not able to allow pets in accommodation, although there is an exception if you have a registered assistance dog that is required to perform certain tasks for you directly related to your disability.
If you require an assistance animal related to a medical need, please contact the allocations team to discuss your application.
There are various ways that you can pay for your accommodation.
There are options to pay in full before your arrival or in termly or monthly instalments.
Please visit Accommodation Payments to find out more.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/living-with-us/safety-and-security:
Your safety and security are our top priorities.
Your safety is our priority.
Most of our residences have on-site support during office hours, and via our campus security team is on call 24/7 via helpoints at each residence and our SafeZone app .
Always make sure to close and lock your windows and doors when you leave your room.
Our windows have restrictors to prevent over-opening – these should not be removed.
Never wedge your door open as it compromises the safety of you and your belongings.
Your key may be a door access card, like a hotel, or it could be a physical key that you turn to open and lock your door.
It's critical to keep your keys safe.
Do not label your keys with your address or leave them in bags with your identification.
If you lose your keys, it is important to notify us immediately.
You can do this by:
For more information, please refer to our Key Policy .
All University colleagues and contractors working on behalf of the University carry identification.
If someone requests access to your room without confirming who they are, please ask for their identification – a genuine caller will be happy to provide this.
You can also contact your reception during business hours, the Hub Reception outside of those hours, or call Security on 0191 208 6817.
The University’s Security team regularly patrols our residences and are available 24/7.
We also have a Northumbria Police Beat Manager on campus, who can be reached through Security.
It is important that you do not let strangers into your home.
Protect your valuable items, such as laptops and phones, by keeping them out of sight and securing them for free with Immobilise .
This is another reason why we recommend locking your bedroom/flat doors.
For your health and safety, you need to let us know if you’re going to be away for seven days or more.
Please see our insurance information for details about your Personal Possessions Insurance .
This insurance is included as standard in your accommodation contract.
Resident Engagement Strategy
It is important that you feel safe and secure in your University accommodation.
Our Resident Engagement Plan outlines how we will communicate with our residents about safety of our buildings and how you can get involved in the decisions we make to ensure your home remains a safe place to live.
You can read it here or request a copy from your accommodation Reception (relevant only for Park View Student Village)
If you find an issue with your accommodation or the surrounding grounds, it is important that you let us know as soon as possible.
Our Maintenance team will try to solve the problem quickly.
The electrical devices you bring into your room must comply with British Safety Standards regulations.
Information can be found in our Electric and Gas Safety section.
Make sure you dispose of food properly and keep the bins from overflowing.
All University-owned residences have designated bin storage areas.
If our colleagues observe anything concerning, this could lead to a specialist clean being carried out and the costs being charged to you.
For more information, refer to our Cleaning Standard .
It is important that you do not have items in your room that could be dangerous.
These items include: fireworks, knives, or airguns.
Heating equipment, including electric and gas heaters, cooking equipment, candles, oil lamps, or anything else with a flame are fire hazards and not allowed.
Check our Fire Safety section for more information.
If you want to bring furniture, ask your Residences Team for permission first.
They will make sure it follows the fire and safety guidelines.
You can view a copy of our Health and Safety policy at your residence reception.
If you have a disability or temporary mobility issue, reach out to your Residences Team as soon as possible.
They will make necessary arrangements, such as a personal evacuation plan for emergencies.
It is essential that you keep yourself safe when on campus, out in Newcastle, and when travelling to and from your accommodation.
Safezone is a free app that connects you to University Security immediately.
If you raise an alarm or call for assistance, on-campus security will be alerted so that they can help.
For overseas students new to the UK, The British Council has produced an International Student Safety Guide covering many areas of keeping safe.
If you experience an accident or have any concerns about your health and safety or that of a friend or fellow student, you should get in touch with your residence reception.
In an emergency, call security on 0191 208 6817.
They are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, to help with emergencies.
We work hard to make sure that our residences are fire-safe.
Here are some things you can do to keep yourself and your friends safe.
It is important that you understand what to do in the event of a fire.
Please don't take any chances.
The Tyne and Wear Fire and Rescue Service has produced a short video on fire safety for students.
We recommend that you watch it.
We are responsible for installing heat and smoke detectors in our University-owned residences.
These areas include: kitchens, passageways, and staircases.
We also ensure that bedrooms have multi-sensor smoke and/or heat detection equipment.
It is our responsibility to make sure that the equipment is working effectively.
We will carry out weekly fire alarm checks, which you will be informed about in advance.
During term one, we will conduct a fire evacuation drill which will help you know what to do in the event of a real incident.
You should treat this as an important safety feature.
If you do not evacuate, you will be subject to the University’s disciplinary procedures and may be fined.
We will provide personal evacuation plans or specialised equipment for students who have medical needs or mobility issues.
It is important that you know how to safely and calmly evacuate during a fire.
Please familiarise yourself with the ‘Fire Action’ notice in the kitchen, fire-fighting equipment, and the designated fire exits in your accommodation.
Fabrics should not be hung on walls, ceilings, or over electrical equipment.
You are not allowed to have the following items in your room as they are fire hazards:
You should never leave the kitchen unattended if you are cooking.
Our fire alarms are sensitive, so you need to keep fire doors closed when cooking and use the kitchen extractor to reduce the steam.
If you want to take advantage of nice weather and use a barbeque, you must get permission from the Assistant Residences Manager or Team Leader.
They will give you safety instructions and direct you to a suitable external area.
You should ensure you tidy-up the area when finished.
Shower steam can set off fire alarms so always close the bathroom door before and after showering.
You should always keep fire doors closed as they are an effective barrier to the spread of fire and smoke – do not wedge them open or tamper with their self-closing devices, or tamper with their self-closing devices.
You should report any fault or damage to a fire door immediately - to your reception (during office hours) or to Security (out of hours).
You should report any fault or damage to a fire door immediately.
Do this by contacting your reception during office hours or to Security out of hours.
You can find a fire blanket in your kitchen.
It is extremely dangerous to interfere with fire-fighting equipment, fire detection systems, notices and information or fire break glasses.
Do not cover the fire or smoke detectors.
If you see anyone misusing the equipment, please notify Security immediately.
These items are here for the safety of all residents and need to be used in the event of a real fire.
You will be subject to the University’s disciplinary procedures and may be fined if you set off a fire alarm or call the Fire and Rescue Service due to carelessness, negligence, or irresponsible behaviour.
Please notify Security if you use any fire-fighting equipment so that we can replace it.
If you hear a fire alarm, it is essential that you evacuate the building quickly and safely.
Even during a fire drill, you should assume it is a real fire.
Please follow these steps when the fire alarm sounds:
There are steps you can take to remain safe when using electricity and gas.
You can find the Guide to Appliances in each kitchen if you need help using the appliances in your accommodation.
It is important that you use mains electricity correctly.
If you do not, you could cause serious harm to yourself and others.
All portable electrical appliances that we provide, including lamps and microwaves, are tested annually.
Portable Appliance Testing (PAT) includes labelling each appliance with the date of the test and its pass/fail status.
If a device fails the test, you will be asked not to use it, and we may remove it before replacing the item.
For more information, refer to the Portable Appliance Testing document.
You have a responsibility to keep yourself and others safe, you therefore should not operate high-power appliances (rated at 1000 watts or higher) in your bedroom.
Check that cables from all your devices are safe and don't pose a fire or tripping hazard.
Your electrical devices must meet the British Safety Standards regulations.
If you’re an overseas student, it is important to make sure your travel adaptors are compliant with British Standard 1363.
You can find this information on the adaptor.
We check all gas appliances regularly.
Copies of Gas Safety Records are available from your reception.
We ask that you visit the Gas Safe Register website to understand how to use gas safely.
Please also see our Dangers of Carbon Monoxide document.
If you smell gas, you should follow these steps immediately:
You can prevent cooking accidents in your accommodation by staying in the kitchen while you cook, making sure to use the right utensils and cookware.
It is important to keep your appliances in good clean condition and follow cooking instructions carefully.
Keep flammable objects such as tea towels away from the hob and oven.
If you think one of your kitchen appliances is faulty, please report it immediately.
If you notice a safety hazard in your accommodation, you should report it immediately.
Depending on the severity of the hazard, you’ll need to report it in different ways.
To see if the hazard is classified as an emergency, visit our Reporting a Fault page.
If there is a fire, please call 999 immediately.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/living-with-us/moving-in:
Everything you need to know about moving into your new home.
Moving in is an exciting time for students and their families.
We look forward to meeting you in September.
To get yourself ready for a smooth and safe arrival, please follow these steps:
Don’t forget to share this information with anyone accompanying you so they know where to park and what to expect on arrival.
Before moving in, you’ll need to complete the following task:
Book your arrival slot:
Select your accommodation below for specific arrival details.
To get directions to your reception, type the address into your search browser, use a mobile map, or use the what3words prompt.
Saturday 13 September, 09:00 - 16:30
The INTO Building Newcastle University Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 7RS
Find us using what3words: robots.taking.wings
If you arrive after 14 September and outside of the usual reception opening hours (Monday - Friday, 08: 30 - 17 .00), please contact maintenance and security team using the above details.
Friday 12 September - Saturday 13 September, 08:30 - 16:30.
Bowsden Court South Gosforth Newcastle upon Tyne NE3 1RR
Find us using what3words: ahead.liability.raves
If you arrive after 14 September and outside of the usual reception opening hours (Monday - Friday, 08:00 - 12.00), please contact Estate Security Service using the above details.
13 September
If you need to arrive early, please contact Unite Students at:
Telephone: +44(0) 191 580 2320 Email: byroncentral@team.unitestudents.com
Once you’ve accepted your accommodation contract, you can book your arrival slot through the MyUnite app.
This slot gives you a one-hour window in which to plan your arrival.
Unite Students - Byron Central Byron St Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 1XH
Find us using what3words: eggs.comb.jungle
Windsor Terrace Jesmond Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4HE
Find us using what3words: theme.honey.fall
Kensington Terrace Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4BF
Find us using what3words: reduce.spell.beats
Thursday 11 September - Sunday 14 September, 08:30 - 16:30.
Estate Security Service Ground Floor Barras Building NE1 7RU
Find us using what3words: intent.evenly.agreed
Please note: the Barras Building is only your key collection point.
After collecting your keys, any accommodation enquiries should be directed to Kensington Terrace reception .
Grand Hotel 139A Percy Street Haymarket Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 7RE
From 21 September onwards, your key collection point will be:
Essential Student Living Leazes Parade Off Holland Drive Barrack Road Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4LB
Find us using what3words: smoke.flying.hunter
Telephone: +44(0) 191 231 4459 Email: manorbank@team.unitestudents.com
Unite Students - Manor Bank Pandon Bank Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 2JA
Find us using what3words: cubes.thin.tried
Thursday 11 September - Sunday 14 September, 08:30 - 16.30.
Park View Richardson Road Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4BS
Find us using what3words: impact.aims.smiled
Telephone: 0117 302 7361 Email: newgatecourt@team.unitestudents.com
Newgate Court Grainger Street Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 5AT
Find us using what3words: poetic.reef.pardon
Bryson Court Portland Road Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 1DT
Find us using what3words: going.future.party
The View Student Accommodation Barrack Rd Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 4SH
Find us using what3words: pill.crust.remark
Verde Student Accommodation Pitt St Newcastle upon Tyne NE4 5TH
Find us using what3words: highs.orchestra.able
Telephone: 0191 232 6821 Email: wellingtonstplaza@team.unitestudents.com
Wellington St Plaza Wellington Street Newcastle upon Tyne NE4 5SA
Find us using what3words: sharp.into.solar
If you're arriving to University-owned accommodation outside of our staffed arrival hours, that's no problem.
Please refer to the out of hours key collection guidance for your residence.
We recommend downloading this to your mobile device or printing it off.
For those of you arriving at our managed partnership accommodation (Byron Central, Leazes Parade, Manor Bank, Portland Green, The View, Verde, Wellington Street Plaza), you will be contacted by the accommodation provider and our Global Opportunities teams directly.
If you have any queries about your arrival to these sites, please get in touch with them.
The items you will need to bring when moving into your room will differ depending on which accommodation you have been assigned.
Here is a general list of items that you may need:
There are also a few general items you should not bring with you when moving into your accommodation.
Here are a few listed:
You can pre-order bedding and kitchen essentials from UniKitOut .
Simply select the items you need and UniKitOut will deliver these straight to us before your arrival.
Alternatively, we are a city centre university, with many shops nearby that you would be able to purchase these items from.
You can save 10% by using the discount code NEWC10

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/living-with-us/leaving-us:
Whether you're at the end of your contract, or leaving early, we’re here to help.
We hope you've had a brilliant time living in accommodation but all good things must come to an end and you'll need to move out when your contract ends.
Don't worry, you'll receive a departure email from our Customer Services team with everything you need to know about the moving out process.
You're responsible for leaving your accommodation in the same condition as when you arrived - use our handy Departure Checklist to make sure that you have done everything you need to before you leave us.
If you have any questions about moving out, please get in touch .
When leaving your accommodation, it is vital that you take all of your belongings with you.
You're responsible for making sure the room is left empty so that our team can make sure your room is thoroughly cleaned for the next tenant.
If you have belongings or food that you no longer need, consider donating them.
We work with the British Heart Foundation to collect supplies every year.
We also collaborate with local food banks to collect unopened, long-life items and the Students' Union organises the "Leave Newcastle Happy" initiative, which limits waste.
Find out more about how to donate different items below.
If you are unsure what can be donated or need more help, contact ResLife .
In your student village’s reception or social space, you’ll see a ResLife ReHome donation box.
There are lots of useful items you can donate to help future students, including:
kitchenware (pots, pans, cutlery, plates, mugs)
stationery
clothes airers and hangers
unused toiletries
non-perishable food
decorative items (policy-compliant)
reusable home essentials
Drop off your items anytime during Term Three before you leave—your donation could make a big difference to someone arriving in September.
Any unopened, non-perishable food can be donated.
Come down to your student village’s ResLife space during its opening hours and put it in our boxes.
We will then donate what we can to food banks.
The kind of things we are looking for are:
Newcastle University doesn’t accept bikes but don’t worry, there are places still to donate them.
Check out Recyke Y’Bike in Byker.
They accept all bikes, no matter their quality!
Some items we cannot accept due to health & safety, these include:
Your contract with us does not include a notice period.
This means that if you decide to leave early, you'll be responsible for paying rent until the contract ends.
If you find someone to replace you and move into your room, they can take over your contract and payments (if they are not already contracted for University accommodation).
Find out more about this in the Residences Handbook 24-25.
If we know of anyone looking for a room in your residence then we may be able to help you find a suitable replacement to take over your tenancy.
Although we will try to help, the responsibility to find a replacement remains with you.
To start the process, you must submit a re-let form to notify us that you wish to end your contract.
To request the re-let form, email allocations-enquiries@ncl.ac.uk.
You're responsible for paying rent till the end of your contract.
If a replacement tenant is found, you'll be relieved of your tenancy as of the start of their new contract.
There is a £50 admin fee for the takeover.
Your rent will be adjusted based on full value, and any overpayment will be refunded.
If you withdraw from the University, it is your responsibility to let us know .
Your school won't necessarily tell us, so you need to keep us informed.
Liability terms vary for students living in partnership accommodation.
Contact your accommodation provider for more information.
The information below relates to students living in university-owned accommodation only.
We only end contracts if you're no longer a registered student at Newcastle University.
If you withdraw, you'll be charged full rent for the termly billing period.
The termly billing periods are:
Notify us of your withdrawal by completing our re-let form.
To request the re-let form, email allocations-enquiries@ncl.ac.uk .
Please check out of your room, making sure to remove all your belongings, and return the key to reception before the end of the billing period to ensure your release from the contract at that time.
Find out what you need to do if you want to return to our accommodation next year.
If you'd like to continue living in the city beyond the academic year we have options available to extend your stay.
While we do not advertise private properties to rent, you can book an appointment with NUSU who offer housing advice, and our ResLife team can help you find the perfect flatmates through their 'Find a Flatmate' events.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/living-with-us/leaving-us/returning-next-year:
We have a limited number of rooms available for eligible full-year registered students who currently live with us and will be studying at the University for the next academic year, 2025-26.
If you are eligible, we will contact you to provide further information on how to apply.
We have now contacted all eligible students.
Find out more about eligibility criteria below.
If you do not match the criteria, please don't worry.
While we won't be able to accept your application for University accommodation, the city offers a wide variety of private student accommodation, from purpose-built flats, to student house shares.
If you have a medical need which impacts where you live, you may be eligible to return to University accommodation.
We have now contacted students that may be eligible for the offer to return for the next academic year, 2025-26.
If you have not been contacted and feel your medical condition should be taken into consideration to return into university accommodation, you can contact us at accommodation.medical@newcastle.ac.uk .
2022-23 was the last cohort of students who were eligible to stay in university-owned accommodation for the full duration of their undergraduate degree.
To ensure we can continue to meet the terms of our guarantee to new students we are no longer able to offer this.
We have now contacted students that are eligible for the offer to return for the next academic year, 2025-26.
To fulfil our New Student Guarantee, we are unfortunately not able to offer our current residents accommodation for the next academic year.
For help with your search for private accommodation, visit NUSU Housing Advice.
(Updated Feb 2025)
If you are continuing your studies into the 2024-25 academic year and remaining in Newcastle, you are advised to look in the private sector for accommodation.
Our family and couples’ accommodation is limited, and unfortunately, we are not able to offer current students accommodation for the next academic year.
For help with your search for private accommodation: NUSU Housing Advice .
If you don’t meet the criteria to return next year, we won’t be able to provide you with accommodation.
Don't worry, Newcastle has a range of accommodation for students, either in purpose-built accommodation in the city centre, or private housing in neighbouring local communities such as Jesmond, Heaton and Sandyford.
For more information about these options, please visit the Student Advice Centre .
If you are eligible to return to our accommodation next year we will contact you to provide further information about your options and invite you to apply.
Find a flatmate

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/living-with-us/leaving-us/extending-your-stay:
We understand that your life in Newcastle doesn't end just because the academic year has.
We understand that many students require accommodation during the summer months.
As summer is also a busy time for our teams’ preparing rooms for the upcoming academic year, availability is limited.
For undergraduate students currently living in university accommodation, we have a limited number of rooms available at Windsor Terrace.
This accommodation features shared bathrooms and will be allocated on a first-come, first-served basis and is available until 24 August.
Unfortunately, we are unable to offer extensions for postgraduate students beyond 24 August.
We have reached out to couples and families to discuss their plans for the period after their current contract ends.
Families will be contacted directly with further information.
For details about full-year accommodation extensions, please visit Returning Next Year .
If you are currently living in University-owned accommodation and are considering staying over the summer, please keep an eye out for an email inviting you to express your interest.
Room availability is limited, so we can't guarantee accommodation over the summer months.
Summer accommodation will be available in Windsor Terrace for summer 2025.
There is a minimum booking requirement of one week and this is priced at £129.50 per week.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/living-with-us/room-changes:
Wanting to change your room?
Here's what you need to know.
We know where you’re living has a huge impact on your University experience, and if you’re not happy with your room, there are options available.
Residents in University-owned accommodation may be able to swap rooms with another student, or transfer to an empty room in another residence.
Find out more about both options below.
Students living in managed partnership accommodation are not eligible for a room transfer to a University-owned accommodation and vice versa; if you'd like to change rooms within a managed partner accommodation you will need to find a swap or transfer internally.
It's best to speak to your accommodation provider directly about this.
While we try to allocate you to a room of your choice, sometimes we cannot meet every request.
Room swaps offer you the chance to change rooms and find something that suits you better.
You can arrange a swap before you arrive on campus or during your tenancy.
If you wish to exchange before you arrive, both students must be comfortable with the arrangement without seeing the room.
We have a dedicated Facebook page where you can post details about your room and the type of room you are looking for.
It is your responsibility to find someone to swap with.
We can usually only accept room swaps from students of the same gender and level of study (undergraduate or postgraduate).
Room swaps are not appropriate for individuals who have already left their room to live elsewhere.
If you find another Newcastle University student to swap with before arriving on campus, you can submit a request by emailing allocations-enquiries@ncl.ac.uk .
All we need from both of you is your names, student numbers, and room details so that we can check if a swap is possible.
If approved, new contracts will be sent via email.
If you've already moved into your room, you will need to contact the Accommodation team to see if the swap is possible.
From there, you can schedule a viewing of each other's rooms to make sure you're both happy with the exchange.
Please get in touch after you've agreed a move-in date to arrange for a new accommodation contract to be provided.
When swapping rooms, it is your responsibility to make sure that your room is clean and ready for the next occupant.
The Accommodation Service will not provide any additional cleaning services.
New contracts will be provided by the Allocations team, and keys must be returned to the Customer Services Reception upon departure.
When you arrive at your new residence, you will collect the keys to your new room from the Customer Services Reception and sign the appropriate registration card.
It is important to note that you must go through the official channels when swapping rooms, as the acceptance of a Newcastle University accommodation offer includes a legally and financially binding contract.
Accommodations Service will ensure that both students are supported through the process.
A room transfer is when a student applies to be assigned to a different, currently vacant room.
Applications are typically available in November and are processed on a first-come, first-served basis.
If you're in managed partnership accommodation at Newcastle University, you can only change rooms if another student moves into yours.
The Accommodation team will help you with this, but we can't guarantee we will find someone.
The availability of all room swaps and transfers is subject to change.
Room Transfer Requests are not yet open.
You will receive an email when it comes to this time.
Applications for a room transfer are processed on a first-come, first-served basis.
Please note that students with outstanding charges will not be able to transfer rooms.
In the event of a successful transfer, there will be no rent gap between the two tenancies, and students must promptly return their key within 24 hours to avoid being charged for both rooms.
A room swap is when two students exchange rooms.
This will usually happen if you are unhappy with the room you have been allocated.
Room swaps can only happen between students of the same gender and level of study.
A room transfer is when you relocate to an empty room within Newcastle University residences.
Students living in managed partnerships are not eligible for a room transfer to a University-owned accommodation and vice versa, they will need to find a swap or transfer internally.
Finding someone to swap rooms with may take some searching.
If a room transfer is not possible, your request will remain open.
If an empty room becomes available, we will let you know.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/living-with-us/current-residents:
Everything you need to know.
From how to receive your post, to what to do when visitors come to stay, we have all of the information you need to know whilst living in our Accommodation.
A basic level of contents insurance is included in the price of your accommodation.
Find out what's covered, how to make a claim, and how to add extra items such as bicycles.
Find out how to receive post and parcels at your residence, including which address to use, where your parcels will go for collection, and 'click and collect' options.
Learn how to support the University's Environment Sustainability policy whilst living in accommodation through energy and water conservation and recycling.
We have limited parking and lockable bicycle storage options at of our residences; find out how to book yours.
Find out who you need to inform if you're having guests to stay or are leaving your room for a short period.
If you have any faults or damages in your accommodation, let us know as soon as possible.
If you have any issues or need support while living in University accommodation, you can reach out to your reception or ResLife team for assistance.
We're always happy to help.
The University also offers a wide range of support services.
The ResLife team at Newcastle University is dedicated to ensuring that students in University-owned and managed partnership accommodation have a positive and successful transition to university.
Our team is committed to making your time at the University enjoyable by providing support and facilitating the creation of new friendships.
Recyclable items should be sorted based on the type of material they are made of, such as paper, plastic, glass, or metal.
Each of our Newcastle University-owned residences has the appropriate collection points for you to recycle.
Some common categories for recyclables include:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/living-with-us/current-residents/insurance:
A basic level of contents insurance is provided for you when you live in University-owned or managed partner accommodation.
Find out more about what's included and how to make a claim.
As a student living in Newcastle University-owned accommodation, you are insured by Cover4Students , a trading style of UK & Ireland Insurance Services Ltd.
The insurance is included in the price of your accommodation, so there is no extra charge unless you choose to top-up your policy to cover extra items such as bicycles.
The coverage guarantees the protection of your valuables while they are in your accommodation.
Once you move out, your belongings will no longer be insured.
Your cover will protect you against theft, fire, lightning, explosion, and vandalism, as well as damage caused by burst pipes, storms, or floods.
For people living alone, personal possessions are covered up to a limit of £10,000 per claim.
Your coverage is increased to £12, 000 if you live with a partner or family.
Please keep in mind that some things, such as bicycles or high-value products, may require additional coverage.
This is not included under the basic cover, and separate arrangements must be made to insure them.
Visit the Cover4Insurance website for a better understanding of what is and is not covered and what extras you can add for an additional cost.
View our Personal Possessions Insurance and Insurance Policy 25/26
We recommend that you familiarise yourself with the process on the cover4students website, including the terms and conditions.
To make an insurance claim, please follow these steps:
- the time of the incident
- the name of the person who discovered it
- the police officer and police station informed
- a list of missing items
- the method by which thieves gained entry
- Crime reference number
Claims will be settled on a "new-for-old" basis, meaning that all insured items (excluding clothing, linen, and rented household goods) will be replaced with new items at current prices, regardless of age or condition.
Note: Proper documentation is crucial to a successful insurance claim.
Make sure you have all the necessary information and follow the steps outlined above.
Your managed partnership accommodation charges include personal possessions insurance.
This means your belongings are insured while they are in your accommodation for the duration of your contract.
For more information about your policy, please refer to your accommodation site for specific policy details:
Having insurance for your belongings ensures that you are covered if something is lost, stolen, or damaged.
When booking your accommodation through the University, insurance is included in your accommodation contract.
This will usually cover the cost of replacing personal items however all insurance policies have terms and conditions that you should familiarise yourself with so that you understand what is and isn't covered.
If you’re not living in University-owned or managed partnership accommodation, you won't be covered by our insurance schemes and should look to purchase your own cover.
Cover4Students offers a 10% discount on their Student Possessions Insurance for Newcastle University students who choose to live in private accommodation.
Visit their website to find out more.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/living-with-us/current-residents/parking-bicycle-storage:
We have parking and lockable bike storage available.
We have 40 resident parking spaces available at Bowsden Court.
We do not offer resident parking spaces at any of our other accommodation.
Parking permits are booked per term and are allocated on a first come, first served basis.
If you’re an undergraduate student wishing to park for the entire year, you should book a permit for terms one, two, and three.
Postgraduate students who wish to park over the summer must also book for term four.
You can apply for a parking permit below.
Blue Badge holders are entitled to free permits.
We have a limited number of accessible parking spaces at Park View, Marris House, Kensington and Park Terraces, and Windsor Terrace.
Please contact the accommodation reception directly for more information.
If you've got any questions about accommodation parking, please contact the relevant accommodation reception .
Permits for Bowsden Court are free and only valid at Bowsden Court.
Permits cannot be used on campus or at any other accommodation location.
Book a permit for Bowsden Court .
Subject to parking bay availability, parking permits can be allocated should you require use of your car due to a temporary mobility impairment.
Please contact the Customer Services team at your accommodation reception to discuss you r change in circumstances .
All requests will be assessed on an individual basis .
Permits must be displayed in the windscreen and vehicles must be parked in a marked bay, within the designated resident parking area at the specified residence on the permit.
By entering and remaining on the property of the University, you agree to the conditions indicated on the parking notices displayed and are contracted to be legally bound by them.
For payment and queries regarding a Parking Charge, the following contact information can be used:
Public parking is available Monday to Friday 17.00 to 00.00, Saturday and Sunday 06.00 to 00.00 at Marris House, Windsor Terrace, and various campus locations.
Public parking bays are clearly marked by signage.
Parking tariffs apply and can be paid via the Pay by Phone app.
Enforcement action will be taken if public parking conditions are breached.
Use the online form to register to use lockable bike storage.
Residence
Lockable storage
External racks
Total spaces
Bowsden Court
50
8
58
Kensington Terrace and Park Terrace
0
30
Marris House
6
Park View
46
72
124
Windsor Terrace
10
We may occasionally need to suspend access to bike parking areas to enable maintenance access.
We'll give you at least two weeks’ notice so that you can remove your bike.
If you fail to do so, the bike will be removed.
The bike storage is not insured, and your standard Personal Possessions Insurance (provided as part of your accommodation contract) does not cover bikes.
You are advised to use a strong lock and to take out extended insurance cover .
Your bike must be removed at the end of your contract period.
Due to a lack of storage space, abandoned bikes will be given to charity.
All residents and visitors may use the outside bike racks on a first come, first served basis.
You do not need to request permission.
If you have any questions regarding bike storage, please feel free to reach out to your accommodation reception.
There are no student parking facilities on the University main campus.
There is limited resident parking available at Bowsden Court.
See above for details.
As per the terms of your contract, you should not store your bicycle inside your room or anywhere inside our accommodation due to safety and space restrictions.
It is advisable to use the designated bicycle storage facilities at your accommodation or on campus.
Due to high demand for bike storage, applications for storage of a second bike will only be processed if availability allows.
We recommend checking with the accommodation reception in advance to ensure that there is enough space to store multiple b ikes before travelling to your accommodation .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/living-with-us/current-residents/post-and-parcels:
Learn about how to receive post and parcels in your accommodation.
Find out your postal address, where your post will be delivered, and how parcels can be collected.
Depending on where you live, the process may be different, so please read the below information carefully to make sure your post and parcels reach you safely.
Letters and small parcels delivered by Royal Mail will be placed in your flat/floor’s letterbox, located in or near your building.
You can access your mailbox at any time using your key/key card.
Don’t forget to lock the letterbox after accessing it.
For parcels that are too large for your letterbox, are delivered by a courier other than Royal Mail, or require a signature, we will take them in at reception on your behalf, log them on our computer system, and store them for collection.
Please note, due to health and safety reasons, reception will not accept items that are too large/heavy for one person to handle.
If you live at Carton Lodge, Jesmond Road, Windsor Terrace, or Grand Hotel, and the above instances occur, couriers should deliver your package to the Kensington Terrace reception if they’re unable to deliver it to you.
For those of you that live in Bowsden Court, if your parcel is unable to be delivered to you, it should be delivered to Bowsden Court reception.
Once there, it will be entered into our system and kept in storage until you can pick it up.
If your parcel arrives at any of our receptions, please wait for an email notification from Newcastle University, and not the courier/sender.
As we receive hundreds of parcels per day, it can take a little bit of time to process them after the courier has delivered them, and our team will unfortunately be unable to locate your item until it has been logged and stored.
If you haven’t received a notification within 24 hours of its delivery, then please don’t hesitate to visit us at reception to ensure there hasn’t been an IT issue.
Please bring photographic ID (preferably your student ID as we can scan its barcode and save you a wait!).
You can collect your parcels during the reception’s opening hours.
We aim to log parcels on the day of their delivery, however we’re not always able to process parcels that arrive in the late in afternoon.
This may mean that if you parcel is delivered late afternoon on Friday, it might not be ready for collection until Monday.
If you urgently require a parcel and are unable to wait, you may be better to use a click and collect option nearby.
Please be aware that food deliveries will not be accepted and must be delivered to you directly.
Additionally, items on your tenancy agreement's prohibited list will not be accepted.
Deliveries cannot be accepted until you have completed the check-in process, and it is recommended that you not order items for delivery prior to your arrival, as they may be rejected and returned to the sender.
If you live at Carton Lodge, Jesmond Road, Windsor Terrace, or Grand Hotel, it should also be noted that some couriers may choose to return the parcel to their collection point or depot rather than bring it to Kensington Terrace reception.
For instance, Amazon couriers may not be able to bring your parcel to the reception.
It is recommended that you have your Amazon parcels delivered to an Amazon locker, as there are several lockers nearby.
Use the below addresses for your post and parcel deliveries.
For all items of post or parcels, you should use the following address format:
[Name]
[Flat/block and room number]
South Gosforth
Newcastle upon Tyne
NE3 1RR
[Building, Flat (if applicable) and Room number]
Jesmond Road W
Jesmond
NE2 4EU
[Room number]
Grand Hotel
139A Percy Street
Haymarket
NE1 7RE
Kensington and Park Terrace
Park Terrace:
[Flat and Room number]
Park Terrace
NE2 4BB
Kensington Terrace:
[House and Room number]
Kensington Terrace
NE2 4BF
[Room and flat number]
Park View Student Village
Richardson Road
[Postcode for your building]
Alwin - NE2 4BS, Breamish - NE2 4BT, Derwent - NE2 4BU, Irthing - NE2 4BX, Pont - NE2 4BY, Rede - NE2 4BZ, Marris - NE2 4BE
NE2 4HE
We aim to have your parcels ready for pickup as soon as possible.
Due to high volume and limited hours, this may not always happen as quickly as desired.
If you need your parcel quickly or need to pick it up after outside of reception opening hours, we recommend using a nearby click and collect location.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/living-with-us/current-residents/visitors-and-going-away:
Find out what you need to do when guests come to stay or you're temporarily going away.
So that we can ensure everyone is safe and accounted for, there's a few things you need to do if you're going to have visitors to stay in your accommodation with you, or you're leaving your room for a few days.
We want you to feel at home during your time living in University Accommodation and understand that having friends to stay is part of that.
However, the safety and comfort of everyone living in our residences is extremely important, so we have some rules in place for overnight guests to keep you, your flatmates, and your guests safe and happy.
You are responsible for your guests and their behaviour at all times, so it’s important to only invite guests to stay who you know well and trust.
It’s also recommended to let your flatmates know when you’re having guests to stay, to avoid any shocks or awkward encounters if they find a stranger in the kitchen or bathroom.
Overnight guest conditions:
The number of visitors you may have, and the length of time they can stay, depends on your accommodation type.
You are welcome to have one overnight guest to stay with you for up to two consecutive nights, and up to three nights in a seven-day period.
You should not have more than one overnight visitor at a time, allow an overnight visitor to stay for longer than two consecutive nights, or have an overnight visitor on more than three nights in any seven-day period (whether the same visitor or different ones).
It’s important that you never give your keys to any visitors, and you should stay with your visitor whilst they are in the building (i.e., do not go out and leave them in your residence).
You are welcome to have two overnight guests to stay with you for up to seven consecutive nights in a twenty-eight-day period.
You should not have more than two overnight visitors at a time, allow overnight visitors to stay for longer than seven consecutive nights, or have overnight visitors on more than seven nights in any twenty-eight-day period (whether the same visitor or different ones).
Guest Keys
If you have a visitor staying between three to seven nights, we’ll issue them a guest key.
It’s important that you never give your keys to any visitors.
You are responsible for your guests’ keys.
If you or your guest/s lose a key, replacements can be issued at residence receptions.
Replacement keys will only be issued once security checks have been undertaken to confirm identity.
If you or your guest/s lose a key when the reception is closed, the Estate Security Service can help on 0191 208 6817 or via the SafeZone app .
You are responsible for returning your guests’ keys at the end of their stay.
If the guest key is lost, you must report this before your guest leaves.
Electronic access fobs/card will be cancelled to prevent further access from 10:00 on the last day of the stay, therefore please ensure your guest does not require access after this time.
If you would like to have an overnight guest to stay, please complete the request form giving at least two working days’ notice (Mon-Fri.
For weekend guests, forms must be received by 10.00 Thursday morning).
We are aware that you may be away for an extended period of time, particularly during the holidays.
For the health and safety of all residents, you must inform us if you will not be in your residence for a period of seven days or more during your tenancy.
To do so, please fill out this form .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/living-with-us/current-residents/energy-and-recycling:
We encourage all residents to think about their environmental responsibility.
Find out more about the steps you can take while living in accommodation.
As residents of our community, we strongly encourage you to embrace your environmental responsibility and show your support for the University's Environment Sustainability Policy .
To make this easier for you, we offer a variety of resources and recycling options on-site.
Here are a few simple steps you can take to reduce your impact on the environment:
All student kitchens have bins for dry mixed recycling, glass, food waste, and non-recyclables.
Recyclable items should be sorted into the correct categories.
Each of our Newcastle University-owned residences has clearly marked collection points to help you recycle correctly.
The main categories are:
For more information or advice, stop by your accommodation reception or visit the University's Waste A-Z
To save energy, turn off all lights and unplug electronics when they are not in use, especially before leaving your room.
This includes your television, phone charger, and computer.
When you're not using the tap, turn it off and report any drips/leaks to Reception.
Avoid letting the tap run while brushing your teeth.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/living-with-us/student-experience/reslife:
ResLife supports all of our students within University-owned and managed partnership accommodation.
We’re here to make your first year the best it can be as you make the transition into higher education and independent living.
ResLife are here to help you with all aspects of settling into university life, from arriving at your new home, to making friends, finding your way around campus, and becoming an active member of your academic community.
The ways we support you include:
And it doesn’t stop here.
We will support you in preparing yourself to find your home for second year.
Our lively student communities create a sense of belonging throughout your stay.
Wherever you live, you’ll be a part of a safe and fully inclusive community within our two student villages - Park View Student Village (PVSV) and Kensington/Park Student Village (KPSV).
Each of these villages have a dedicated ResLife Coordinator, who is supported by ResLife Student Assistants to help the social, academic and personal integration of new students into our accommodation.
Each student village has its own unique feel and vibrant atmosphere.
If you’re living in a managed partnership accommodation, you still belong to one of our student villages:
Bernicia - Kensington Park Student Village Rosedale Court - Kensington Park Student Village Turner Court - Kensington Park Student Village Byron Central - Kensington Park Student Village Manor Bank - Kensington Park Student Village Leazes Parade - Park View Student Village Newgate Court – Park View Student Village The View - Park View Student Village Verde - Park View Student Village Wellington St Plaza – Park View Student Village
Social space locations and what3words:
Park View (Irthing Block) ResLife Social Space what3words: leaps.pilots.tile
Bowsden Court (Block 33) ResLife Social Space what3words: handed.hung.equal
Kensington Terrace ResLife Social Space what3words: live.such.note
PVSV includes Park View, Marris House, Leazes Parade, The View, Verde, Newgate Court and Wellington St Plaza and has the largest number of students of all of the villages.
This makes for a lively residence.
Your ResLife Coordinator is Peter - get in touch.
Those who are assigned to Peter can attend Park View Irthing and Marris House.
KPSV is home to the most residences and includes; Kensington and Park Terraces, Windsor Terrace, Bernicia, Manor Bank, Carlton Lodge,  Jesmond Road, Grand Hotel, Bowsden Court, Byron Central, Turner Court and Rosedale Court.
All these residences are very different to each other, but they’re all known for their charm and tight-knit communities.
Your ResLife Coordinator is Stephen - get in touch.
Those assigned to Stephen can attend Kensington/Park and 16 Windsor Terrace.
ResHacks teaches you everything you need to know about independent living, and transitioning into University.
Topics include:
Keep an eye on our social media channels to stay up to date with all things ResLife:
ResLife deliver sessions on some very important subjects, which you could be asked to attend because of an incident.
These sessions are designed to give you an opportunity to reflect on your behaviours, and make sure you're up to scratch ready for when you move into the wider community in second year.
At the end of these sessions, you'll have gained a better understanding of the subject, and will be more familiar with the University's wider welfare support services.
The Student Behaviour team will invite you to directly to book onto one of these sessions, when required.
From social events to life skills workshops, ResLife has something for everyone.
We’re here to build a sense of belonging and community through an organised events programme running 6 days/week.
ResLife activities include:
Discover what students think of their experience at Newcastle University.
See our Testimonials.
Our Student Experience Manager oversees both the ResLife Team and the Student Behaviour Team, who are there to support an environment where your personal and academic goals can be achieved.
Your Student Experience Manager is Amy McCarthy Get in touch: Amy.McCarthy@newcastle.ac.uk
Within each student village, ResLife is overseen by a dedicated RLC.
This person looks after the team of RSAs, works collaboratively with other University services to ensure the smooth delivery of events, and supports your ResLife programme.
They also provide student support within your Student Village - running ReConnect Zoom drop-ins online.
Your Kensington/Park Student Village RLC is Stephen Olver Get in touch: ResLifeKPSV@newcastle.ac.uk
Your Park View Student Village RLC is Peter Hunter Get in touch: ResLifePVSV@newcastle.ac.uk
Your RSAs are experienced students who have previously lived in our accommodation and are able to draw upon their own experiences to help you with problems - from missing home to academic worries.
They’ll also help you build skills to live independently, guiding you through challenging discussions with flat mates, as well as running drop-in sessions for you to come to when you need to talk to someone.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/living-with-us/student-experience/find-a-flatmate:
The ResLife Find a Flatmate scheme supports first-year students with top-tips on finding the right home for your second year and living with the right people.
Our busy social calendar allows great opportunity to meet and connect with new people, make new friends, and possibly even find potential housemates for your second year.
ResLife also team up with NUSU’s Student Advice Centre , who offer drop-ins within your village spaces, and are available on-campus to support you with looking for, living in and leaving your property.
ResLife work collaboratively to bring you everything you need to know from where to live, to signing a guarantor, to living harmoniously with your flatmates.
Finally, in Term Two, if you still haven’t found the right people to live with, ResLife offer a WhatsApp group across both our villages and private housing sector, to bring like-minded students together and hopefully secure accommodation for second year.
You can find out more from the below resources;

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/living-with-us/policy:
Read our policies which form part of our terms and conditions.
Take a moment to read through our policies, which outline important information and are a part of the terms and conditions of living in our residences.
If you have any questions or need further clarification get in touch , we're here to help.
Please also take a look at our Residents Handbook ( Residents Handbook ) and our Terms and Conditions ( Terms and Conditions 2025-26 - Standard ) or ( Terms and Conditions 2025-26 - Family ).
These policies are for the academic year 2024-25.
If you require a previous version of a policy, please Contact Us .
Our Allocations Policy outlines the University's approach to processing applications for accommodation.
The Alcohol and Drugs Policy deals with the consequences of incidents that happen when illegal substances, alcohol and smoking are involved.
The Assistance Dogs Policy outlines how Accommodation Services will manage Assistance Dogs within University-owned accommodation.
The Body Worn Video Policy explains the use of BWV technology by operational security staff to help maintain a safe and secure environment.
Find out how we'll engage with you about building safety.
The Travel and Parking Policy explains the provision for the parking of motor vehicles and bicycles in the private grounds of the University’s accommodation.
Everything you need to know about our compliments, comments and complaints procedure.
The Confiscation Policy details prohibited items to ensure the safety of residents, colleagues, and University property.
The Damage Policy explains what happens when damages to University property are identified and the costs associated with resident-attributed damage.
The Heating Policy explains when heating will be provided, what the internal temperature should be, and energy conservation measures.
The Inconvenience Payment Policy explains what compensation you will receive due to the loss of a major service such as heating/hot water to your residence.
The Key Policy details the responsibilities of any person issued with a key for University accommodation to ensure personal security, privacy, and property protection.
The Lost Left Property Policy explains our approach to any lost or left property found on site, your responsibilities, and how to claim your property.
The Portable Appliance Testing Policy explains our responsibility to ensure that transportable electrical equipment, supplied within University Owned Accommodation, is maintained in a safe condition.
Read the latest terms and conditions for booking staff and visitor accommodation.
The Under 18s Policy explains our approach to safeguarding any under-18s living in University-owned or managed partner accommodation.
If important you tell us if you are going away from the accommodation for a short time.
Find out how to do so here.
Having a friend or a family member over to stay, make sure you let us know.
You may also find the following information of benefit to you while living in our residences:
You find our Cleaning Service Level Standards here:
Our policies have been put in place to ensure our residences are a safe environment for all.
Failure to follow the policies may lead to disciplinary action being taken against you, with outcomes ranging from safety training to a monetary fine or eviction.
The policies we have apply to all of our University-owned accommodation.
As a result, regardless of which accommodation you are assigned, we recommend that you read and follow them.
Managed partnership accommodation may have their own policies so it is important that you also read through them when signing your contract.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/payments:
Paying your rent is important, so make sure you know when your rent is due.
Find out our payment collection dates which differ depending on if you have chosen to pay in advance or via termly or monthly instalments
Did you know that you'll receive a 2% discount if you pay your rent upfront?
Find out about the various ways that you can pay your accommodation fees, from direct debit instalments to upfront payments.
The payment methods for managed partnership accommodation differ from University-owned.
Find out how you can pay your rent if living in a managed partner accommodation.
Find out how adjusting your rent works after transferring or swapping rooms, whether there'll be any additional fees for your new room, and how to request refunds if applicable.
The Student Financial Support Team can offer advice and guidance on budgeting, money management, and financial assistance .
Impartial advice is also available from is also available from Information Now , Welfare Rights , Step Change , National Debtline , Money Helper or the local Citizens Advice Bureau .
There are different options available for paying for your accommodation including paying in advance or paying by Direct Debit installments.
These options will differ depending on whether you’re in University-owned, managed partnership accommodation, or private housing.
Find out more about University Payment Methods or refer to managed partnership .
If you think you might miss a payment, are experiencing financial difficulties, or have a failed Direct Debit, please contact us as soon as possible at Accommodation.Finance@ncl.ac.uk .
We’ll work with you to discuss your situation and explore the options available - our aim is to help you avoid additional charges wherever possible.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/payments/payment-methods:
Most of our students choose Direct Debit as their method of payment for their accommodation fees.
To set up a Direct Debit, you need to have a UK bank or building society.
If you are an overseas student and do not have this, you can set up a UK bank or building society account when you arrive in the UK.
A Direct Debit is a simple, safe, and convenient banking service.
It allows you to instruct your bank or building society to automatically pay your accommodation fees on the due date.
Once your Direct Debit is set up, you will get an email with the payment schedule and amounts due - this is known as an Advance Payment Notice.
We will then collect your accommodation fees on the collection dates outlined in the notice.
Any changes to the payment schedule will be communicated to you at least five working days in advance of the collection date .
To set up a Direct Debit to pay your accommodation fees:
Accommodation Services Newcastle University King's Gate Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 7RU
Find out when your payments are due and the last dates you can make changes to your direct debit.
If you need to make a change to your account, contact us .
2025-2026
2024-2025
Find out how you can pay your accommodation fees from the UK.
The following payments cards are accepted:
You can make a credit or debit card payment at any time using our Online Payment Portal .
Benefits for you:
If you make payment using the online payment portal, your payment will be allocated to your accommodation fee account on the next working day.
You can pay by open banking or by bank transfer using Newcastle University's Payment Platform.
Open Banking is a commonly used payment solution that allows you to make an online real-time payment by bank transfer from your UK bank account.
You will be required to authenticate the payment in the same way as if you are processing a bank transfer using online banking on your mobile or computer e.g.
a one-time passcode sent to you from your bank or facial recognition.
Payments are processed through Trustly, an Open Banking provider.
If you would prefer to pay by bank transfer this option is also available to you by using Newcastle University's Payment Platform .
Once you select pay by bank transfer you will receive the bank account details to make the payment to.
To make payment, visit Newcastle University's Payment Platform and in the ‘Paying Fees from’ drop down menu select United Kingdom.
Enter the amount you wish to pay and select Trustly to pay by Open Banking or select to pay by bank transfer.
FOR EVERY PAYMENT YOU MAKE TO CONVERA YOU MUST ENSURE YOU GO THROUGH THE PROCESS OF RECEIVING A NEW QUOTE.
THIS IS SO YOUR PAYMENT IS IDENTIFIED AND ALLOCATED TO YOUR ACCOMMODATION FEE ACCOUNT
Find out how you can pay your accommodation fees from International accounts.
The University has worked hard to develop good relationships with providers who can offer the most favourable payment methods and the most choice.
In addition, we know that these platforms are safe and secure which is something our students have said was important to them.
Newcastle University uses the same platforms as many UK Universities and offers a choice in provider with Flywire, Convera and Easy Transfer
Please take time to compare the rates with both providers before you make your decision.
Bank transfer is often the most favourable rate.
Convera and Flywire currently offer a price promise for payments by Bank transfer to give you confidence that you are getting a competitive price.
Easy Transfer offer low and transparent exchange rates
Payments via our partner Flywire will not charge extra if you choose to pay in your home currency.
Your payment will be allocated to your accommodation fee account when settled.
Unfortunately, if you pay using an overseas card you are not able to make payments in GBP using these cards.
We suggest that before contacting your bank and loading overseas cards in GBP to make a payment for your fees, you look at the payment platforms and look to see if that option is
Pay via Flywire on our Online Payment Portal
For every payment you make to Flywire you must ensure you go through the process of receiving a new quote .
This is so your payment is identified and allocated to your accommodation fee account.
In addition to bank transfer.
this is a sample of payment types accepted by Flywire dependant on the country you are making the payment from.
Please note that payments originating from the following areas cannot be made through Flywire:
Please contact our Accommodation team Accommodation.finance@ncl.ac.uk to discuss alternative payment arrangements.
Pay your fees with Convera
For every payment you make to Convera you must ensure you go through the process of receiving a new quote .
Please note that payments originating from the following areas cannot be made through Convera:
Students, parents and sponsors are able to pay student fees in their chosen currency via bank transfer.
You can also use a wide range of local online payment options, including Alipay, UnionPay and India NetBanking, without incurring any transaction charges.
Newcastle University has authorised Convera to accept International Payments on our behalf.
Convera hold accounts across the globe.
Depending on the country and currency selected will depend on the account the student is pointed towards.
You can watch this video to see how Convera works or follow Pay using Convera (pdf)
Benefits include:
Easy Transfer offer low and transparent exchange rates.
This quick, safe and secure service allows you to make payments in your local currency and local payment methods easily with low fees and transparent exchange rates and your payment will be received in full by Newcastle University Easy Transfer’s team of payment specialists will guide you step by step and give you peace of mind that your full payment is delivered to the university.
You will be taken care of by a dedicated human member of our customer support team over the instant messaging platform of your preference.
To get started, please click the link to access Easy Transfer's payment portal.
You can make the following payments with Easy Transfer

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/payments/payment-schedules:
Find out how you can make your payments in advance, termly or monthly.
If you pay your accommodation fees before your contract start date, you will be eligible for a 2% discount.
Please note, to be eligible for the 2% discount, your tenancy must be for 40 weeks or more.
This discount applies to your accommodation fees only and not for any additional charges, such as parking.
Your contract will contain details of the discounted amount payable, and the date the payment needs to be made.
If you choose this payment option, you will not receive an invoice for your accommodation fees and must pay the discounted fee in full.
If you do not pay this before your contract start date, you will lose the 2% discount and will be invoiced in line with our termly billing periods.
Our accepted payment methods for payment in advance are via credit or debit card or bank transfer .
If you have a contract for the full academic year, you can pay your accommodation fees in termly instalments.
These are calculated using the number of nights in the termly billing period and collected on the dates below.
Our preferred payment method for termly instalment is via Direct Debit however you can pay by card or bank transfer.
Find out the start and end dates of our billing periods:
2025-26
Collection dates for University-owned accommodation contracts are as follows:
40 week contracts will be collected in three termly instalments on:
50 week contracts will be collected in four termly instalments on:
If you have a contract for 50 days or more, you may be able to pay your accommodation fees in monthly instalments.
These are calculated by taking your total rent, and dividing it into equal instalments depending on your contract length.
We only accept Direct Debit for our monthly instalment option.
Collection dates for University-owned contracts are as follows:
40 week contracts will be collected in eight equal instalments on:
50 week contracts will be collected in ten equal instalments on:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/payments/managed-partnerships:
Find out what you need to know about paying for your managed partnership accommodation.
Rent payments must be made directly to the accommodation provider, not to the University.
The payment options for each managed-partnership scheme are specified below.
Our managed partnership accommodation options are Byron Central , Manor Bank , Newgate Court , Portland Green Student Village , The View , Verde and Wellington St Plaza .
Payment method: In full or in three instalments.
Deposit required: A £250 advanced rent payment is required upon acceptance.
Guarantor required : A guarantor is required and must be over 25 years old.
They are usually a parent or guardian who will be responsible for paying your fees if you can’t.
The guarantor will receive a copy of the ‘Guarantor Agreement’ during the acceptance process, they must complete this to enable you to fully accept your room.
Please get your guarantor's permission before signing them up for this role.
Payment schedule: In advance at the start of your contract or in three instalments due on:
If you are unable to make your rent payment by these dates, you must inform the accommodation team at Portland Green straight away .
You can speak to them in person at the reception or call them on 0191 484 0110.
Payment method: On the Abdodus online portal, via bank transfer or PayPal.
Card payments are no longer accepted.
Deposit required : No.
Your first payment is due when you receive your maintenance loan.
Guarantor required : A guarantor is not required for this accommodation.
Payment method: In advance or in three instalments.
Deposit required: A £100.00 holding fee that is deducted from the first rental payment
Guarantor required: A guarantor is required and they must live and work in the UK.
Guarantor required: A guarantor is required and must be over 25 years old.
When staying in either Newgate Court, Wellington St Plaza, Byron Central or Manor Bank, you must pay an advanced payment of £250 on accepting your offer.
Your first rent instalment is due once you receive your maintenance loan.
For Verde and The View, you are required to pay a £100.00 holding fee that is deducted from the first rental payment.
Managed partnerships are one way in which the University provides students with accommodation.
They are separate from our Newcastle University-owned residences, but we will manage your application and allocation.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/payments/rent-adjustments:
Find out about the financial implications of swapping or transferring rooms.
When you change rooms the contract for your original room will end when your new one begins.
The new contract will only include the accommodation costs for the newly assigned room - it will not take into account payments made under the previous contract.
Your account will still include any charges from a previous contract in addition to the charges for the new room.
If you would like a breakdown of all charges you can request a statement.
If you have paid in full for your first room and the new room has a higher rent, there will be additional fees to pay.
If the new room has a lower rent and you have paid in full, you will be eligible for a refund.
To initiate the refund process, you will need to download and complete the Refund Request Form
If you are making payments through direct debit, your rent account will automatically be adjusted to account for both rooms and any payments already made.
A revised Advance Payment Notice will be sent to you with a clearly stated date for payment collection.
The Advance Payment Notice will be sent to your parents directly if they are in charge of paying the direct debit fees.
There is no need to inform your bank of the changes.
If you pay your rent after receiving an invoice, and you have moved to a room with a higher rent, we will send you a revised invoice for the additional fees.
You will receive the invoice within 14 days of moving rooms, and the remaining termly invoices will be sent out as usual.
If your new room has a lower rent, any overpayment will be deducted from your next term's billing.
If the final payment has been made and you are entitled to a refund, you will need to download and complete the Refund Request Form .
If your parents provide funds to cover the fees via your bank account, the agreement will be in your name.
We recommend that you send your parents a copy of the Advance Payment Notice so they are aware of the funds required.
A rent adjustment is necessary when you transfer or swap rooms.
If the new room has a higher rent than your previous room, you will need to pay additional fees.
If the new room has a lower rent, you may be eligible for a refund.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/contact-us:
Find out how to contact the Accommodation Service.
Securing your place at University and receiving your accommodation offer is an exciting time.
We understand that you might have some questions about the process, or what to do next.
That's why we'll be on hand to answer your questions via our dedicated Accommodation Helpline.
Give us a call on +44 (0)191 222 5102.
We are available:
If you need help with your accommodation application, or you just have a general accommodation query, we're here to help.
You can contact us by completing an online enquiry form and we'll get back to you as soon as possible.
If you have a specific accommodation query, you can find out the best way to contact us from the options below.
Contact our friendly reception teams if you have a parcel to collect, you are locked out of your room, or you have a question about car parking or bike storage.
Your Accommodation Team are here to support you throughout your time living with us.
Find out how to get in touch if you have a query about your accommodation contract, finance or ResLife.
Find out how to connect to the internet in your accommodation and how to report connection issues.
Report a fault in your accommodation and find out about our response times for carrying out the repair.
Let us know how we're doing.
Whether you've got something positive to share, suggestions for improvement, or would like to submit a complaint.
We welcome all feedback.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/contact-us/-student-village-receptions:
Find the contact details for your Student Village Reception.
Our receptions are here to make your life easier.
Whether you have a question about parking, are wondering about your post, or need to report a repair, we've got you covered.
Reach out to our friendly reception teams using the contact details below and they'll point you in the right direction.
You can also call and see us person during our reception opening hours.
Our phone lines and email account are monitored Monday to Friday 08:00 – 18:00.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/accommodation/contact-us/accommodation-team:
Within your Accommodation Team, we have a range of specialists ready to assist you with your query.
We can answer a range of questions from applying for accommodation all the way to advice on settling in.
Unsure which team to reach out to?
Below, you'll find detailed information on what each specialist team can help with as well as the best way to contact them.
Our Allocations Team are located in King's Gate.
They're your go-to resource for advice on room swaps and transfers, creating payment plans, and leaving early.
They can also help with questions about your accommodation application or contract.
You can contact the Allocations Team by:
Allocations Manager: Rebecca Dickinson
Accommodation Officers: Jane Ormrod, Lisa Hastings and Frankie Simpson
Our Accommodation Finance Team can help you with payment-related queries.
They can explain how to make an accommodation payment and tell you what to do if you miss a payment.
If you need an accommodation fee statement, want to update your payment details, or require a refund, this is the team to contact.
You can contact them by email at accommodation.finance@ncl.ac.uk
Assistant Manager: Gillian Adamson
Credit Control Officer: Veronica Walls
At Newcastle University, ResLife supports all students living within University owned and managed partnership accommodation.
Our aim is to make your first year the best it can be as you transition into higher education and independent living, whilst creating new friendships.
Each village has a dedicated ResLife Coordinator and Student Assistants, to support you through your academic, social and personal journey.
Your village ResLife team are here to help you navigate your way through University life, whether you're feeling homesick, have money worries, not getting along with your flat mates, finding flatmates for year two; we have all of the tools to signpost you to the right support.
Visit our Instagram to connect with your ResLife team, send ResLife an email , or visit our webpage .
Student Experience Manager: Amy McCarthy
ResLife Coordinators: Stephen Olver and Peter Hunter

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research:
Our researchers are developing solutions to some of the most pressing problems facing the world today.
We have particular strengths in our core areas of ageing and health, data, energy, cities, and culture and the creative arts.
Our projects are helping to make the world a better place for everyone.
We receive funding from organisations such as governments and research councils.
A clear framework of processes and policies ensures our research is of the highest quality.
We deliver world-class, multidisciplinary research through a growing portfolio of Newcastle University Centres of Research Excellence (NUCoREs).
We work with partners around the world to address some of society's big issues.
We're committed to building a welcoming and empowering research culture.
Everyone should have the freedom and opportunity to succeed.
Achieve your research ambitions by joining our supportive postgraduate research community at Newcastle.
Explore our expertise in ageing and health, cities and place, culture and creative arts, data, and one planet.
NUAcT offers five year, well-resourced Fellowships for early career researchers in any discipline.
Newcastle University is the current co-host of the Creative Industries Policy and Evidence Centre (Creative PEC).
Our world-leading research is informing policy for UK creative industries.
See how our research and innovation work is organised at Newcastle University.
Our Research and Innovation Support Team provide advice to the University's academic community.
Find out about our facilities that underpin Newcastle University's world-class research.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/impact:
By harnessing creative thinking we're changing the world for the better.
We're earning a reputation for the rigour of our research and the excellence of the people who make it possible.
From medical science and ageing to data and robotics, our research is making waves.
An ovarian cancer treatment, Rubraca®, is leading the way internationally as a treatment for the life-threatening condition.
Our experts, working alongside local people and heritage partners, are helping to save the 1,900-year-old Hadrian’s Wall for future generations.
Seaweed might not be something you instantly think of as clean, but our teams are working with industry to develop a new laundry product that lowers emissions, protects the environment and saves UK families money on household bills.
Beyond the Newcastle Poetry Festival, we have established ourselves as a poetry capital attracting world renowned poets and embedding poetry into communities and everyday life.
Our research has revealed people in deprived areas are living eight to 10 years less than those in more affluent places.
As well as exposing the health inequalities, our team is offering solutions to address these disparities.
Growing evidence suggests the problem of increasing antibiotic resistance will not be solved by prudent use alone.
Improving environmental quality around the world may be of equal importance.
The Nowhere To Go group is leading change in local government policy.
They work with disability and carer groups and North East local authorities to improve provision and accessibility of public toilets.
We’re cracking the problem of vitamin D deficiency in the UK.
Alongside industry partners, we have developed a whole new diet rich in vitamin D for hens, which means more vitamin D in their eggs.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/ageing-inequalities:
Improving the health and wellbeing of older people and challenging inequalities in later life.
Increasing longevity is a major achievement of human history.
But not everyone can look forward to a wealthy, healthy or long life.
Where people live and the social groups they belong to greatly influences experiences of later life.
Too often, research and policy on ageing fails to consider the inequality that affects ageing adults .
The Centre for Ageing and Inequalities brings together experts from a wide range of disciplines.
We deliver world-class research and education that will have an impact now and in the future.
Through our research and education, we want to play our part in improving the health and wellbeing of older people.
We seek to expose and reduce the inequalities that characterise ageing societies.
Our Centre reinforces existing interdisciplinary work and creates opportunities for new connections.
Newcastle University uses its strengths, values and networks to create an international hub that aims to understand, predict and mitigate unequal ageing .
Follow us on Twitter @EqualAgeingNCL to keep up-to-date with our work.
Newcastle University has been successful in applying to host the British Society of Gerontology Annual Conference in 2024.
The event will take place from the 3rd to the 5th July 2024.
Sharing our insights on ageing and inequalities.
Committed to delivering research-led teaching.
Research that deepens our understanding of ageing and inequalities.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/biomedical-engineering:
A Newcastle University Centre of Research Excellence.
Developing new technologies for the diagnosis, treatment and management of medical conditions.
Our Centre brings together our engineering, scientific, clinical, and policy expertise across the University.
Newcastle University has a long track record in developing new technologies for healthcare, encompassing all the Faculties (Science, Agriculture and Engineering, Medical Sciences, Humanities and Social Sciences).
This gives an integrated and connected approach to research, development and translation of new devices, therapies and diagnostic technologies.
Newcastle University is a research-intensive university with specialisms in biomedical engineering.
Find out who's on the biomedical engineering team at Newcastle University and get contact information for our members.
Our research has positively impacted improve people’s lives and continued to advance medical science.
If you’ve got any questions about the Centre or you’d like to keep updated on Centre events, contact us at Angela.Horend2@ncl.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/cancer:
We work right across the cancer research pathway with strengths ranging from cell biology to healthcare research.
Thanks to the brilliant advances made over the past 40 years, cancer survival rates have more than doubled.
We aim to nurture the thought leaders of today and tomorrow through the provision of world-class cancer research training.
We work with many partners across research and clinical activities.
Collaboration is key to our success.
Cancer Research Horizons Newcastle Centre delivers world-leading research that accelerates the transition of lab-based discovery to the clinic.
Our centre for cancer is making a difference to oncology research and practice right across the world.
Two scientists from Newcastle University have been appointed as new national cancer drugs experts to help patients benefit from a ‘treatment revolution’.
This year, over 35 colleagues, graduates and supporters are joining #TeamNewcastle in the world’s biggest and best half-marathon to raise vital funds for our 29,000-strong student community.
A study has revealed why some patients don’t respond to immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapy for solid cancer tumours and identifies a new combination treatment.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/children-youth:
The Centre for Children and Youth at Newcastle University is a hub of interdisciplinary research exploring various aspects of young people's lives.
The centre brings together researchers from multiple fields to collaborate on impactful research.
These fields include:
Our projects investigate topics such as:
Our centre promotes lifelong health and wellbeing for infants, children and families.
We strive to reduce inequalities in early life.
Our work aims to enable all individuals to enjoy lifelong physical and mental health.
We aim to create comprehensive public health practices and educational change.
These policies should help maximise inclusion and learner-centred approaches.
The Centre for Children and Youth is committed to working with children, young people and those who support them to improve their lives.
We believe that using people-first language can create a more positive and supportive environment for children and youth.
We strive to deliver world-class, multidisciplinary research through a growing portfolio of Centres of Research Excellence (NUCoREs).
NUCoREs are priority areas for growth, aiming to:
NUCoREs use university resources to build diverse teams of people from various career stages, disciplinary backgrounds and protected characteristics.
We’re leading the way in the early years research space and have areas of strength across the following faculties.
Exploring the everyday lives, experiences, and aspirations of children and young people.
Learn more on our Open Lab website.
Our mission is to maximise life-course health and wellbeing.
Our research interests span education, communication and language sciences.
A thriving centre for the study of children’s literature, history, and publishing.
The Centre for Children and Youth is a research centre at Newcastle University aiming to improve the lives of children and young people.
We research various youth issues such as health, education, social development and mental health.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/environmental-climate-resilience:
Our research and teaching is building resilience and helping to limit the effects of climate and environmental change.
The Centre for Climate and Environmental Resilience (CCER) is a transdisciplinary Centre of Excellence.
We research the environmental and societal issues caused by intensifying global change .
We are now in an epoch in which human and natural systems are inextricably linked.
Altered and degraded systems are having knock-on consequences for human societies and biodiversity.
Climate and environmental change mean that our society and natural ecosystems need to be able to anticipate, prepare for and respond to hazardous events and disturbances.
This means increasing resilience by assessing and coping with changes in risk.
This challenge will need an integrated, transdisciplinary approach.
We bring together experts from:
Our centre provides a vital research base for taking appropriate action.
Please see HERE to find out about our Leadership Team and to get in touch.
Our mission is to deliver the solutions we need to increase climate and environmental resilience through our expertise and international leadership.
CCER acts as a catalyst for the creation of a solutions-driven research programme to address this challenge.
To achieve this we must accelerate transdisciplinary working.
Newcastle University leads interdisciplinary research programmes that aim to limit the impacts of climate change.
The CCER is helping shape climate and environmental action.
Turning policy into practice at all scales.
Our research has an impact on fighting the effects of climate change and saving our environment at both a local and a global level.
We're researching ways to increase the resilience of our communities and environment to climate change.
We are pursuing our mission by:
We are engaging businesses in taking responsibilities for ensuring a healthy global ecosystem.
These range from micro and small businesses to global corporations.
We work to support progress towards the UN Sustainable Development Goals, especially :
Newcastle University also leads the way in testing and implementing sustainable solutions .
This includes on campus and supporting the city’s journey towards a net zero status.
CCER also contributes towards goals set out in other Newcastle University Centres of Research Excellence .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/cyber-security-resilience:
A Newcastle University Centre of Research Excellence
Emergent systems have a profound impact on society.
They affect society’s interaction with those technologies in unprecedented ways.
This holds for the individual’s experience of the digital realm, as well as for society as a whole.
We:
We aim at collaborating across faculties to create research opportunities.
These include work in:
The Centre is led by its Director, Prof Thomas Gross , the Professor of System Security of the School of Computing, and a dedicated steering group, the members of which represent designated research themes introduced below.
The initial research themes are designed to build bridges between Newcastle research strengths and yield cross-disciplinary value .
Artificial intelligence (AI) is a pervasive technology.
It can aid all areas of our lives.
Cyber security and resilience is no exception.
We can develop systems which learn to make systems more secure.
AI can also benefit from cyber security and resilience.
We can make AI more robust and less susceptible to attacks.
Theme lead: Dr Stephen McGough
Our research theme will look at all aspects of bio/nano cyber security.
We must secure the entire supply chain of nano-bio products and processes as:
This includes securing:
Our theme is keen to engage with a gamut of stakeholders.
They represent experts on nanotechnology, biotechnology, cybersecurity.
They include industrial, government and public organisations and individuals.
We gather all relevant perspectives on the future of bio/nano cyber security.
That includes responsible innovation.
Theme lead: Prof Natalio Krasnagor
Cyber-Physical Systems (CPSs) are inter-connected systems that include physical components, computer control, networking and data collection, and human interactions.
Examples include industrial control systems, precision agriculture, critical national infrastructure, on-body medical devices and drones.
CPSs must be resilient to both cyber and physical attacks, and research is required to offer secure, resilient and, safe systems at all abstraction layers.
This is not only meant to protect CPSs from threats creating a hazard for society: CPS research, in turn, infuses new thought paradigms into cyber security and resilience through the integrative modelling of the physical world and circular causality (feedback loops) of cybernetics, which give rise to autonomous and adaptive security systems.
We focus primarily on modelling and analysis as a solution to the challenge of CPSs, including how whole-system models and Digital Twins (DT) can better demonstrate resilience, how models of human performance and threats can be incorporated into these models.
We will also investigate side channels and how both cyber and physical attacks can compromise CPSs, as well as how explainable trustworthy Artificial Intelligence (AI) can be used in CPSs in a way that is both verifiable and understandable.
Theme leads: Dr Ken Pierce and Dr Mujeeb Ahmed
Many service firms (accounting, legal and financial) embrace big data and data analytics.
Research on Fintech applications and the effects of cyber-crime is sparse.
So we're unclear about the impact on various stakeholders and firms’:
Under this theme, research and targeted grants will cluster around various sub-themes.
We'll investigate Fintech firms and financial institutions, looking at:
We aim to present international insights and key policy implications.
They will reflect cross-country comparisons.
We'll use inter-disciplinary research designs, new methods and unique datasets for cyber security.
They will address both conceptual and empirical contexts.
Theme lead: Dr Marwa Elnahass
This theme will investigate the end-to-end protection for medical systems to:
It will not only consider the cyber security and resilience of such systems.
It will also investigate privacy preservation and disclosure risk mitigation on identifying or sensitive personal information.
Its scope covers:
Theme leads: Dr Jaume Bacardit and Dr Leo Freitas
The vision for the stream governance, law, and new technologies is to explore the interaction between politics, international relations and law in cybersecurity research and development that places sociotechnical understandings of cybersecurity at the heart of its research.
Considering the increased role of cybersecurity in national security and economic concerns, this stream of research considers how policymakers, industry professionals, and civil society view cybersecurity, what problems they identify, and then how they then pursue legal or policy initiatives to address those cybersecurity concerns.
We consider the following non-exhaustive list as indicative of the themes of this stream:
Theme lead: Dr Ben Farrand
The Human Identity and Trust cross-cutting theme seeks to promote social justice by advancing knowledge on public awareness of and engagement in cyber security issues and citizens’ experiences of cyber security threats.
By examining how individuals and groups negotiate their identities online; the level of trust they invest in their online interactions; and how they navigate their online decisions, the twofold aim is to (a) prevent digital technologies from performing as sites that reflect, exacerbate, or reinscribe social inequalities through design, production, and use and (b) identify and promote ways to protect citizens’ online identities and enhance individual and community trust in digital technologies.
The following themes and issues are illustrations of potential projects, reflecting the cross-cutting theme’s vision:
- To identify potential interdisciplinary research projects (UK centred or cross-national studies):
To understand the social implications of current and future technologies, the aims is to foster and support a series of citizen-oriented interdisciplinary research projects between members of HASS and other Faculties to attract research grants, centred on the intersectional dimensions of cybersecurity pertaining to identity and trust, by focusing on:
a) accountability, trust, and transparency
b) the growing normalisation of dis/misinformation, surveillance, and capitalist exploitation.
c) factors of age; disability; gender; children and youth; race, and ethnic identities
d) knowledge-sharing to promote online safety in everyday life and work, by enabling individuals and organisations reduce the risk of cyber-attack.
Theme leads: Prof Deborah Chambers and Dr Tina Sikka
Our vision for this research stream is to pioneer a new era in cyber security research and development that places ethical considerations, public trust, and environmental sustainability at the forefront.
By prioritizing ethics, ESG impact, public trust, and long-term efficacy, this stream of research ensures that cyber security solutions are not only cutting-edge but also responsible, sustainable, and capable of safeguarding individuals, organizations, and societies in an ever-changing threat landscape.
We consider the following themes as examples (not limited to these):
Theme lead: Prof Marwa Elnahass
Newcastle University founded its cyber security research initiative in 2010.
We responded to increasing global cyber crime and the need for resilient systems.
We became an Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security Research (ACE-CSR) in 2013.
We pursue a holistic research vision in this area.
We look at a wide range of applications, including:
The NUCoRE in Cyber Security and Resilience includes members with a wide range of expertise across faculties.
Core cyber security topics are also investigated in the group Secure and Resilience Systems (SRS) of the School of Computing .
Our Centre builds on world-leading research in dependability and formal methods.
It's underpinned by rigorous quantitative and evidence-based data.
But we also incorporate research in social sciences, arts and culture, business and law.
This NUCoRE benefits from Newcastle's growing strength in data science.
It collaborates with NUCoRE Data , the National Innovation Centre for Data and partners with the Alan Turing Institute .
Newcastle Cyber Security and Resilience hosts a number of exciting research projects:
PETRAS - investigating privacy, ethics, trust, reliability, acceptability and security of IoT devices, systems and networks
Cyber Security and Resilience benefits from a number of integrated, purpose-built labs and associated assets:
We offer an opportunity to collaborate with colleagues across the University.
You'll benefit from the rich tapestry of expertise .
Join us to connect to colleagues, for example, from:
We have interest in cyber security and resilience in the widest sense .
You are welcome, no matter whether you are a:
To join us, please contact our operations support, Angela Horend

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/data:
Driving research, training, and engagement in data science.
Newcastle Data is using data to transform research across the whole University.
Vast amounts of data are now collected across all areas of academia, research, industry and the public sector.
The challenge has shifted from how to collect the data, to how to extract value from it .
To respond to this challenge, our community focuses on three main goals:
We coordinate work across research, teaching and engagement— to create a virtuous circle that is mutually beneficial to researchers, students, society, and the economy.
In the year ahead, we’re looking to build on our collaborative culture and diverse networks to compete for external funding and tackle complex industrial and societal challenges.
Our expertise and research are driving the development and application of new methods for extracting the value from data.
We do this by:
We work in science, engineering, the arts and humanities, and medical science.
Find out more about our research.
Find out more about our postgraduate & professional training.
We unlock the value in the vast amounts of data that are being collected in all areas of research, industry and society.
Discover how your business can benefit from investing in data.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/energy:
As climate change brings increasing global challenges, it’s never been more important to develop sustainable energy systems for the future.
The Centre for Energy at Newcastle University plays a key role in addressing global issues and exploring solutions.
By consolidating our portfolio of Energy research, nurturing thought leaders and encouraging collaboration with a wide range of partners, we aim to play our part in creating a more sustainable world for future generations.
The Centre for Energy aims to bring people together to tackle the global need for clean, affordable energy.
Our vision is to progress towards the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals by delivering advances in:
The Centre for Energy provides a platform for cross-disciplinary collaborative research.
In an ever-changing landscape, it’s vital to develop new skills, and the Centre for Energy places lifelong learning at its heart.
Industry, government, and academic stakeholders are all crucial to our success, helping us to shape our research and translate discoveries into real-world impact.
Our team is essential to our success, and we pride ourselves on nurturing them to achieve their full potential.
Keep up to date with the latest news and events of the Centre for Energy
Professor Richard Dawson has been appointed to the new Science and Technology Advisory Council.
A community-led art exhibition in Blyth will showcase how marginalised communities envision, and can contribute to, low-carbon planning in the places they live.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/healthier-lives:
There is growing evidence lifestyle choices have profound effects on health and wellbeing.
From conception to old age, diet, physical activity, and alcohol use have an impact on health.
Human behaviours have major impacts on the environment and health of our planet.
Health-related disciplines operating largely in isolation cannot meet these challenges.
These global challenges are the focus for our Centre for Healthier Lives .
We're taking an interdisciplinary approach to finding solutions to improving human health and planetary health.
We're the first UK centre of excellence for research on interventions to change connected behaviours.
We'll improve public health through developing, implementing and evaluating novel interventions that change 'lifestyle-related' behaviours .
We'll also aim to intervene to change behaviours that threaten the wider environment .
We will deliver these novel interventions through better processes of:
We're improving health and wellbeing through research in healthy living.
Our research is funded by many organisations.
We provide training and research opportunities for our researchers.
Early withdrawal of a treatment for patients with a rare kidney disease is possible without relapse, safer for patients and saves the NHS millions of pounds, new research has revealed.
Writing for The Conversation, Michael Richardson discusses ecological masculinities and opening up environmental care to young men.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/heritage:
Heritage links our past to our present, with the potential to influence every aspect of how we live our lives.
From the preservation and interpretation of cultural monuments, landscapes, and traditions, to explorations of identity, community, politics, and global and international relations, the implications of heritage research are profound and far-reaching.
The Centre for Heritage brings together experts across a wide range of disciplines to deliver heritage research that will have an impact now and in the future.
Find out more about us and our team.
The Centre for Heritage works across a wide range of disciplines, including the humanities, arts, social sciences, engineering, computing, and medicine.
We provide an inclusive, creative, and progressive platform that transcends disciplinary boundaries and supports everyone to succeed in the creation of world-class research.
We approach heritage research in a variety of ways, to address the most critical and pressing questions about our relations with the past.
Our research places heritage at the heart of key discussions on politics, society, and global concerns, with real-world implications that truly make a difference.
Discover our impact for yourself with resources to watch, read, and listen to.
The Campus Legacies project aims to research, understand and reconcile the colonial heritages of Newcastle University.
The Centre for Heritage was proud to host an online masterclass featuring three expert practitioners on the theme of 'Heritage in Africa'.
Colonial history scoping workshop, May 2nd
Check out our updated pages with the latest news about our Partnerships!
The seminar series 'Indigenous Heritage and Climate Activism' delves into the heritage strategies and climate activism of Indigenous peoples globally, while fostering dialogues on the interconnected issues of environmental justice, climate policy, and community art among Indigenous scholars, artists, and activists.
A new commemorative plaque has been unveiled on the Tyne Bridge, in honour of Dorothy Buchanan, who was a member of the design team for the bridge which opened in 1928.
An event for people involved and interested in Heritage Teaching
We can support lifelong learning right through your career, from undergraduate and postgraduate study to providing mentoring for early career researchers and training for professionals.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/landscape:
A place that provides an opportunity for transdisciplinary research in the field of landscape studies.
Our research focuses on the complex interactions within and between landscapes through five interdisciplinary thematic areas.
Our team includes colleagues from all three faculties in the university.
Transdisciplinary landscape research needs collaborators with a broad range of experience, theories, concepts, discourses, methods and implementation tools.
Build your landscape career through work, study or by volunteering with us.
Read more about our goals in this field.
Get the latest news about landscape studies around the university.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/mobility-transport:
We challenge the boundaries of what sustainable future mobility can deliver.
We're driving mobility and transport towards an inclusive, joined-up, healthier, resilient and zero-carbon future.
We are uniquely placed to seek innovative solutions to global, national and regional challenges to improve mobility and the transport of people and goods for all.
We work closely with industry, government, delivery stakeholders and users to deliver innovative solutions, using the full multidisciplinary skills the NUCoRE can bring to address challenges.
We generate research outputs that address crucial challenges in relation to the:
We do this using a novel cross-disciplinary approach.
We provide insight, innovation, experience, expertise and solutions from engineering and science.
In doing so, we engage widely, influence and ensure we consider the wider impact this has on society.
Sustainability and net-zero are in the DNA of our NUCoRE however we recognise that transport and mobility is much more than just that.
We recognise the innovation isn’t just the technologies and future systems that we work on, innovation is also how we can do things differently and more optimally with our existing transport systems and services to.
Our work will contribute to a better, more sustainable and healthier zero-carbon world with transport opening up opportunities for all.
By understanding the wider context, this strategy offers us more clarity.
We can better assess the pathways to, and mobility implications of a net-zero-carbon society.
We recognise that science, engineering and technology on their own are not enough.
We engage the end user and society to co-create effective solutions together.
Transport thinking cannot take place in silos.
We recognise there is a broad multidisciplinary area concerned with mobility.
We can break down silos by:
We use modern technology to create innovative ways to support the sustainable future of mobility.
Our Transport and Mobility NUCoRE team aims to reduce harmful emissions.
Transport intersects with working lives and society, and we explore these relationships.
We are a multidisciplinary team pulling from expertise across the University.
Please see HERE for details of our Team.
Explore our constantly expanding news items of what we do and the new projects and activities that we are undertaking.
We offer a number of different courses related to mobility and transport.
Please see HERE for details.
If you’ve got any questions about the Centre or you’d like to join our mailing list to keep updated on Centre events, contact us at mobilityandtransport@ncl.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/rare-diseases:
As a centre of research excellence, Newcastle has a long and distinguished history of research and clinical care in rare disease.
We collaborate across disciplines for patient-centred impact and innovation.
We improve therapy options, outcomes, and quality of life for people with a rare disease.
Newcastle has a stellar track record in rare disease research.
We have benefited from decades of collaboration between the University and Newcastle Upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
We have united almost 100 experts from across these organisations to form this Centre.
We have built on an ethos of robust patient partnerships.
We will continue to improve the quality and impact of our work.
To learn more about our Centre and the work we are doing, we invite you to explore the webpages below or take a look at our new Centre for Rare Disease brochure (PDF: 3.8 MB).
The main goals of the Centre are to:
World-leading expertise in the rare disease field.
Come work with us.
Driven by research goals and a patient-centred approach.
Close collaborations for effective working in rare diseases.
Expert in research and care delivery.
For enquiries or comments please email ncl.raredisease@newcastle.ac.uk
Centre Leads
Dave Jones Victoria Hedley Volker Straub Joris Veltman
Our Steering Group involves our Leads plus the following experts:
Kenny Dalgarno Sophie Hambleton Neil Rajan Michael Wright Wyatt Yue James Wason Pauline McCormack John Sayer

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/cities:
We work on cities, with cities, and for cities to ensure just, inclusive, and sustainable urban transitions.
Cities are the concentration of social , infrastructural, and economic activity in space.
Defined by density , proximity, and juxtaposition , cities act as accelerators of change .
They concentrate vulnerabilites and amplify inequalities.
These attributes put cities in the forefront of efforts to address overarching societal and global challenges.
These challenges do not simply happen in cities.
Cities exacerbate or ease them.
We have a unique understanding of cities which brings together urban systems and technologies with social and spatial governance and justice .
The purpose of  the Centre for Researching Cities is to add value by harnessing and integrating Newcastle University’s existing world- class expertise in urban research to better address these pressing multi-disciplinary and international challenges.
Developing a unique understanding of cities as complex and open systems, the Centre will bring together research on urban systems and technologies with work on social and spatial governance and justice.
Its scope is necessarily broad, reflecting the cross-cutting nature of cities as research objects, alongside the diverse and complementary strengths of cities research at Newcastle.
Rather than seeking to incorporate the range of research topics and questions that may be located in cities, the Centre is focused on research about cities, advancing cities research both theoretically and empirically and addressing distinct urban challenges and themes.
Our mission is to harness and integrate our world-class expertise in urban research, to better address these pressing multidisciplinary and international challenges.
We want to work on cities, with cities and for cities to envisage and enable just, inclusive and sustainable urban futures.
Our cities research focuses on three challenges and three cross-cutting themes.
We form research partnerships with professionals, policymakers, businesses, and communities.
Find out more about our undergraduate and postgraduate courses or PhD opportunities.
A world-leading project that’s set to see drones, robots and a mobile lab transform how rivers and seas are monitored has been named a winner in an innovation competition.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/transformative-neuroscience:
Understanding the brain in health and disease remains one of the great challenges of our time.
The Centre for Transformative Neuroscience is an interdisciplinary centre.
It tackles major questions about how the brain and nervous system work.
It also seeks to find better ways to diagnose and treat devastating brain disorders.
Our ambition is to advance fundamental and translational neuroscience.
This is to help bring transformative benefits to patients and society.
Our researchers address fundamental, translational and clinical questions in neuroscience.
We train the neuroscientists of the future.
We’re one of Newcastle University’s Centres of Research Excellence (NUCoREs).
We have clinical links with our local NHS trusts, and we collaborate with colleagues at universities the world over.
We need volunteers to take part in our research and improve treatments for others.
We need support to be able to continue our research into improving brain disorder treatments and outcomes for patients.
The UK’s pioneering licensed IVF technique to reduce the risk of mitochondrial diseases carried out in Newcastle has seen eight babies born, published research shows.
A new research centre involving Newcastle University experts aims to develop brain stimulation devices to treat conditions such as Parkinson’s disease, dementia, stroke and childhood epilepsy.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/water:
We are a transdisciplinary centre of excellence in water research.
Newcastle University has over 70 years' experience in water-related research, teaching and innovation.
Our mission is to celebrate the intrinsic value of water and deliver the solutions, people and culture needed to improve water security now and in the future.
We reach across all our disciplines and campuses in the UK, Malaysia and Singapore.
We take our mission-oriented research to a higher level by:
Our work will support progress towards the UN Sustainable Development Goals, especially:
Recognising the strong links between the goals, we also support and contribute towards:
Find out about our community of passionate scholars dedicated to tackling the challenges of water cleanliness and access.
Discover our current and recent projects that have had a real impact on global communities.
Here, we detail our key areas of research into water quality and access, including governance, technology and education.
We have a number of projects, groups and physical facilities that help us to deliver our water-related research and innovation.
Find out about our undergraduate and postgraduate courses and research opportunities that aim to tackle global water challenges.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/culture:
Research culture is a broad term, meaning different things to different people.
Generally, it encompasses our research community's behaviours, values, expectations, attitudes and norms.
We know a positive research culture matters as it:
With our research community, we've defined four attributes of a positive research culture .
They're what our postgraduate research students, academic and professional colleagues tell us are important.
They guide the work we do.
We want our research culture to:
We want to build our research culture in collaboration with our research community.
We include everyone who enables and delivers research and enhances its impact.
We need everyone’s voices to be heard to fully understand our challenges.
We want to hear a diverse range of perspectives and ideas to know best how to tackle them.
This includes working in partnerships with other universities, funders and organisations.
We want to share best practice across the sector .
We are working with our research community and partnering with external organisations.
Our research culture action plan is based on what we have heard so far from our research community.
An EDI Toolkit has been created for anyone who delivers or enables research to engage with.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/culture/plan:
Our research culture action plan is based on what we've heard so far from our research community.
This includes everyone who contributes to our research, enhancing its quality and reach.
This is a living plan , that will continue to evolve and adapt, through:
We will be open about these changes and regularly update on our progress.
To drive meaningful change effectively, we’ve identified a set of top priority projects within the Research Culture Action plan – chosen for their urgency, value, and potential impact.
This is in response to internal needs, external opportunities, and shifts in the higher education landscape.
People are at the heart of everything we do, and as a university, we want to create environments where people and their ideas can thrive.
Whilst there are examples of great teamwork and people supporting the careers of others, this isn't everyone's experience.
Evidence from consultations across the institution has identified a need to improve behaviours in some areas and better understand how instances of bullying, discrimination, prejudice, and other kinds of inappropriate behaviour have been tolerated in others.
We are working closely with our community on an ambitious two-year project, endorsed by the University’s Executive Board, to tackle inappropriate behaviours and promote positive ones across the organisation.
This builds on established positive activity in this area, including our 'Leading Through Values' and 'Bystander Training' programmes, as well as the development of our online EDI Toolkit .
Taking a holistic and bold approach, the project tackles difficult issues head-on with the aim of creating lasting cultural change.
The initial work is centred on three key themes:
Open Research applies the principles of openness across the research cycle, from inception and design, to data collection, analysis, and dissemination.
Adopting these practices is important to us as it increases the rigour, transparency, and reproducibility of our research, promotes collaboration and inclusivity, and enhances public trust in the research we do.
As part of this work, we are:
Consultations with our research community have highlighted that time is a major barrier to enabling and sustaining a positive research culture.
We want our community to have quality time to nurture creativity, solve problems, and pursue professional development opportunities.
The project explores ways to support researchers in protecting time for research and research-enabling activity.
Initiatives include:
Research integrity is key to the research we carry out at Newcastle.
The Concordat to Support Research Integrity define research integrity as a set of individual and collective behaviours that define good research practice: honesty, rigour, transparency and open communication, care and respect, and accountability.
This project supports research practice by promoting and enhancing training, tools, and resources that help researchers embed integrity throughout the entire research lifecycle.
It focuses on five key areas:
The Research Space is a new and evolving one-stop shop for training, development, and research support.
Built on Microsoft Teams with a modern SharePoint front end, the platform brings together existing resources aimed at the training and skills development of our research community in a more accessible and user-friendly format.
The Research Space is designed to support career development and foster collaboration across disciplines, empowering researchers to achieve their goals and maximise the impact of their work.
We’re committed to evolving The Research Space based on user feedback and the changing needs of our community.
Over time, the platform will grow to reflect community input.
Funded by the Wellcome Institutional Fund for Research Culture (IFRC), this project is developing and evaluating new ways to support and reward leaders in research to create individual and team relationships through which people and research can thrive.
Using Participatory Action Research (PAR), we have welcomed leaders in research from across our community to join us as ‘co-researchers’ and pilot a six-month leadership development programme based around reflexive practices.
Whilst the project is funded by Wellcome and focuses on research leadership, we will consider how our learnings can be embedded into other leadership programmes at Newcastle, making them available for a wider range of colleagues.
We intend to share our project tools, resources and knowledge with the wider sector.
Five focus areas for 2025 are:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/culture/working-together:
We have worked in partnership with our community to understand the existing strengths in our research culture, and where we can improve.
We will continue this collaboration with our community and beyond.
We launched ‘ Research Culture at Newcastle University: The Road Ahead ’ in October 2021.
We invited people from across our community to tell us what they thought.
We heard from more than 400 colleagues and students and as a result we promised to:
It's the first time we've asked our research community to share their thoughts about Newcastle’s existing research culture.
The participants shared ideas for improvements, which have fed into our Research Culture Action Plan .
To tailor our future actions, we analysed our survey data by ‘role’.
For simplicity here, we present the overall findings from across the institution, organised by three emerging themes.
Our methods and results.
Our reflection on the survey findings.
Our actions to make a positive research culture change.
We are committed to being open and transparent about what we've heard and our plans for action.
We see our work as an ongoing dialogue with our research community.
We have developed a University Research Culture Index to monitor research culture change across a basket of values-led measures.
We seek to collaborate, share good practice and work with others across the sector to achieve meaningful and lasting improvement.
We are building our external research culture networks, including through:
We're keen to work with both national and international partners.
We welcome feedback on what we have heard and what we are doing.
What areas would you most like to prioritise and what would you most like to change?

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/sustainability/global-challenges:
Newcastle University is committed to working across national borders and academic disciplines to help address the development challenges facing the world today.
We work extensively with global partners inside and outside of Higher Education undertaking work towards addressing the Global Goals.
From combating air pollution in Delhi to building solar drying units in Sub-Saharan Africa, we make important discoveries to tackle today's global challenges and support the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
We’re proud to support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals – seeking peace and prosperity for all people and the planet by 2030.
Our Global Challenges Academy underlines our commitment and better enables us to make our research work for sustainable development.
It fosters research and partnerships to help realise the UN Sustainable Development Goals, particularly where solutions are most urgently needed.
Both University staff and our partners can share ideas, best practice and projects.
This helps find evidence-based solutions to the world’s most pressing development challenges.
The Academy encourages challenge-based and regionally focused research networks and provides a variety of professional development activity.
Newcastle University is a member of the UN Academic Impact Initiative.
We also engage with the International Council for Science, which enables us to connect our research to UN processes around the sustainable development goals (SDGs).
For example, in 2017 we worked with governments and civil society partners to present a side event to the UN High Level Political Forum.
This was called ‘Open, inclusive, participatory and transparent’: How can voluntary national reviews support the pledge to “leave no one behind” in implementing the 2030 Agenda?
Here we looked at whether these country reports on progress made against UNSDGs are giving marginalised groups more of a voice at the national level politics.
In addition, our biodiversity research is informing the Convention on Biological Diversity on how to monitor conservation status.
This will feed into the UNSDG process particularly for Goal 15, Life on Land.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/sustainability/global-challenges/global-partnerships:
Global challenges need global collaboration.
We are already working together with an array of exciting colleagues from around the world and are always looking to expand our international networks.
At Newcastle University we value equitable and mutually beneficial partnerships based on respect, transparency and integrity.
When these relationships work well they can produce cutting-edge, impactful research and educational innovation that can change the world for the better.
We have many hundreds of these kinds of partnerships working across sectors, disciplines and national borders.
We engage with an array of organisations in Tanzania on subjects ranging from non-communicable disease on the slopes of Kilimanjaro to education in informal settlements in Dar es Salam.
In Malaysia we're partnering to learn more about dementia and about water quality, while in Indonesia our collaborative relationships are providing evidence around sustainable fisheries and air pollution.
This is in addition to the many opportunities for our students to experience international environments, and for us to welcome international visitors to our campuses in Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Malaysia and Singapore.
Within the UK and beyond we're also working with a variety of exciting organisations looking at sustainable development and addressing the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
If you'd like to work with us to help solve a global challenge affecting your community email internationalrelations@ncl.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/sustainability/global-challenges/work-together:
We're always looking to expand our international networks.
At Newcastle University we are committed to transparency and fairness and will not ask a partner to provide us with information that we are not also willing to share.
Read our Publication Scheme to find out more about our research, financial and legal policies relevant to partnering with us.
If you'd like to work with us to help solve a global challenge affecting your community email internationalrelations@ncl.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/ref-2021:
Welcome to Newcastle University’s REF 2021 website.
It summarises our submission to Research England’s Research Excellence Framework in March 2021.
The national assessment of research performance has reported world-leading research with outstanding impact for society and the economy across all disciplines at Newcastle University.
The results show that the University’s research capacity - or ‘power’ in REF terms - has grown by 65% since 2014.
42% of our research was scored as world-leading up from 31% in 2014.
Find out more about our REF 2021 results
The REF 2021 website describes the excellence of our research environment, outputs and impact since the previous REF in 2013/14.
Over the course of the REF cycle (2013-2020) we have grown our:
We have contributed more than £1bn to UK GDP and supported 16,390 UK jobs .
In REF 2021 we submitted to 28 Units of Assessment (UoAs) across the four main panels.
We encompass contributions of staff and students from the University’s three faculties during the current REF cycle.
We welcomed the reforms to REF that followed the Stern review.
As captured in our code of practice, our approach has emphasised ‘collective excellence’.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/directory:
Our University structure is split into three key faculties and central services.
It's designed to help you see how our research and innovation work is organised here at Newcastle.
The information should help you find the people and units with whom you might want to collaborate.
It covers our:
We maintain a commitment to conventional discipline-based research.
But, we also believe strongly in supporting multi-disciplinary and inter-disciplinary research.
Research facilities combine top of the range equipment with highly trained and experienced staff.
Enjoy PhD funding, expert training and a research community.
Fostering innovation and enterprise across rural economies.
Helping organisations learn new data skills to become more productive.
Adding intelligence to ageing and longevity.
Led by Director, David Hill.
Led by Faculty Pro-Vice-Chancellor, Professor David Burn, with Dean of Research and Innovation, Professor Quentin Anstee.
Led by Faculty acting Pro-Vice Chancellor, Professor Nigel Harness, with Dean of Research and Innovation, Professor Alexandra Hughes.
Led by Faculty Pro-Vice-Chancellor, Professor Stephanie Glendenning, with Dean of Research and Innovation, Professor Ian Head.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/research-governance:
Research governance at Newcastle encompasses a range of policies, tools and processes.
They assist researchers to ensure their work continues to be of the highest quality.
The committee ensures integration of research through the Faculty Research Committees.
We ensure the highest standards of integrity in our research.
Information and resources for University colleagues undertaking international research and innovation activities.
Newcastle University has a policy of using animals in research only if there are no realistic alternatives and in projects of major importance.
Open research aims to increase openness throughout the whole research life cycle.
It provides free access to research methods and protocols, data, software and publications.
Read our research-related policies, procedures and guidelines.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/research-governance/research-integrity:
The Concordat to Support Research Integrity defines research integrity as a set of individual and collective behaviours that define good research practice:
As a signatory of the Concordat, we publish an annual statement on our activities:
As part of the University's onboarding process, all new academic colleagues are provided with information about our commitment to the Concordat and the expectations of researchers.
Newcastle University is committed to rigorous high standards in our research activities and ensuring that ethical, legal and professional obligations are met.
Expectations for all colleagues and students are set out in the University’s Code of good practice in research .
The University promotes research integrity via a wide range of activities including:
The University has produced the following tools to support good practice in assigning authorship and giving credit for intellectual work:
University colleagues and students can access further information and resources on research integrity as well as a number of resources via the UK Research Integrity Office (UKRIO) .
Find further information about the University’s institutional membership of UKRIO and the support available to researchers.
The University is committed to using transparent, timely, robust and fair processes to deal with allegations of research misconduct when they arise.
The University Research and Innovation Committee has oversight of all matters relating to research integrity.
Pro Vice Chancellor for Research Strategy and Innovation, Professor Matthew Grenby is responsible for research integrity at Newcastle University.
For any enquiries contact the Research Integrity and Governance Manager .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/research-governance/good-practice:
This statement addresses the issues involved in the proper conduct of research and provides guidance on the standards expected.
It applies to all Researchers (defined here as all staff, honorary staff, students and visiting workers undertaking research within or on behalf of the University).
Student research misconduct will be dealt with via the Student Academic Misconduct Procedure , and staff research misconduct via the Procedure for Investigating Allegations of Research Misconduct .
Within this over arching framework there may be specific discipline requirements in areas such as ethics, clinical governance, data protection, legal requirements, Home Office and other government requirements, in addition to health and safety and other good laboratory practice requirements.
Some disciplines may also be subject to specific good practice requirements of external funding agencies or professional bodies.
The University has signed up to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers , which govern working practices, roles and responsibilities of research staff.
The University's named contact for Research Integrity is the PVC for Research and Innovation, Professor Matthew Grenby .
1.1 Researchers should be honest and ethical in respect of their own actions in research and their responses to the actions of other researchers.
This applies to the whole range of research work, including experimental design, generating and analysing data, acting as a reviewer or referee on grant applications or research papers etc, applying for funding, publishing results, and acknowledging the direct and indirect contributions of colleagues, collaborators and others.
1.2 Plagiarism, deception or the fabrication or falsification of results, is regarded by the University as a serious disciplinary offence.
1.3 Authors are responsible for the integrity and accuracy of the information in their publications including the accuracy of any generative AI used, in accordance with the relevant funder and publisher guidelines.
‌2.1 The University takes seriously any allegation of research misconduct and has a written procedure for investigating and resolving such allegations.
2.2 Researchers are encouraged to report cases of research misconduct and to do so in a responsible and appropriate manner.
Staff and students should be aware that the University has a policy on Public Interest Disclosure [PDF:233KB] (whistleblowing) which governs any instances of malpractice or impropriety.
The University's named contact for matters relating to Research Integrity is Professor Matthew Grenby , Pro-Vice Chancellor for Research and Innovation.
Concerns relating to the integrity of research conducted under the auspices of the University may also be reported to the Research Integrity and Governance Manager (email: Research.Integrity@ncl.ac.uk ).
3.1 The Vice-Chancellor, Pro-Vice-Chancellors, Deans of Research and Innovation, Heads of Academic Units, Professorial and all other senior staff are responsible for creating a climate and capacity which ensures that research is conducted in accordance with good research practice.
3.2 Lead researchers have responsibility to ensure that a climate of mutual co-operation is created in which all members of the research team are encouraged to develop their skills and in which both the open exchange of ideas and supportive criticism are fostered.
3.3 Researchers should ensure that they have the necessary skills and resources to conduct their research and to access relevant training as appropriate, or contact the University Research Office or Organisational Development (University Login required) for signposting to appropriate courses).
Staff supervising other staff or students must ensure that appropriate direction of research and supervision is provided, as well as training and opportunities for development and the necessary resources to enable them to conduct their research to the required standards.
4.1 While recognising the need for researchers to protect their own and the University's research interests in the process of planning their research, obtaining and publishing the results, and seeking to develop the outcome of their research into application (where relevant), the University encourages researchers to be as open as possible in discussing their work with other researchers, and with the public.
Research may be undertaken under conditions of confidentiality; however, these conditions should be as narrowly defined as appropriate to the research activity.
4.2 Once results have been published the University expects researchers to make available relevant data and materials to other researchers on request, provided that this is consistent with any ethics approval and consents which cover the data and materials and any intellectual property rights in them and wherever possible disseminated via Open Access Forums.
4.3 Researchers must adhere to the requirements of the Freedom of Information Act .
5.1 Researchers are expected to observe the standards of research practice set out in guidelines published by funding bodies, scientific and learned societies and other relevant professional bodies.
5.2 All researchers should be aware of, and comply with, the legal requirements which regulate their work.
5.3 Researchers should be aware of the expectations of the University as a publicly funded institution, and should act accordingly.
They should ensure that any research undertaken complies with any agreements, terms and conditions relating to the project, and allows for proper governance and transparency.
5.4 Researchers are responsible for keeping up to date with policy developments and best practice guidelines relating to the use of generative AI within their subject area.
6.1 All research conducted in the University must be carried out in accordance with the University’s Ethics Policy (which includes reference to external NHS requirements).
Ethical approval must be in place before work begins on the project.
6.2 If material differences are made to the research protocol, ie to research methodology, then further ethical approval should be sought where appropriate.
7.1 The University requires every member of staff to uphold high personal standards with regard to safety and to communicate these standards to all those involved in research, including but not limited to researchers, research subjects, patients, participants or others, in line with the University Safety Policy .
8.1 Researchers should ensure consideration is given to the retention of data and samples before any work commences.
There should be clarity at the outset of the research programme as to the ownership of, where relevant:
8.2 Researchers should keep clear and accurate records of the procedure followed and the approvals granted during the research process, including records of the interim results obtained as well as the final research outcomes.
This is necessary not only as a means of demonstrating proper research practice, but also in case questions are subsequently asked about either the conduct of the research or the results obtained.
These records should be dated and signed.
Research involving patients should adhere to the Trust SOP on Data Archiving and all other relevant guidelines.
8.3 Research records should be retained and managed in order to:
8.4 Research records cover the research data and samples used or created in the course of the research, the research process including applications for regulatory approval, research outcomes such as reports and publications, and project management contracts, budgetary details etc.
This data may be stored in multiple different systems managed by different people.
8.5 The Principal Investigator is ultimately responsible for managing research records - their accuracy, completeness and security.
However research students, staff researchers and supervisors, support and administrative staff must also assume responsibility for their parts of and support for the process.
8.6 Research records should be retained for only as long as required.
The duration should take into account legislative and regulatory requirements as well as subject specific, administrative and operational needs.
For example this may be constrained to relatively short time periods for personal information subject to the Data Protection Act, ranging perhaps up to decades for long term longitudinal studies.
For further advice contact the Information Governance Team (email: rec-man@ncl.ac.uk ).
8.7 Information generated during the course of research should be kept securely, for the duration above; this includes ensuring that information is not lost, corrupted, or disclosed inappropriately, it may also need to ensure verifiable destruction of information at some point in time.
The means and process for managing the information: storage environment, backup, access control etc must be appropriate to needs – NUIT offer a range of storage and administrative services, also, see the Information Security Policy .
9.1 Researchers should publish at the earliest possible time, taking into account the appropriate medium for the highest publication impact.
Consideration should be given to the provisions of open access for research publications where appropriate.
All outputs should be referenced in MyImpact, the University’s Institutional Repository and therefore linked to the e-prints open access repository.
9.2 Researchers should have regard for the many different routes for dissemination, implementation and commercialisation potential of their work and take appropriate steps to advise the University of any inventions and, where appropriate, take steps to protect any intellectual property prior to publication.
9.3 Whilst the publication of the results of research may need to be delayed for a reasonable period pending protection of intellectual property arising from research, such periods of delay in publication should be kept to a minimum.
9.4 Anyone listed as an author on a paper should accept responsibility for ensuring that he/she is familiar with the contents of the paper and can identify his/her contribution to it and must refer to being part of Newcastle University.
The practice of honorary authorship is unacceptable.
Whilst the University encourages the communication of research to the wider public, normally statements to the media should be made only after consultation with the University Press Office.
Any disclosure to the popular media should endeavour to place the research in its appropriate context and care should be taken not to exaggerate the impact of any findings.
Appropriate training and guidance should be sought concerning dealings with the press and broadcasting media.
11.1 Researchers are expected to maximise the prospects of research being taken into practice through commercial and other exploitation routes by protecting intellectual property (IPR).
11.2 Researchers should ensure that all contracts and agreements are sent through the University’s Research and Enterprise Services to ensure that any contracts or agreements relating to their research contain a provision for IP ownership.
11.3 Where a commercial route is not appropriate then it is expected that researchers will take appropriate steps to ensure that research findings are transferred to relevant user communities.
11.4 Any use of generative AI to create new data as part of the research, must be clearly acknowledged but not listed as an author.
12.1 The contributions of formal collaborators and all others who directly assist or indirectly support the work should be properly acknowledged.
12.2 Researchers should be satisfied that standards and procedures at the organisations with which they are collaborating are suitable for the conduct of the research.
Checks should be made with the Director of Research and Enterprise Services.
14.1 Researchers should declare and manage any real or potential conflicts of interest both financial and professional.
These might include:
Approved by Senate 28th February 2012
This code of practice is consistent with, and is drawn from Codes of Good Research practice published by UKRI, the Wellcome Trust, the Guidelines from the Association of Medical Research Charities and the UKRIO’s Code of Practice for Research.
This code of practice is consistent with, and is drawn from Codes of Good Research practice published by RCUK, the Wellcome Trust, the Guidelines from the Association of Medical Research Charities and the UKRIO’s Code of Practice for Research.
Research Policy, Intelligence and Ethics , Research Strategy and Development
Updated 21st September 2011
Updated links 29th April 2020
Updated links 16th October 2020
Updated links 24th February 2022
Updated links 13th December 2023
Updated 20th November 2024

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/research-governance/research-committee:
The Research Policy Intelligence and Ethics Team helps support the University Research and Innovation Committee.
They also support the PVC for Research Strategy and Resources ( Professor Matthew Grenby ), Faculty Research Deans and other relevant staff to ensure high-quality research is carried out.
The committee meets fortnightly and ensures integration of research through the Faculty Research Committees.
It also plays a central role in administering the University’s Centres of Research Excellence .
University Research Innovation Committee Terms of Reference - Oct 2019 (PDF: 421kb)
Each Faculty has its own research committee.
Contact details are provided below:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/research-governance/ethics:
Ethics is about considering what is right and wrong in the context of the research we engage in.
Newcastle University expects all its researchers to adhere to the highest ethical standards.
In order to support researchers, Newcastle University has established a thorough ethical review procedure, in line with the University's Research Ethics Policy 2024 which all researchers should follow.
Guidance is also available via the Research Ethics e-learning module .
The information on these pages is aimed to guide researchers through the ethical review process.
The Ethics Toolkit is designed to assist students and staff when completing their ethical applications.
We require that the online ethics form is submitted for all projects before any work begins.
Newcastle University’s ethics policy and procedure is designed so that ethics review is proportionate to the potential risk.
Committees responsible for developing and implementing ethical policy and procedure to ensure the highest standards of research at Newcastle University.
Take a look at the ethics FAQs.
We provide a variety of training resources to help support our researchers excel in their roles.
The University has provided a statement on external research projects.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/research-governance/ethics/process:
Staff and students at Newcastle University undertake thousands of (funded and unfunded) projects each year.
The procedure is as follows:
Step 1: The principal investigator completes Newcastle University's Online Ethics Form .
The form is made up of a series of questions, which aim to help the principal investigator identify whether the project is 'high risk' and requires further formal ethical review by a Research Ethics Committee.
Step 2: Once the form is completed and submitted, the principal investigator will receive a notification that either:
Where a principal investigator is applying for funding for a project, at the proposal stage (within NUProjects), the principal investigator is also asked to identify the ethics route that will be required for their project proposal (before the project is submitted and any funding is awarded).
Where a project requires further review, no work should begin until the project is granted ethical approval by the relevant ethics committee.
The decision will be communicated directly from the relevant committee.
Ethics Process flowchart (PDF:181kb)
Newcastle University's online ethics form can be divided into two parts:
Please see sections below for further information.
Preliminary questions
The online ethics form will begin by asking for key details about the project (including, for example, the principal investigator, the title of the project, a short description of the project, details of any existing ethics etc.)
The form will then ask a series of preliminary questions to determine whether the project is considered high risk by Newcastle University, and therefore requires formal ethical review.
There are six sections:
Additional information required for high risk projects
Where a project is considered as ' high risk' by Newcastle University (based on the answers to the preliminary questions on the online ethics form), the form will ask for additional information, including:
Additionally, the form will ask further questions regarding the area of risk that was identified by the preliminary questions.
For example, if the answers to the preliminary responses indicated that there was a potential risk to the environment, further information regarding this risk will be required.
It is recommended that a minimum of 30 minutes is set aside to complete the additional information section of the form.
Should the form take longer than expected, it is possible to save the form by clicking the ‘ Resume later ’ button at the bottom of the webpage.
To return to the form, click the ' Load unfinished survey ' button at the bottom of the webpage.
Once a form has been submitted, amendments cannot be made.
Should the information provided change, a new form will need to be submitted.
Depending on the answers provided to the preliminary questions, there are four potential outcomes:
Please see the sections below for further information.
Projects already granted ethical approval by an external ethics committee:
No further ethical review required
A copy of the form and any supporting documentation will be saved.
The applicant will receive an email confirming the decision, which should be saved for their records.
Where a project is funded and awarded, the decision will be copied onto the relevant NUProjects record.
Ethical approval required from a University Ethics Committee
On submission, the form and any supporting documentation attached are sent directly to the relevant Research Ethics Committee (REC) for review.
The applicant will receive an email confirming their application has been identified as requiring formal review by:
The project will then undergo formal review (please see Ethics Approval Committees for more details).
The applicant will receive an email notifying them of the decision made by the committee, which should be saved for their records.
Committees may:
Research must not commence until the research has undergone ethical review and received approval from the relevant committee.
Where a project is funded and awarded, the decision (and any supporting documentation) will be added to the relevant NUProjects record.
Ethical approval required from NHS/HSC Research Ethics Committee
The applicant will receive an email advising them that the project requires NHS/HSC Research Ethics Committee (REC) approval.
For further information regarding how to apply for NHS/HSC REC approval, please see the Ethics Toolkit - NHS & Social Care .
Where a project is funded and awarded, the outcome of the NHS/HSC REC review will be recorded on the relevant NUProjects record.
Where a researcher wishes to appeal a decision reached by a Faculty Ethics Review Committee (FMS/HaSS/SAgE RECs), they should submit their appeal in writing to the Chair of the Committee, via the Faculty Ethics Coordinator.
The Chair can reject, uphold or ask for an alternative review from within their own committee or another of the Faculty committees.
Following the Chair's decision, if the applicant is still dissatisfied, the matter can be referred for consideration by the Chair of the University Ethics Committee.
Their decision is final.
No research should start until the appeal has been resolved.
If you wish to make an amendment to a low-/high-risk project that has already been approved, please contact res.policy@ncl.ac.uk to clearly explain what it is that you require to change on your project.
Based upon the information you provide, the amendment will either be categorised as low or high risk and will then follow these processes:
Low risk:
If the Research Policy, Intelligence and Ethics Team determine that this amendment is low risk they will amend the ethics survey that you originally submitted, to reference the amendment based upon the information that you have provided.
You will be notified via email of this decision and will receive a pdf copy of the amended ethics survey relating to the project, for your records.
No further actions are required following this process and you can implement the amendment to your project.
High risk:
If the Research Policy, Intelligence and Ethics Team determine that this amendment is high risk, they will notify you of this decision via email.
You will be instructed to contact your Faculty Research Manager in order to inform them of the details of the amendment request and that it has been classified as high risk following the review by the team.
Your amendment request will then be processed at faculty level, who will inform you of a decision directly.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/research-governance/ethics/gdpr:
Where research involves using personal data, under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) participants must be informed of the following:
The above information should be provided within the Participant Information Sheet
If you have any questions, or require further information, please contact rec-man@ncl.ac.uk .
Under GDPR, as of 25th May 2018, you will need to ensure participants are provided with the information required under GDPR if you collect any new personal data, or if you process any personal data already collected.
New studies that were not submitted for ethical approval before 25 May 2018
You will need to ensure that the Participant Information Sheet(s) include the required information.
Studies approved before 25 May 2018 and where new participants are being recruited after 25 May 2018
You will need to provide new participants with the required information, either as a separate document or by updating the Participant Information Sheet.
You should ensure that the separate document or the revised Participant Information Sheet is versioned and dated, and you should record that the amendment to the study document is non-substantial and non-notifiable.
Studies approved before 25 May 2018 and where existing participants are still in the study after 25 May 2018
As participants are still in the study, if personal data is still being collected, you should provide participants with the required information, as a separate document, when data is next collected from them, or sooner if possible.
Where Newcastle University is the sponsor, you should provide your participants with the following information, where this accurately represents how you are using personal data in your research study.
Where the information below does not accurately reflect how you are using personal data information, you will need to revise the information accordingly.
Please contact res.policy@ncl.ac.uk for further information.
Newcastle University will be using information from you [and/or your medical records] in order to undertake this research study and will act as the data controller for this study.
This means that Newcastle University is responsible for looking after your information and using it properly.
When we use personally-identifiable information from people who have agreed to take part in research, we ensure that it is in the public interest.
Your rights to access, change or move your information are limited, as Newcastle University needs to manage your information in specific ways in order for the research to be reliable and accurate.
If you withdraw from the study, Newcastle University will keep the information about you that has already been obtained.
To safeguard your rights, the minimum personally-identifiable information will be used.
You can find out more about how Newcastle University uses your information at https://www.ncl.ac.uk/data.protection/dataprotectionpolicy/privacynotice/ and/or by contacting Newcastle University’s Data Protection Officer (Maureen Wilkinson, rec-man@ncl.ac.uk ).
We will use your name and contact details [insert details applicable e.g.
telephone number, address] to contact you about the research study.
We will use [insert other identifiers e.g.
date of birth] in order to [insert reason for processing].
Individuals at Newcastle University may look at your research data to check the accuracy of the research study.
The only individuals at Newcastle University who will have access to information that identifies you will be individuals who need to contact you to [insert reason] or audit the data collection process.
If you agree to take part in the research study, information provided by you may be shared with researchers running other research studies at Newcastle University and in other organisations.
These organisations may be universities, [and insert as applicable e.g.
NHS organisations].
Your information will only be used by organisations and researchers to conduct research.
And
Either : This information will not identify you and will not be combined with other information in a way that could identify you.
The information will only be used for the purpose research, and cannot be used to contact you.
It will not be used to make decisions about future services available to you.
OR : Your information could be used for research and could be combined with information about you from other sources held by researchers, the NHS or government.
Where this information could identify you, the information will be held securely with strict arrangements about who can access the information.
The information will only be used for the purpose of research, or to contact you about future opportunities to participate in research.
Where there is a risk that you can be identified your data will only be used in research that has been independently reviewed by an ethics committee.
Where the NHS is the sponsor, please see the HRA website for information and/or contact the Newcastle Joint Research Office .
As a university, we use personally-identifiable information to conduct research.
This means that when you agree to take part in a research study, we will use your data in the ways needed to conduct and analyse the research study.
Your right to access, change or move your information are limited, as we need to manage your information in specific ways in order for the research to be reliable and accurate.
If you withdraw from the study, we will keep the information about you that we have already obtained.
To safeguard your rights, we will use the minimum personally-identifiable information possible.
If you wish to raise a complaint on how we have handled your personal data, you can contact our Data Protection Officer who will investigate the matter.
If you are not satisfied with our response or believe we are processing your personal data in a way that is not lawful, you can complain to the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/research-governance/ethics/toolkit:
Guidance for research involving animals.
Ethical and governance considerations for research data.
Guidance for research involving emissions, landscape/cultural heritage effects, fieldwork, sensitive areas, protected sites.
Information on informed and voluntary consent, right to withdraw, privacy and confidentiality, and benefits outweighing risks.
Legal and ethical requirements regarding the collection, storage and disposal of samples.
Information about health research authority approval and good clinical practice.
Guidance for identifying the research sponsor.
Guidance for declaring and managing real/potential conflicts of interest, and considerations for research funding offers.
Other external information sources which may be helpful.
Example documents, including participant information sheets and consent forms.
Requirements for research involving US Federal Agency support.
Find out whether Newcastle University will accept external ethics approvals.
Find out about your obligation to comply with the Nagoya Protocol.
Information for research undertaken outside and/or with collaborators outside the European Economic Area.
Research and innovation activities aimed at enhancing global security.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/research-governance/responsible-research-innovation:
The wider impacts of science and innovation.
The term responsible research innovation (RRI) refers to the wider impacts of science and innovation .
Research has the ability to not only produce understanding, knowledge and value, but also unintended:
As part of the research and innovation process - researchers should reflect on the potential social, cultural, economic and environmental implications of introducing a new product, service, process or business model to market.
Colleagues may wish to refer to the following when considering discipline specific approaches.
Guest speakers from professional bodies, industry and academia can also stimulate conversations around responsible research innovation in different subject areas.
The University has developed a tool to help researchers identify potential RRI considerations in their research.
This form can be used to support funding applications, where appropriate.
RRI Self Assessment Tool
An online toolkit has been developed to help University colleagues and students understand how to embed the principles of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) in research.
RRI Resources for the Research Community : including tools, inspiring practices and list of EU funded projects.
Horizons Toolkit : a practical tool developed by Innovate UK to identify the trends, risks and opportunities associated with bringing a product to market.
Societal Readiness Thinking Tool : offers practical guidance on embedding RRI in research projects.
Developed as part of the EU funded NewHORRIzon project.
Responsible AI UK : an international network aimed at promoting responsible AI research and innovation.
External training providers such as ORBIT and Skillfluence can provide customised training for PhD student cohorts and research groups.
Edinburgh University has produced a short training video on data ethics, AI and responsible innovation.
University College London (UCL) offer a CPD accredited online short course on responsible innovation for researchers.
Aachen University has produced a responsible innovators of tommorrow MOOC with a focus on science and technology studies.
Faculty research offices provide local support for researchers developing proposals and the management of Doctoral Training Centres at Newcastle University.
The University's EDI team can offer advice on equality, diversity and inclusion matters.
The Engagement and Place Team (staff login required) can also offer advice on public engagement activities.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/research-governance/animal:
Animal research plays a vital role in developing our understanding of health and disease.
UK standards of care are among the highest in the world, and we strictly enforce them.
Research using animals has helped conquer many of the world's diseases and other health problems and is crucial to the fight against cancer, heart disease, diabetes and other conditions which are prevalent in the 21st century.
The vast majority of the medical research at Newcastle does not involve experiments on animals and the University is committed to the development of alternative methods, such as computer modelling, tissue culture, cell and molecular biology, and research with human subjects.
Research is also dedicated to understanding animal behaviour and improving the welfare and well-being of animals in different environments including laboratory, farm, companion of wild animals.
Newcastle University is a signatory of the national declaration on openness on animal research .
and has been recognised as a Leader in Openness in Animal Research since the inception of the award in 2019.
To find out more about our research involving animals and animal welfare, visit the Centre for Behaviour and Evolution .
Research using animals has made, and continues to make, a vital contribution to the understanding, treatment and cure of a range of major 21st century health problems including cancer, heart disease, diabetes and mental illness.
While new methods have enabled scientists and medical researchers to reduce work involving animals, some work must continue for further fundamental advances to be made.
In addition to using animals in a small proportion of its medical research, the University is also dedicated to research that aims to increase our understanding of animal behaviour and welfare.
This research provides novel solutions, particularly in the areas of conservation and welfare, which can then be applied to a range of farm, companion, wild and laboratory animals.
Newcastle University only uses animals in regulated research programmes (under the Animal Scientfic Procedures Act 1986) which are of the highest quality and where there are no alternatives.
Much of this work is carried out under licences issued by the Home Secretary requiring the systematic weighing the potential benefits against the effects on the animals concerned.
The University is committed to the principles of reduction, refinement and replacement in animal research; for each project it ensures that animal use is clearly justified (Replacement) that the number of animals used is appropriate for the scientific objectives (Reduction) and that procedures, care routines and husbandry are refined to maximise welfare (Refinement).
The University's Animal Welfare Ethical Review Body (AWERB) considers proposals for all activities that involve living animals (e.g.
research, teaching and engagement activities).
It includes lay representation and provides ethical advice on standards of animal care, welfare and accommodation.
The University ensures that those working with animals are aware of their responsibilities and receive appropriate training.
Veterinary and animal care staff are actively involved in the ethical review of research, welfare and care of animals.
They provide ongoing advice and support to researchers where necessary.
For biomedical research, the University is committed to the development of alternative methods to using live animals such as computer modelling, tissue culture, cell and molecular biology, and research with human subjects.
Procedures on animals are replaced with non-animal techniques wherever possible and this is reflected in the fact that the vast majority of biomedical research conducted at the University does not involve experiments on animals.
Where the use of animals remains essential, the University applies high standards of a culture of care and respect for animal welfare.
Newcastle University is proud of its achievements in improving the welfare of laboratory animals, for which it has won national and international awards.
The University is one of a small number of institutions that has active research programmes in this field and contributes to the development of further improvements in UK standards of laboratory animal care, which are already amongst the highest in the world.
Examples include improving the detection and alleviation in pain and distress in a wide variety of species.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/research-governance/research-metrics:
Newcastle University policy statement on responsible use of research metrics.
Newcastle University recognises that the responsible use of metrics can support the delivery of our Research Strategy’ s ambition to catalyse transformative research within and between disciplines, and build a positive and thriving research culture.
As such, we have produced this Policy Statement and associated guidance on appropriate use of quantitative research metrics as part of responsible research assessment.
[1] The University became a signatory to DORA in 2017 and reaffirmed a commitment to the principles of DORA in the REF code of practice published in 2019.
The use of research metrics falls within the context of the University Code of Good Practice in Research.
This policy statement builds on these commitments and a number of other prominent external initiatives, including the Leiden Manifesto for Research Metrics and Metric Tide report .
The latter urged UK institutions to develop a statement of principles on the use of quantitative indicators in research management and assessment, where metrics should be considered in terms of robustness (using the best available data); humility (recognising that quantitative evaluation can complement, but does not replace, expert assessment); transparency (keeping the collection of data and its analysis open to scrutiny); diversity (reflecting a multitude of research and researcher career paths); and reflexivity (updating our use of metrics to take account of the effects that such measures have had).
Implementation of this statement supports our strategic ambitions, and our institutional commitment to the Concordat for Research Integrity and the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers , and is supported (and in some cases, mandated) by research funders in the UK (e.g., UKRI, Wellcome Trust etc.).
This statement will evolve as we develop the University’s Research Culture Action Plan in consultation with students, colleagues and external partners.
This statement is integral to our commitment to developing all members of the research community across career stages and job families.
It will support our aim to cultivate a research culture that recognises diverse contributions to research, and to build a research culture that values inclusive collaboration, integrity, transparency, and global visibility.
We recognize that Newcastle University is a diverse university, and metrics will be used in ways that are sensitive to disciplinary and local contexts.
This Policy Statement is deliberately flexible to allow for the diversity of contexts, and is not intended to provide a comprehensive set of rules.
We recognize that metrics are often more appropriate to evaluate the collective contribution of teams, and are less useful in the evaluation of individual contributions which may be diverse.
At the University, we endeavour to use metrics to provide a collective picture of how we are performing against our strategy.
To help put this Statement into practice, we will provide an evolving set of guidance material to include more detailed discussion and examples of how these principles could be applied.
Newcastle University is committed to valuing research and researchers based on their merits, not the merits of metrics.
In the future, we will provide relevant training for all members of our research community through the Newcastle University Skills Academy.
The implementation of this Statement will include establishing a review and monitoring process, enabling regular institutional review of adherence to these principles, as well as mechanisms for reporting and addressing breaches of the principles.
This guidance is provided to ensure that research assessment activities are carried out in line with the three principles below.
Support expert judgement
Be fit for purpose
Be transparent
[1] The term “research assessment” refers to the evaluation of research quality and measurements of research inputs, outputs and impacts, and embraces both qualitative and quantitative methodologies, including the application of bibliometric indicators and mapping, and peer review.
Research assessment can take place across a wide range of contexts, from responding to national research assessment exercises to evaluating individual candidates during recruitment exercises.
Further Resources
Policy Approved by Senate 30th June 2021

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/research-governance/export:
The UK Export Control Act aims to promote global security through strategic export controls.
Export controls are designed to restrict the export and communication of sensitive technology or strategic goods , with the aim of preventing international terrorism and the development or use of Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMDs).
These controls apply to activities at Newcastle University in the same way that they would apply to any other organisation.
If an activity falls under the scope of UK Export Control legislation, an Export Licence will be required to move or take goods, software and technology outside of the UK.
This applies to both:
Export controls apply to two categories of technology, data and know-how:
University colleagues can either use a key term to search the Online Goods Checker or refer to the consolidated list of military and dual-use items that require export authorisation to find out whether their technology is controlled.
The following exemptions or de-controls may apply to academic research:
However, if there are any end-use / end-user concerns , these exemptions do not apply.
Goods not listed as controlled technology may still require an Export Licence.
This is the case if there are any concerns regarding the organisation, company or institution that you are planning to engage with regarding the end-use of the technology.
This includes collaborators, visitors, international travel and teaching in countries of potential concern (internal login required), which may be subject to sanctions.
All Unversity colleagues have a legal responsibility to comply with Export Control legislation where it applies to their activities.
The consequences of non-compliance include:
Further guidance and support is available to University staff and students to raise awareness of legal requirements.
There are two main types of licences that apply to University activities, find out more on how to apply.
The University is committed to managing risks in international research and innovation.
The University is committed to teaching excellence and providing a quality student experience.
All students and colleagues must complete a travel risk assessment form, find out more.
Visiting staff at Newcastle University make a valuable contribution to our international teaching and research.
Further information for University colleagues and students about export control.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/research-governance/open-research:
A means of maximising the visibility and impact of research for public benefit in accordance with the University vision and strategy.
The increased transparency, reliability and reproducibility of open research has the potential to improve public trust, promote inclusivity and lead to the creation and use of new knowledge.
Open research aims to increase openness throughout the whole research life cycle by providing free access to research methods and protocols, data, software and publications.
Open research is a means of maximising the visibility and impact of research for public benefit, find out more.
See our statement and guidance on appropriate use of quantitative research metrics.
The research data service has been created to assist researchers during the three key stages of the data lifecycle.
Open access enables free online access to research publications with limited restrictions over reuse.
Where research involves using personal data, under GDPR, participants must be informed about certain information.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/research-governance/policies:
Due Diligence Framework for External University Activity

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/support:
We work in partnership with local research administrators in our faculties, schools, institutes and other research units as well as other professional service units.
Professional services colleagues provide advice to the University's academic community across a range of functions.
This is by no means an exhaustive list but demonstrates the breadth of activities carried out by the research and innovation team.
We also manage any internal and external reviews of research including the Research Excellence Framework (REF) strategy, planning and submission.
Meet our research and innovation teams
To support our researchers, we provide a variety of training with plenty of opportunities for development.
Assisting students and staff when completing their ethical applications.
International research plays a key role in our research strategy (internal access).

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/people:
Meet our team
Research and Innovation Executive Team
Research Strategy
Research Funding Development
Research Policy Intelligence and Ethics
Newcastle Joint Research Office
Research Grants and Contracts
Company Creation​
Commercial Projects
Business Support
Partnerships Team
Enterprise Services

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/support/equipment:
Find out what equipment we have here at the university.
At Newcastle University we use the UK Higher Education National Equipment register which is designed to help make the University’s Research Equipment discoverable and to facilitate sharing across the institution and to others.
In line with UKRI requirements, we include assets which have been purchased for over £100,000 or which have been identified as being particularly suitable for sharing both externally and internally.
Download our equipment list in raw form (XLSX:164kb)
The original driver for its set up was the Wakeham Review and the 50%‌ reduction in capital budgets at the last Comprehensive Spending Review.
This resulted in new requirements from RCUK (effective from 1 May 2011) to check for existing local equipment before applying for new items.
As well as equipment.data, we also share an equipment list with the N8 Research Partnership.
This is a collaboration between the 8 universities in the north of England, which as well as Newcastle includes Durham, York, Sheffield, Lancaster, Liverpool, Manchester and Leeds.
You can find our equipment list as well as the other universities on the N8 Research Partnership website .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/support/development:
At Newcastle University, we implement the principles of the Researcher Development Concordat.
We strongly encourage our researchers to engage in at least 10 days of pro rata professional development each year.
Their skills will benefit a wide range of employment sectors.
Our approach to researcher development is as unique as you are.
Whether you’re an early-career researcher or a seasoned academic, we offer a range of services tailored to your individual needs:
The Researcher Development Concordat is a vital agreement in the UK.
It aims to improve employment conditions and support researchers’ careers within higher education.
Newcastle University is proud to support the career development of our researchers.
As a signatory of the Concordat, we have committed to:
For further information, please contact: organisational.development@newcastle.ac.uk
Through our Doctoral College, you'll get all the support you need to develop into an independent researcher.
You will also gain the skills to progress to a variety of careers.
Our aim is for you to develop a broad range of research and professional skills while carrying out your original research.
Our faculties provide a researcher training and development programme.
They offer a range of workshops, events and other learning opportunities to suit your individual needs.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/technicians-community:
The Technicians' Community aims to drive forward the development and recognition of technical support staff.
Discover the categories for our NU Technician Awards and cast your votes from September 2026.
There are technicians in all walks of life doing a variety of interesting and important work.
Technicians build the aircraft engines that fly people around the world.
Technicians undertake lab research to help find a cure for cancer.
Technicians design the lighting for the world's biggest entertainment events.
Newcastle University's Technician Community aims to further develop and recognise technical support staff through regular events.
Save the date for our Technician Partnership Conference 2026, a 500 delegate one day technician conference at Newcastle University on the 1 July 2026.
NU TechNet at Newcastle University is a forum that supports its community of technicians and welcomes involvement from all technical colleagues, across all disciplines.
The University employs approximately 350 technicians in academic units who provide a variety of specialist skills and knowledge that enhances the teaching and research capabilities of our institution.
NU TechNet helps them to connect with each other and bring about improvements in the workplace.
It provides regular networking opportunities to share information, offer peer support and provides learning and development activities and events.
The University has pledged to support the Technician Commitment action plan 2024-2026 for technical staff based in faculties.
NU TechNet has a leading role in shaping and delivering some of the activities set out in the Technician Commitment Action Plan.
The Technician Commitment is a university and research institution initiative that aims to ensure visibility, recognition, career development and sustainability for technicians working in Higher Education and research.
Working together with Organisational Development, the network Chair and Events Committee meet regularly to develop and organise activities.
They act as contacts for TechNet and help share information across faculties, so technicians are kept up to date with upcoming activities and opportunities.
Current members include:
Technicians can also get involved and keep up to date on activities, news and opportunities by joining NU TechNet Community on Teams .
The Technician Commitment is a significant initiative aimed at enhancing the visibility, recognition, career development, and sustainability of technicians, technologists, and skills specialists working in higher education (HE) and research.
Launched in 2017, it represents a collaborative effort across the UK's education and research sector to address key challenges faced by technical staff.
The commitment has four main areas of focus:
The impact of the Technician Commitment within the HE sector has been substantial.
It has garnered support from over 100 signatory institutions, who have pledged to take action to support their technical staff.
This has led to significant cultural changes within these institutions.
Improving the work environment and career prospects for technicians.
The initiative has also attracted considerable investment.
Both financial and in-kind, to develop and deliver activities related to the commitment.
Moreover, it has leveraged external funding to support the technical community further.
The Technician Commitment is an initiative which requires institutions to make a pledge to support technicians in the key areas above.
NU was a founder signature in 2017 and since then has progressed the agenda through a series of Action Plans.
These are signed off by the VC and President before being peer reviewed.
Feedback received on the last three action plans has been excellent.
Some of the key highlights of the Technician commitment at Newcastle that formed part of our submission to the UK-ITSS in January 2024 were:
The Technician Commitment leads at NU are Mel Leitch and Julie Bullimore.
The Working in Partnership Technician Commitment Forum was created by Linda Robinson, Organisational Development Lead and Mel Leitch, Technical Manager, in September 2018.
The forum recognises that Technicians as a group often have limited reach within Universities to implement change however by working in partnership with Organisation / colleague developers, they can be much more effective in implementing the changes needed to support the Technician Commitment.
We aim to hold two meetings per year (February and September) in Newcastle to explore elements of the Technician Commitment and to share best practice.
Initially the forum was aimed at northern universities with each sending an organisational development lead and a technical lead.
We are delighted that representatives now come from further afield including Scotland and Northern Ireland.
The value of attending these meetings is to engage and share best practice.
If you are interested in being involved, please contact Mel at: mel.leitch@newcastle.ac.uk
Technician Commitment action plan 2024-2026 (PDF: 834kb)
Mel Leitch: mel.leitch@newcastle.ac.uk
Julie Bullimore: julie.bullimore@newcastle.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/facilities:
Our facilities underpin much of Newcastle University's world-class research.
They provide access to state of the art equipment, specialist expertise, and dedicated analytical and testing services.
Access to multiple facilities in combination can be a particularly powerful resource.
You can search for the facility you require using the alphabetical listing.
Archaeolgy Laboratory
Agriculture Facilities (NU Farms)
Biobanks
BioImaging
Bioinformatics
Biological Engineering : Wastewater Innovation at Scale (BEWISe)
Bio Screening
Brain Tissue Resource
Civil Engineering Facilities
Clinical Trials Unit
Clinical Research Facility
Colour Vision Testing Services
Earthslides Facility
Electrocephalography (EEG)
Electron Microscopy
Flow Cytometry
Genomics
Human Developmental Biology Resource
Infectious Disease
In Vivo Imaging
Marine Scicence Facilities
Marine Technology Facilities
Mass Spectrometry
NanoString nCounter Analysis System
NMR
Northern Orthopaedic Retrievals Services (NORS)
NU-Food
Pharmacy Research Laboratory Facilities
Preclinical In Vivo Imaging
Protein and Proteomics Facility
SEM/EDX and Raman
Spatially Resolved Transcriptomatics
Spectroscopy and Elemental Analysis
Tyne Pressure Testing
X-Ray Diffraction

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/funding:
We receive funding from a wide variety of funders worldwide.
This includes Research Councils, major charities, European Union, UK Government departments and industry.
Research funding is one of the indicators of the performance of the University.
It's most important because these grants enable us to do the research that pushes back the boundaries of knowledge.
It allows our creativity to flourish, and helps to make our world better.
This table gives a breakdown of new external research funding awards for year ending 31 July 2023:
Our Horizon 2020 brochure celebrates our first successes in the EU's Horizon 2020 Framework Programme for research and innovation.
This brochure showcases a selection of Newcastle University’s successful ERC projects.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/research/contacts:
Our Research and Innovation team are here to support and develop all University research, commercial services, intellectual property, consultancy, and other externally funded projects.
Kings Gate Building Level 5 Newcastle University Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 7RU
business@ncl.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/work-with-us:
We work with partners to shape brighter futures, grow the economy and champion social justice.
We work with a range of partners including:
Our engagement and place strategy is locally rooted, nationally connected and globally engaged.
Read our current impact report, People, Planet and Prosperity 2024 , to see how we support the health, wealth and wellbeing of our region and beyond.
We can work with you to innovate, overcome challenges and grow your business.
From patient engagement to social justice, we can collaborate with you.
We collaborate across the globe, finding solutions that can change our world.
If you’re a cultural organisation, find out how you could work with us.
Our academics can provide research findings to support policy development.
Whether it's visits to campus or resources for teachers, we want our research and education to be as accessible as possible.
Recruit talent, increase awareness of your brand on campus and raise your profile with Newcastle University.
The University organises a range of public events, from public lectures to music performances.
If you're interested in finding out more about engagement activities at Newcastle University, contact engage@newcastle.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/business-and-partnerships/case-studies:
How we're working with organisations to help innovate and grow businesses.
A three year KTP helped this Yorkshire-based farming services company to improve crop yields
Working with NU Solve to tackle the damage invasive species have across trees in the UK through mathematical models and bespoke computational statistical techniques.
Our Human Nutrition and Exercise Research Centre is helping BetterYou assess whether its oral spray vitamin D is more effective than capsules in supporting nutritional repletion in groups prone to be low in vitamin D.
Working with Newcastle University's Arrow team helped LightOx to understand how their compounds might benefit other areas of medicine and research.
Demonstrating the potential of seaweed for use in laundry detergents, cleaning efficiently and effectively at low temperatures.
Arrow provided Armatrex with the skills and knowledge required to realise their commercial goals, and take their idea from paper to finished product.
The theatre seized opportunities offered by digital tech to inspire new artists and audiences and to reach people in remote locations.
Our Principal Partner Status with the global technology giant support research, innovation, students and more.
A 15-year long relationship of using school of Engineering expertise to support gear development and distribution.
Providing academic and pharmaceutical industry research groups with compounds such as plasmalogens at relatively low cost.
Seven companies from the food and drink industry provided expertise around the technical challenges of adding more protein to products.
Leading the way in developing a new generation of recyclable, lightweight and energy-efficient motors.
Our experience as biologists and single-cell technologists supports this global pharmaceutical company.
Digital twins, low-carbon water treatment and student placements are all part of our work together.
Arrow equipped a local business – which provides services for dementia sufferers and their families – with digital expertise to get their new product off the ground.
Specialist advice for hydroponic vertical farming SME to take their business further.
Arrow helped Nebula Labs to develop the data expertise they needed to launch an innovative new transport monitoring system.
Developing domain knowledge of degradation within various battery technologies to support the creation of digital services for energy storage solutions.
Settld helps to remove the added anxiety from end-of-life admin when a loved one has died.
Working with Arrow allowed Settld to develop their app.
Aiming for Net Zero, creating the first ViTAL Living Lab, and showcasing the history of space operations are just some of the ways we’re working in partnership with the RAF to serve society.
How we are developing methodology to better manage the world’s fish stocks and enable progress towards healthier oceans.
With support from Newcastle START UP, Kinewell Energy has developed innovative, cost-optimisation solutions for offshore wind to support the global transition to net-zero.
Working with Arrow allowed Nanovery to identify a first commercial target for their device and provided access to expertise on how to validate the prototype.
Discover how this "spin in" company is helping us to establish the North East of England as a hub for battery and electric vehicle research and innovation.
Get the latest business news and events.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/business-and-partnerships/expert-solutions:
There are many different ways for you to work with our University.
If you are a North East SME we can match you to University experts to help accelerate innovation in your business.
Clinical research with NHS, charity and industry partners is a key part of our work to help create a world in which we all live better, for longer.
By working together we can develop new knowledge and technologies for your business.
We can help unlock R&D funding for your business.
If you are looking for investment or leadership opportunities our Spin Out companies are a great place to look.
We create new companies to take IP forward.
Investors and executive leaders are vital.
Sometimes you need specialist knowledge to help your business thrive, grow and innovate.
Whatever your business, your team needs to keep skills and knowledge up to date.
Our CPD courses can help develop the professional, technical and leadership skills your team needs.
If we’re working together across lots of different projects, a corporate partnership provides a managed platform for our work.
We also run events that connect our partners with each other.
Degree apprenticeships are a great way of developing a skilled workforce through combining job training with study.
Our world class research facilities, specialist equipment and experienced staff can provide testing and analytical insight to support your business.
Connecting businesses and students creates a wide range of benefits for everybody involved.
You can improve your business' competitiveness and productivity through funded partnerships with academics and researchers.
Our world class research has created a wide range of intellectual property.
Your organisation could be best placed to take our technology forward.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/business-and-partnerships/expert-solutions/cpd:
Take your team’s skills to the next level with our CPD programmes and short courses.
Investing in your team’s skills can bring huge benefits for both your organisation and your team members.
At Newcastle University, we provide a broad range of professional development courses to help your team reach their full potential.
We deliver professional development programmes for a wide range of organisations around the world in a wide range of industries, from government agencies and healthcare providers to well-known brands.
Our continuing professional development (CPD) programmes combine world-leading research with specialist expertise, so you can equip your team with the knowledge they need to succeed.
Many of our CPD courses award academic credits and are accredited by professional bodies, so you can be assured of the quality of delivery.
Unless otherwise stated, ‘accredited’ refers to academic accreditation by Newcastle University and means that participants will be formally assessed against specific learning outcomes.
Accreditation may either be at the level of a programme or an individual module.
If courses are accredited by the University, this is shown alongside the course title, as displayed in the A-Z course list.
Upon successful completion of full programme, participants will receive a transcript and University Award .
Those successfully completing a module will receive a transcript and a Certificate of Credit Achieved that shows the number and academic level of credits awarded.
Many courses also have CPD accreditation from the appropriate professional body - information is on the individual course pages.
This type of course will have no final assessment and carries no University credit, although it may count towards CPD accreditation from a professional body.
A Certificate of Completion may be supplied on completion of the course stating the course title and number of CPD hours studied.
This is normally sufficient for professional bodies as proof of CPD credit for their records.
This refers to accredited modules that are taught independently and not as part of a programme of study.
Very often these are modules that cover specific areas of curricula and are more useful for professional students as they concentrate on desired knowledge areas.
This refers to the framework that enables the University to award stand-alone module credit.
There are also a growing number of awards that can be made by putting together stand alone modules in related subject areas.
As well as courses that are open to everyone, we can also offer bespoke CPD courses tailored to your business needs.
Our bespoke courses can consider:
Courses can be delivered on campus or online, so no matter where you are in the world, we can provide professional development for your team.
Discover how Newcastle University could support your team's continuing professional development
We’ve developed high level and high-quality professional development courses for a wide range of organisations in a variety of industries across the public and private sector.
This includes organisations such as:
To keep its members up-to-date with the latest developments the BGA runs regular seminars that are delivered by Newcastle University's School of Engineering.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/business-and-partnerships/expert-solutions/collaborative-research:
Collaborating on research leads to positive impact for your organisation.
Working together on research can give your organisation a significant competitive advantage.
We work with partners throughout the private and public sector.
Together we create new inventions and technologies and turn ideas into products and services.
We can help you to unlock various funding streams.
We have a deep knowledge of funding schemes that support collaboration.
There are many schemes that focus on businesses and not-for-profits.
Every partnership is unique.
We can find a way to work together that suits you.
We work across huge range of fields, sometimes in quite surprising places .
Your organisation could lead or join a group tackling a particular challenge, or building on an idea.
Our researchers and partners are developing solutions to some of the most pressing problems facing the world today.
You can ask us to undertake research for you.
Focussing on the creation of new knowledge and understanding, research is different to consultancy.
You can be sure of a world class, independent, rigorous project.
We have several schemes to help your organisation innovate.
Some of our schemes can support you with quick, focussed projects.
Others provide much longer, deeper support.
Our Arrow team is your "front door" to all of our services.
They will listen to your thoughts and questions.
Together you will shape your ideas and questions into a project.
Then you will be connected to the best team to help.
PhD students are the future research leaders.
Our Doctoral College and Doctoral Training Centres can help you work with emerging research talent.
Our research influences policy at local, national and international levels.
From food standards to helping society's marginalised groups, climate change adaptation to regulatory science of medicines, together we can exchange knowledge and expertise.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/business-and-partnerships/expert-solutions/company-creation:
There are opportunities for investment, partnership and leadership roles with the new companies we create each year.
Can you help us to create our next spin-out companies?
We're looking for somebody who will be at the heart of collaborating with academic founders and investors to bring bold new ventures to life.
We support and facilitate the creation of high-tech, innovative companies.
We identify and "spin out" commercial and not-for-profit activities from our world class research.
You might be interested in investing or partnering with one of our companies.
Or you might want to join as an experienced executive who can support a company's growth.
If you're an investor, an adviser or an academic and interested in working with us and our portfolio of companies, please get in touch .
We have an excellent track record for producing spin-out companies from applied research.
We also play a significant role in the development of new products and services.
Our spin out companies contribute to the development and vitality of the region through new jobs and revenue creation.
We support our deep tech and innovative spin-out companies to maximize their growth and success.
This may involve recruiting executives with a high level of business acumen and experience in scaling up businesses.
We want to attract ambitious, experienced, and well-networked business executives to early-stage ventures.
We offer remuneration and equity.
We are particularly looking for executives with experience in deep tech life sciences and engineering.
If you believe you have the skills and experience to lead a spin-out business, or want to find out more, get in touch.
We are founding members of the Northern Accelerator programme.
This is a collaboration between the universities in the north east of England.
The programme has accelerated the commercialisation of innovation.
It boosts our region’s economy, making a real-world impact from world-leading research.
Our spin-out companies are at the forefront of innovation, transforming groundbreaking ideas and discoveries into commercial, high growth propositions.
Whether angel, venture or institutional investing, we can present:
Our intellectual property policy is a public document.
It outlines the support we offer to spin-out company creation and our founding equity position.
Investing in Newcastle University spin-outs is more than a financial opportunity.
It’s a chance to be part of a transformative journey.
Together, we can accelerate innovation, deliver impact, and create lasting value.
The unique, low cost traction motor technology will drive tomorrow's hybrid, range extended and electric commercial vehicles.
The technology delivers excellent performance in a robust package.
Find out more about Advanced Electric Machines
Aelius Biotech is a contract research company specialising in modelling the mucosal surfaces of the aerodigestive tract.
Aelius' Integrated Model Gut System is a lab model.
It stretches from the mouth to the large intestine.
It can be used to test drug delivery and absorption, screen formulations, develop and test functional foods and study pre- and pro- biotics.
Find out more about Aelius Biotech
Alcyomics is a UK based unique pre-clinical service provider using Skimune®.
This is a non-artificial human skin explant for safety and efficacy assessment of novel compounds and drugs.
Their aim is to provide novel solutions for pre-clinical drug safety and efficacy testing for therapeutics.
This includes cellular therapies and to extend its technologies for use in the chemical and cosmetic industries.
Find out more about Alcyomics
Armatus Oceanic is deep-sea venture focused on making the deep sea accessible to all.
They continue to develop and deploy underwater technology.
This allows the exploration and surveying of up to 11,000 meters below the ocean’s surface.
Find out more about Armatus Oceanics
AMLo Biosciences provides a prognostic test for early AJCC Stage I and Stage II melanoma.
This will better identify a patient’s true risk of disease progression.
They have identified two proteins (AMBLor®) in the skin overlying the primary tumour that are lost in high-risk melanoma.
Find out more about AMLo Biosciences
Atelerix offers a transformative hydrogel technology for the storage and transport of viable cells.
This includes stem cells and cell-based assays at ambient temperatures.
It overcomes the barriers presented by the current need for cryo-shipping.
It's simple, cell-friendly and offers immediate access to stem cell therapies.
Find out more about Atelerix
Apix Nutrition's proprietary range of novel feeds for honeybees delivers a balanced and healthy diet in pre-pack and ready-to-eat formats.
Their aim is to address a failure in the market for effective bee nutrition throughout the world.
Find out more about APIX Nutrition
3D Bio-Tissues is a leading provider of cutting-edge technologies in corneal 3D printing.
Professor Che Connon at Newcastle University founded the company.
20 years of knowledge, performing cutting edge research, was fundamental to the understanding of how the cornea works .
Find out more about 3D Bio-Tissues
CellRev’s mission is to be the leader in continuous cell culturing technologies.
It provides clients with highly sophisticated and innovative products.
They have expertise in the design and bioactivity testing of peptide-based molecules for biotechnological applications.
CellRev has also developed a smart coating.
This demonstrates the concept of continuous cell manufacture.
Find out more about CellRev
Demuris is a drug discovery and development company.
It employs state-of-the-art platform technologies in natural product discovery, design and production.
Demuris’ portfolio of new drug development often lies in a unique collection of Actinomycete bacteria.
They can manipulate the behaviour of surrounding organisms, including bacteria, fungi, plants and animals.
Find out more about Demuris (Odyssey)
Dragonfly Insulation Ltd scales up aerogel manufacture.
Based on innovative and simplified manufacturing processes, with low energy consumption, it offers various forms of aerogel products .
Find out more about Dragonfly Insulation Ltd
ESPDx developed a simple and accurate test for early-stage diagnosis and early pre-symptomatic detection of both dementia with Lewy Bodies and Parkinson's disease.
The test measures biomarkers in extracellular vesicles.
It enables early and accurate diagnosis of neurodegenerative disorders for:
Find out more about ESP Diagnostics Ltd
e-Therapeutics plc accelerates drug discovery through a novel view of disease networks.
They combine a computer-based platform and biological expertise to create and analyse disease network models.
Potential proteins are identified that could be disrupted to treat the disease.
Find out more about e-Therapeutics
FibroFind provides world class research solutions in liver, kidney and lung disease.
In 2025, FibroFind was acquired by private equity firm Vespa Capital.
Find out more about FibroFind
GitLife have introduced CellRepo, the first Version Control System for Synthetic Biology.
They aim to set the global standard in the management of provenance and integrity for biological assets; enabling the potential of synthetic biology to be realised worldwide.
Find out more about GitLife
GlycoScore is a patented blood test that detects a panel of novel biomarkers and can accurately diagnose prostate cancer.
The GlycoScore analytes are detected using a simple method called ELISA.
This makes the test easily adoptable by pathology labs worldwide with no additional capital investment needed.
Find out more about GlycoScore
Indicatrix offers a unique under oil micro crystallisation technique for the crystallisation of organic soluble small molecules.
This enables solid state molecular structural analysis in the pharmaceutical and chemical industries.
Indicatrix performs thousands of individual experiments with only a few milligrams of analyte.
It enables them to solve the most challenging industrial small molecule crystallisation problems.
Find out more about Indicatrix Crystallography
JawSpace is a company that ‘spun in’ to the University in 2024.
JawSpace provides guidance and the opportunity for people to self-manage Temporomandibular Disorders (TMD).
TMD are a group of conditions affecting the jaw joint and associated structures including the muscles that move it.
TMD are the 2nd most common cause of facial pain after toothache and can also result in difficulties with jaw function, e.g.
limited mouth opening or ‘locking’.
JawSpace provides comprehensive self-management tools and strategies tailored to the individual user, helping them to live well by effectively managing their TMD symptoms.
Find out more at: www.jawspace.com
Jetbio has been established to commercialise Newcastle University's patented bioprinting technology.
Their reactive jet impingement (ReJI) bioprinting technology is a fast, flexible system for printing biomimetic cell filled gels for use in developing in vitro disease models for drug testing, or to support regenerative medicine.
Literal Labs aims to redefine Artificial Intelligence and make AI a universally accessible tool.
Their focus is developing a novel edge, AI chip architecture that is based on propositional logic.
Find out more about Literal Labs
MarraBio design, engineer and construct bacterial protein polymers, that contain the biological messages that cells need to grow, divide, and behave properly.
Cells grown on an industrial scale for research, agricultural or therapeutic use need to be supplied with the right signals.
MarraBio provide a multi-functional, cost-effective solution in a single, easy to use material.
Find out more about MarraBio
METzero helps water companies decarbonise and get value out of their wastewater.
The company's technology uses Microbial Electrolysis Cells (MECs) to treat wastewater in an innovative way .
Naturally occurring electrogenic bacteria digest organic waste anaerobically.
These bacteria donate electrons to an electrical circuit during this process, producing a small current.
To enhance the efficiency and output of our system, we apply a controlled potential difference across the electrodes.
This adjustment allows us to generate various valuable by-products at the cathode, such as hydrogen and ammonia, directly from the treatment process.
Find out more on the METzero website .
Microbritt is a rapid micro-manufacturing company.
It's similar to 3D printing services for the manufacturing of novel complex microscale products from brittle materials, like silicon.
Customers are able to make products which can't be manufactured using conventional technology.
They also make them faster.
Find out more about Microbritt
Newcells Biotech specialises in producing induced pluripotent stem cells and their differentiation into various cell and tissue types.
They offer high quality cells and services for customers engaged in:
Find out more about Newcells Biotech
NunaBio invents, designs and engineers new technologies and products for chemical and biological applications.
Their main areas of focus include:
Find out more about NunaBio
Scubatx develops technology to preserve organs.
In doing so they offer healthcare providers significant net savings.
They help clinicians around the world to increase the pool of life-giving organs.
Find out more about Scubatx
Skin Life Analytics developed a non-invasive test that can reveal if a person's skin is at risk of ageing prematurely.
This could be from lifestyle risks such as exposure to sunlight and poor sleep, which can damage skin cells.
In addition to a skin swab, the test includes a lifestyle assessment that can suggest changes to improve skin condition.
They also utilise face scan technology to pinpoint areas that would benefit from a targeted care regime.
Find out more about Skin Life Analytics
TREAT-NMD is a network for the neuromuscular field.
It provides an infrastructure to ensure that the most promising new therapies reach patients as quickly as possible.
Their focus is to develop tools that industry, clinicians and scientists need to bring novel therapeutic approaches through preclinical development and into the clinic.
Find out more about TREAT-NMD
XR Therapeutics (XRT) provides a step-change in the way therapeutic interventions for anxiety are delivered.
This is for people with autism, phobias and situation-specific anxieties.
XRT's product integrates traditional CBT and exposure therapies using various virtual reality environments.
Find out more about XR Therapeutics
We have extensive, hands on experience of creating and successfully managing new businesses.
Our team includes:
If you would like to discuss any business opportunities with the team please contact Caitlin Jardine , our Company Creation Administrator.
The spin-out's Tsetlin machine approach is developing faster machine learning that uses less energy.
The investment is also Northern Gritstone’s first investment linked to Newcastle University.
The Newcastle University spin-out has been acquired by private equity firm Vespa Capital in a move set to accelerate the company’s international growth.
A new 3D bio-printer that produces human-like tissue holds the potential to revolutionise the discovery of new drugs for cancer, heart disease and arthritis.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/business-and-partnerships/expert-solutions/consultancy:
An efficient, confidential and commercially-sensitive service for your organisation.
The expertise of our academics and researchers is available to your organisation.
Consultancy differs from research.
Typically, research is centred around the creation of new knowledge.
Consultancy often takes place over much shorter time periods and draws on existing expertise and knowledge.
We provide consultancy to a huge range of clients across the UK and internationally.
We work with:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/business-and-partnerships/expert-solutions/corporate-partnerships:
We work with large organisations to co-create new knowledge, develop talent and drive innovation.
We want to deliver great value in many different ways to your organisation.
By working in partnership with us you can:
Each of our Corporate Partners has a dedicated Partnership Manager who provides tailored support.
The partnership manager supports your organisation by:
We enjoy a wide range of partnerships with a range of different organisations including:
From Sycamore Gap and Hadrian's Wall to research and engagement across the UK, discover how we're working with the National Trust to bring people and heritage together.
Since 2015, Newcastle has been one of Siemens’ strategic Principal Partner Universities, who are part of Siemens’ co-ordinated programme of academic engagement.
From inviting the public to explore the history of space operations to improving the air quality of the future, find out how we’re working with the Royal Air Force.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/business-and-partnerships/expert-solutions/facilities-and-equipment:
Resources for both industrial and academic research, testing and analysis.
Get the best results for your analysis needs in the fields of materials, manufacturing, life sciences, and more.
Our specialist laboratories house sophisticated, expertly-maintained equipment, combined with talented and highly experienced staff.
Microscopic imaging solutions.
Analysis of genomics, proteomic and micro array data.
High Throughput Screening for rapid identification of novel targets; Biomarker Analysis.
Nano-scopic and surface imaging solutions specialising in biological samples.
Nano-scopic and surface imaging solutions specialising in material samples.
Multiparametric analysis of cell populations.
Single-cell sequencing, medium-scale genomic & transcriptomic analysis.
Specialist facility for containment level 3 pathogen research.
Determine the molecular mass, elemental composition, and structure of a range of chemical compounds.
Detailed information about molecular structure, also used to determine sample purity and monitor dynamic processes or chemical reactions.
Fluorescence, bioluminescence, MRI, CT & PET imaging.
Biological Mass Spectrometry, Protein production, purification and analysis, Molecular Biophysics.
Attenuated Total Reflection Fourier Transform Infrared spectroscopy (ATR-FTIR), Ultraviolet-Visible spectroscopy (UV-VIS), Fluorescence spectroscopy and Carbon, Hydrogen, Nitrogen and Sulfur elemental analysis (CHNS Elemental Analysis).
Underpins techniques that can be used to characterise and investigate the properties of crystalline materials in the solid state.
Provides insight into the behaviour of materials, enabling the understanding of structure-function relationships.
From molecular to field, farm and landscape scale, you can work with us at our two farms.
The vessel is fully equipped to support a broad range of maritime research in both science and engineering.
A ‘living laboratory’, underpinning research into Sustainable Drainage Systems (SuDs) and green Infrastructure approaches.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/business-and-partnerships/expert-solutions/ktp:
Improve your organisation's competitiveness and productivity through funded partnerships with us.
KTPs are collaborative projects between a university, a UK business and a graduate.
Projects last between 12 and 36 months and are part-funded by UKRI through Innovate UK .
The aim of a KTP is to generate profit for your business, while presenting an academic challenge.
The Associate works full-time at your business premises and is supervised by an academic half a day a week .
Knowledge transfer is key to KTP, setting it apart from traditional consultancy.
Through collaboration, we create new capabilities for your business.
We then transfer that knowledge to your business for long-term profit generation.
If you have an innovative idea but lack the in-house expertise to develop it.
A KTP will support you to:
Academic colleagues can learn more through the University internal site (requires password).
Our Principal Partner Status with the global technology giant supports research, innovation, students and more.
Explore how our School of Computing has been part of KTPs with Clue Computing Company and Raindata
Your contribution:
Costs cover:
Our portfolio covers many industries, cultural organisations, social enterprises and academic disciplines.
We have a track record of success having delivered over 60 projects in the past 6 years.
We have a dedicated KTP Unit providing expert support.
This makes us well positioned to increase the competitiveness of your business.
We will:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/business-and-partnerships/expert-solutions/clinical:
We are committed to help people live longer, healthier, happier lives.
Clinical research with NHS, charity and industry partners is key.
Our University can trace its origins back to the School of Medicine and Surgery, established in 1834.
Today we are a world leader in a wide range of health and care research programmes.
This includes drug discovery, rare diseases, ageing and multimorbidity and more.
Your clinical research ambitions could be supported by a range of colleagues from:
NHIP brings together the region's leading research, NHS and city partners to address health inequalities.
The partnership is formed by:
Learn more about Newcastle Health Research Partners
Together with Newcastle-upon-Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, we have established the Newcastle Joint Research Office (NJRO).
It is your gateway to a network of expertise enabling life-changing clinical and lab research.
The team can support you in the development, delivery and implementation of world-class, clinical, translational and experimental research through:
Through the NJRO, you can access more nationally-accredited specialist services than any other centre in the country.
The expertise of the NJRO team includes:
Strong relationships with:
Site partnerships:
collaborations with SMEs:
collaborative working with Clinithink to improve patient recruitment to clinical trials
We’ve been exploring new ways to design and analyse rare disease trials that result in good-quality evidence without needing as many participants.
The unit can support you with the design, development, delivery and analysis of high quality clinical trials and studies.
Projects could include:
The unit achieved full registration as a UKCRC unit in 2007 - registration number 22.
Part of the Faculty of Medical Sciences, the institute works to move research from "bench to bedside."
Our work in human illness and disease identifies new areas for mechanistic study and challenges for healthcare delivery.
Knowledge gained in laboratories is transformed into new diagnostic tests and treatments.
The Clinical Research MClinRes, PGDip, and PGCert allow you to study clinical research in the context of your workplace .
Our courses are suitable for any clinical research topic, including:
Our programmes encourage you to plan, conduct, analyse and write up clinical research .
You'll do this in the context of your professional role.
You'll learn and develop skills in clinical research in your area of expertise.
This is the most valuable way of consolidating the theory you'll learn on the course.
Driven by research goals and a patient-centred approach, we improve therapy options, outcomes, and quality of life for people with a rare disease.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/work-with-us/procurement:
We make sure the University obtains value for money for the works, goods and services it requires.
Find out how you can work with the University.
Tender opportunities for Newcastle University are advertised on our e-tendering system.
Find out how easy it is to submit an invoice to the University.
Find out how we ensure our procurement activity is sustainable.
Everything you need to support your work with Newcastle University.
Find out how to contact or get directions to Procurement Services.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/work-with-us/procurement/working:
We obtain value for money for the works, goods and services the University requires.
The Procurement Services team works with Faculties, Schools and Professional Services functions at the University.
This ensures we procure responsibly and achieve best value for money.
We ensure all procurement is undertaken according to the following principles:
We purchase works, goods and services in a manner that shows we:
Newcastle University holds Disability Confident Level 2 Employer status and we encourage our partners and suppliers to sign up to the Disability Confident scheme.
Spend areas include:
Remit includes:
Remit includes the purchase of the following services:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/work-with-us/procurement/tender:
Newcastle University is no longer classed as a 'contracting authority' for the purposes of UK Public Contracts Regulations 2015.
Advertisement of contracts in Find a Tender and Contracts Finder is at the sole discretion of the University.
The University reserves its right to adapt or step outside of the procedures in the procurement legislation as the University considers necessary.
The procedure that we wish to follow for any individual procurement will be explained in the relevant tender documentation.
The University makes use of various framework/consortia agreements to identify suppliers for the required goods and services, particularly for high value purchases.
Examples of these consortia include:
Suppliers are also encouraged to register on the University’s Proactis ProContract e-tendering portal to be informed on our procurement activities, advertised publicly.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/work-with-us/procurement/invoice:
We make it easy for you to submit an invoice to the University.
You will require a purchase order number to accompany all invoices addressed to Newcastle University.
Suppliers are advised that the University operates a 'no purchase order, no pay' policy.
Suppliers should not commence performance of services and/or supply of goods and/or undertaking of any works, unless in receipt of an official Newcastle University Purchase Order.
The purchase order states a 10 digit University Purchase Order number.
This begins with 42.
Send all invoices to:
Newcastle University PO BOX 268 Sheffield S98 1QY
This address is for invoices only and should not be used as a delivery address for goods ordered or invoice enquiries.
You could also send this as an attachment via email to: nu-invoices@parseq.com
Please note we can't accept zip files.
We will pay you as per the contract terms or within 30 days of receipt of a correctly submitted invoice.
For invoice and payment queries, please contact:
Accounts Payable: accounts.payable@ncl.ac.uk
Payments: payments@ncl.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/work-with-us/procurement/sustainable:
We want to make sure our procurement activity is sustainable.
Our suppliers should create a sustainability action plan for their business while working with us.
Practicing sustainable procurement contributes to the University’s Vision and Strategy and Climate Action Plan.
The University policy commits us to realise positive sustainability impacts and manage negative sustainability impacts.
We request that suppliers complete the NETpositive Supplier Engagement Tool.
The tool helps suppliers to create a simple, free sustainability action plan for their business.
We use this tool with awarded suppliers to support our sustainable procurement activity.
It also informs ongoing contract management discussions.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/work-with-us/procurement/contact:
Postal address:
Procurement 4th Floor Kings Gate House Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 7RU
Tel: +44 (0) 191 208 6220 Email: procurement@ncl.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/business-and-partnerships:
We have a wide variety of ways that we can work with your business.
We will work with you to innovate, overcome challenges and grow your business.
Every relationship we have is unique.
Whether you're a global corporate or a small to medium-sized enterprise starting out, we're on hand to help.
Our partners are an essential part of our community.
We're proud that many relationships with businesses have grown into long-term strategic partnerships.
Take a look at the many different ways you can work with our University.
Develop skills, grow your business and drive innovation with our apprenticeship programmes.
Innovation support for North East businesses from North East universities.
By working together and licensing our technologies to you, we can make a difference to lives, organisations and products around the world.
Newcastle has been selected as one of two sites in the UK to evaluate the safety and functionality of Neuralink's N1 implant.
'Mapping the Course,' examines the evolution of regional education partnerships in the UK, specifically highlighting the experiences of Newcastle University and the North East of England.
Great British Chemicals is a new major research centre set to position the UK as a global leader in clean technology.
A new project is set to unlock the potential of microgrid sites across the region to support decarbonisation and boost energy resilience.
UNICEF Innocenti and Open Lab partner to reimagine child and youth-centred civic-tech in the digital age.
A new project to strengthen collaboration between universities and businesses and others to drive growth and create jobs in North East England has received major funding from the UK Government.
Biotechnology and AI spearhead a consecutive year of £40M+ investment in companies commercialising research.
Research by the Met Office and Newcastle University shows power outage predictions in windstorms improved when accounting for multi-hazard effects.
New analysis reveals critical role university graduates play in driving growth in the North East of England, including by starting their own businesses.
A collaboration between Newcastle University and New College Durham has launched a new skills programme for the regional battery industry.
Supported by Innovate UK, the partnership will investigate the potential to integrate genetic barcoding into dye manufacturing.
Professor Jane Robinson, Pro-Vice-Chancellor Engagement and Place at Newcastle University, has been appointed Chair of CBI’s North East Council.
Dr Mahfuz Kamal has been awarded an Enterprise Fellowship by the Royal Academy of Engineering to support him as CEO of University spin-out company RecoVolt.
Northern Accelerator, a collaboration between universities across the North East to support spin-out companies, won the prestigious Place-Based Knowledge Exchange (KE) Initiative of the Year.
Commercial strategy, business development and capital raising experience will lead the spin out's next phase of growth.
Newcastle University has won a Connect + Develop Partner Excellence award from Procter and Gamble Research and Development.
Roche Diagnostics UK and Ireland, Newcastle University and The Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust will work together on medical diagnostics.
North East England’s five universities to strengthen collaboration to achieve greater impact and influence.
Heritage science experts at Newcastle University have received £1M in new funding to unlock the potential of existing heritage collections.
A revolutionary test for low-risk skin cancer has received a UKCA product mark, paving the way for its introduction to the NHS.
A successful entrepreneur and Newcastle University alumnus is supporting budding business owners of the future with a £1.25m personal donation to create a new academy.
Working with the Met Office, we have developed new guidance and tools that could significantly improve the prediction of life-threatening flash flooding.
Dr Anastassia Kostenko will join the early-career scheme for fast-track training in technology transfer.
Skills investment which will create a new generation of skilled local workers in electric vehicle (EV) and battery technology.
A groundbreaking ceremony has marked the start of work on the £500 million Health Innovation Neighbourhood, which will promote longer, healthier lives.
The Innovate UK funding brings together Newcastle University spin out, GitLife Biotech with Aberdeen biotech company, NCIMB Ltd.
Professor Mike Capaldi, Dean of Innovation and Business at Newcastle University, has been announced as the new Chair of DER-IC, a UK-wide Power Electronics, Machines and Drives (PEMD) manufacturing network.
Working with UNDO, new research shows spreading finely crushed silicate rock on agricultural land enhances yields as well as sequestering carbon dioxide.
Jetbio, a new spinout company, will be targeting the groundbreaking technique at drug discovery, tissue engineering and regenerative medicine.
Scientists have shown that storing your eggs on the worktop rather than in the fridge - and how you cook them - matters when it comes to preserving vitamin D, known as the ‘sunshine vitamin’.
Newcastle University has been announced as the lead of a new national artificial intelligence (AI) hub that will deliver next-generation innovations and technologies via edge computing.
Despite efforts to mitigate the effects of climate change, companies are not set up for success, due to conflicting national and sectorial targets and differing availability of abatement options.
Dr Pavlina Theodosiou has been awarded an Enterprise Fellowship by the Royal Academy of Engineering to support her as a CEO of University spin-out company METzero.
The most extensive clinical study into liver cirrhosis ever conducted worldwide has been announced.
Investments across life sciences, sustainable engineering and digital tech spin-outs have totalled over £40m in 2023.
Created from research discoveries, the University’s 37 active spin-out companies now employ more than 300 people.
A new degree apprenticeship from Newcastle University will help businesses to close the electrification skills gap.
Developed with industrial partners, the programme will receive
The study confirms the favourable safety and tolerability profile of fractalkine blocker KAND567 in myocardial infarction patients.
Arup and Newcastle University renew their strategic partnership with a new MoU, focusing on research, innovation, and sustainable development
The funding will be used to scale up production capacity at its facility in the North East of England, deliver on ambitious growth plans to establish a global sales footprint, and bolster R&D capabilities.
Newcastle University engineer inventors have worked with waste management experts Biffa to test a new, reversible glue.
The company creation partnership has secured an additional £4.3m to expand support spin-outs.
Sterling Pharma Solutions has announced that it has completed the acquisition of Newcastle University spin-out company, NewChem Technologies.
A new study will determine the feasibility of an autonomous, ‘driverless’ public transport system between Seaton Delaval Station and the Northumbria Specialist Emergency Care Hospital in Cramlington.
The InTUNE partnership has been launched to deliver two business support programmes which aim to strengthen the North East economy.
Newcastle University will lead a new £5m research initiative to help boost UK economic growth and address regional needs.
A new joint project has been funded to help replace magnet-powered electric drives with more sustainable zero-magnet drives for electric vehicles (EVs).
The pioneering life science start-up raises funding to commercialise its unique protein technology.
The new national hub will provide expertise, innovative modelling and engagement to support net zero transport networks.
The Faraday Battery Challenge (FBC) has appointed Newcastle University to receive £1.3m in funding to support the North East’s battery manufacturing and innovation sector and skills development.
Newcastle University ‘spin out’ company ESP Diagnostics Ltd.
has been selected to join Pioneer Group’s Biomedical Catalyst Neurotech Accelerator Programme.
Virtual reality (VR) simulation training company VRAI has moved to a new base on Newcastle Helix in The Catalyst.
Newcastle University and RWE’s Sofia have signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) to support the growth of a skilled offshore wind workforce, support the sector’s expansion and drive innovation.
The partnership will launch with two data analytics projects, one focused on federated machine learning and another advancing technologies for smart data streaming.
Newcastle University’s apprenticeships have been rated ‘Good’ across the board by Ofsted.
Newcastle University is leading a ground-breaking £4.17m Digital Health Hub for the North East and North Cumbria.
Newcastle University and Opera North have announced a new three-year collaboration.
The spin-out is developing a novel method of DNA synthesis and will join Pioneer Group's Launch Venture Building programme.
A Newcastle based start-up that has worked with the Arrow innovation scheme has raised over £1.85 million of funding to help its quest to save more lives through better testing for prostate cancer.
Newcastle University joins a new university network to facilitate better connections across the data science/AI landscape
Newcastle University and the Royal Society of Arts have been named as new hosts of the Creative Industries Policy and Evidence Centre.
A new research partnership between Newcastle University Singapore and VFlowTech hopes to improve the performance, safety, and economics of using batteries for energy storage.
Locating at the Newcastle Helix innovation district affords quick and easy links with Newcastle University and the National Innovation Centre for Data
Eighteen projects aimed at boosting the space sector across the UK are to receive funding from the UK Space Agency with two being led by Newcastle University.
Newcastle University experts and industry partners are leading the way in helping reduce emissions from the maritime sector.
A new report highlights how the North East’s universities are working together to drive forward the Levelling Up agenda and grow the region’s economy.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/business-and-partnerships/expert-solutions/arrow:
Access Arrow for real results for your regional business
Arrow brings business and academic research together to help businesses advance and to help ideas flourish like never before.
Arrow can help regional businesses overcome hurdles to innovation by connecting them with the right expertise and facilities from across four leading North East universities.
Durham University, Newcastle University, Northumbria University and the University of Sunderland.
Businesses from County Durham, North Tyneside, Newcastle and Northumberland are eligible for these short-term innovation projects with support that can include:
More than 150 SMEs in the North East are seeing great results after engaging with Arrow.
143 new jobs have been created so far – invigorating careers and bringing talent to our region.
53 new products and services have been developed, boosting private investment by £2.6m and increasing business turnover by £16.9m.
Arrow innovation projects are helping to speed up processes and break down barriers to success.
There is no cost to your business for eligible projects, as Arrow is part-funded by the UK Government through the UK Shared Prosperity Fund through Durham County Council and North of Tyne Combined Authority (now administered by the North East Combined Authority) as the leads in their respective areas.
Arrow is helping to deliver success for business – and there are big benefits for academics too.
If you work at Newcastle University, Durham University, the University of Sunderland or
Northumbria University, put your expertise to work as part of an Arrow innovation project.
An Arrow Innovation Associate is allocated to a project and handles most of the research and experimentation, so demands on your time are managed.
In return, you’ll partner with a curious, inventive and agile business to take on challenges that can help reshape our world.
Grow your research profile and professional reputation when you actively contribute into an Arrow innovation project.
Working with Arrow allowed the company to identify a first commercial target for their device and provided access to expertise on how to validate the prototype.
Arrow provided hydroponic vertical farming SME FYTO Ltd with specialist advice to take their business further.
Read on to find out more.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/business-and-partnerships/expert-solutions/degree-apprenticeships:
Our structured Higher and Degree Apprenticeships combine workplace training with study.
We tailor our programmes to specific job roles.
This enables employees to develop the skills and knowledge they need to progress in an existing role or transition into a new one.
Higher and Degree Apprenticeships allow you to invest in your staff.
They help grow talent in your workforce that’s tailored to your business needs.
We welcome enquiries from employers, individual organisations, groups or industry bodies interested in working with us.
We currently offer:
Develop skills, knowledge and behaviours to lead teams and projects effectively.
Become empowered to influence and drive change within your organisation.
Our apprenticeship programme helps IT professionals enhance their data analysis skills
Coach colleagues towards personal and professional success.
Designed for your team members to adopt strategic roles.
Ensure your organisation has the skills and expertise needed to drive critical engineering innovation in electrification and advanced manufacturing.
Discover how you can upskill your workforce, grow your business and drive innovation with our apprenticeship programmes.
Our apprenticeship provision has been rated good by Ofsted.
It was highlighted that our apprenticeships help meet a skills gap in the North East.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/business-and-partnerships/expert-solutions/licensing:
Helping you to access innovative new technologies.
We want our discoveries to make a positive difference to our world.
We recognise that sometimes other organisations are best placed to take our technology forward.
This is where you can license our intellectual property (IP).
Our Business Development Managers are experienced, discrete professionals.
They can work with you to explore and understand our IP.
Together we can develop agreements for the IP to be used.
We worked with global consumer products giant P&G to harness the power of nature to innovate a laundry product.
The market for laundry detergents, fabric conditioners and fabric care is huge.
More consumers want excellent cleaning results from washing at lower temperatures.
Our marine biology researchers discovered an enzyme that is used by bacteria to unstick themselves from seaweed.
We worked with P&G to show that the enzyme could be used to develop laundry detergents that work efficiently at low temperatures.
Today, the enzyme is used across the Ariel product range.
The Newcastle University In-Part Portal connects you to our intellectual property.
The system helps you to explore licensing options and connect with our business development managers.
If you have any problems accessing the system, please let us know - business@newcastle.ac.uk - and we will send the information to you directly.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/business-and-partnerships/contact-us:
Don't worry if you aren't sure where to start.
We will connect you to the right colleague to help.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/work-with-us/health-social-challenges:
We make a positive contribution to society.
Newcastle University exists for the public benefit to advance education, learning and research.
We make positive contributions to the economy, health and wellbeing and society of the places in which we operate.
We are an effective partner for local government, the NHS and the voluntary, community and social enterprise sector.
Public engagement and research communication maximises knowledge exchange between the University and society.
They can enrich our work with new ideas and perspectives.
The North East of England has a long history of social justice campaigning.
The University shares in this tradition.
We collaborate to co-design solutions to social justice challenges facing our communities.
We do this through our diverse relationships with voluntary and community groups.
We also have a social justice advisory group.
Our students promote social justice through projects such as North East Solidarity and Teaching (N.E.S.T).
It's a Newcastle University Students Union (NUSU) student-run volunteer project (managed by Go Volunteer).
It offers, among other things, free English lessons to the refugee community in the region.
Our staff ensure public and patients get involved and engaged with our world leading research from a wide range of disciplines.
They achieve this by working very closely with:
We are visibly leading in the theme of ageing.
We take a cross disciplinary approach to the challenge of how we live better for longer.
Our citizen engagement programme VOICE aims to capture the public’s vast experience and ideas about research, innovation and policy developments that affect their lives.
We want to be a good neighbour to communities within Newcastle and Gateshead.
We can achieve this through student volunteering.
We can also build on the great work that takes place in partnership with our Students’ Union.
This encourages students to be respectful of permanent residents and contribute positively to the communities in which they live.
We have been committed to improving access for, and supporting, students from widening participation backgrounds for more than 20 years.
Find out more about our PARTNERS programme .
Explore more of our videos addressing health and social challenges:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/work-with-us/creative-collaborations:
We develop mutually beneficial and sustainable partnerships with cultural organisations.
We contribute to the vibrancy and cultural richness of our region.
We do this by applying our expertise in creative arts practice, culture and heritage.
Our Institute for Creative Arts Practice leads our collaborations, supported by our Humanities Research Institute.
Together they foster interdisciplinary initiatives.
These collaborations develop mutually beneficial and sustainable partnerships with cultural organisations.
Our global research and education strength in culture and creative arts has local support.
This is through exemplar collaborations with partners from:
'Wor Culture' is a forum facilitated by Newcastle University for discussing issues relating to the culture and creative sectors.
With topics proposed by the sector, the aim is to contribute to shaping the future of these sectors in the North East.
Our strategic and collaborative relationships deliver real benefits to cultural and creative industries.
Together we can develop:
We create economic and cultural value when organisations, artists, students and academics collaborate.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/alumni:
A place to stay connected to your university for inspiration, professional development and learning.
You are part of a thriving global alumni network of individuals.
They each share your passion for Newcastle, your experience of being a student and your aspirations as a graduate.
This exclusive network offers you access to a wealth of professional and personal development opportunities and connections throughout your life.
Make the most of your community by attending our events and keeping up with our regular news and communications.
You can also take advantage of the benefits and resources on offer to you as a Newcastle graduate.
Graduation doesn’t mean the end of your connection with Newcastle University.
We're here to help you take your next steps, whatever they may be.
Stay connected with each other and your University after you graduate.
Wherever you are in your career, your University community can help you reach your full potential.
Be inspired by events and resources from world-leading researchers and alumni sector leaders.
Your support can inspire future students, future research and a future of positive change in our city and around the world.
To celebrate World Entrepreneurs Day (21 August), we’re spotlighting just some of the start-up superstars to come from Newcastle University.
This World Photography Day (19 August), we’d like to celebrate a donation from alumna Dame Teresa Graham DBE to set up a student photography prize in memory of her godson, Anthony Hall.
Hugh Addison (MEng Mechanical Engineering, 2014) and Alex Addison (LLB Law, 2017) are hoping to raise £10,000 for the Royal Agricultural Benevolent Institute (RABI) through their extreme endurance challenge this September.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/alumni/connect:
Keep in touch with your alumni community and Newcastle University.
You are one of us.
You are part of a 270,000-strong community of Newcastle alumni around the world, with Newcastle graduates based in over 180 countries.
We are here to help you stay connected with each other and your University after you graduate, and help you reconnect with former classmates and friends from years gone by.
We can also help you forge new personal and professional connections with people living near you or working in a similar sector – with one shared experience of being from Newcastle University.
Societies and sports clubs aren’t just for your student days.
We have a whole host of alumni networks that are free to join, meaning you can meet like-minded graduates near you.
Mark your upcoming graduation anniversary (or graduversary as we like to call them!) by organising a class reunion.
Discover how we can help you plan an unforgettable event.
Have you lost touch with former friends from your university days?
We can help you reconnect: whether it be with former course mates, housemates or teammates from a club or society.
Meet just some of your fellow Newcastle graduates who are making a difference in their field – including inventors, BAFTA winners and more.
Read the latest news and interviews from your fellow alumni and join us in celebrating their achievements.
All alumni are entitled to be members of Convocation and to attend the annual meeting
We’re saddened to announce the recent deaths of dear alumni and colleagues.
You can view the latest obituaries and inform us of an alumni death here.
Learn how you can inspire others and give back to your university.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/alumni/develop:
Career progression and support from your alumni community.
With a global community of 270,000 alumni and a Careers Service on-hand, Newcastle University is ready to help you develop your career.
Whether you’re looking to enter the workplace for the first time as a new graduate, be your own boss and launch a business, change your career or take the next step up the career ladder, we can help you get to where you want to be.
For the first three years after you graduate, you can access Newcastle University’s Careers Service to get expert advice on kickstarting your career and help to find your first role.
Enlist the help of our award-winning START UP team to realise your dreams of launching your own business or freelance career.
This section includes guidance on funding, skills development and finding a mentor.
As a member of our alumni community, you can benefit from exclusive discounts and scholarships to support your learning journey.
Catch up on the latest two events below or view our full Develop playlist .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/alumni/discover:
Continue to make use of our facilities and enjoy exclusive discounts.
As a Newcastle University graduate, you can continue to access our latest research and lifestyle advice from leading experts through our exclusive events, resources and communications.
Use these to expand your knowledge and gain personal development insights from our world-leading academics.
You can also enjoy access to a range of facilities.
This includes our three libraries, Sport and Fitness Centre and Students' Union.
No matter when you graduated, you can continue to benefit from access to our leading facilities, including the Sport and Fitness Centre, libraries and Students’ Union.
Your opportunities to learn with Newcastle University don't end with your degree.
Wherever you are in the world, as a member of our alumni network, you can carry on building your knowledge.
Take advantage of a range of discounts exclusively available to Newcastle University alumni.
Public lectures at Newcastle University are free and open to all.
They aim to offer a programme that will inform, stimulate, entertain, and excite.
Find out how to access your official degree documents or request a character reference from the university
Catch up on the latest two events below or view our full Discover playlist .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/alumni/support:
Nurture lifelong connections and inspire future generations of Newcastle alumni.
Whether it's through volunteering, mentoring or making a donation, your support can inspire future students, future research and a future of positive change in our city and around the world.
Find out how you can support our current students, your fellow alumni, and your university through volunteering.
Make a donation today to support future students, future research and a future of positive change in our city and around the world.
Please help us warmly say ‘Howay in’ to students this September by donating to the Newcastle University Student Fund today.
Your donations will give every student the full Newcastle experience.
This academic year, around 500 alumni volunteers from 30 countries have given back to their university community, whether that be supporting students on campus or our global community of Newcastle University graduates.
We were thrilled to recently welcome Dr Gillian Cannon to campus from the US to finalise plans for her family’s generous $1 million endowment to Newcastle University, supporting future generations of students and researchers.
A generous gift from long-standing supporters, the Harry and Alice Stillman Foundation will fund an 18-month project with the Royal Geographical Society to create the most comprehensive view of the life and work of North East born explorer Gertrude Bell.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/alumni/news:
Recent graduates Luis Schmidt, Sam Alexander and Keane Baldwin have been given a helping hand in making their mark on the music industry from the Dr Jane Nolan Innovation and Enterprise Award.
To celebrate 75 years of Formula One, and the release of F1 the Movie in cinemas, we are spotlighting just some of the Newcastle University graduates making a mark in motorsports.
Class of 2019 graduate Deema Khunda fell back in love with chess when laboratories closed in lockdown, having first learned the game as a child growing up in Baghdad.
Just four short years after attending her first competition, Deema competed in BBC Two’s Chess Masters: The Endgame at the start of 2025!
Class of 2018 medical graduate William Rayfet Hunter is celebrating being one of six authors shortlisted for the Waterstones Debut Fiction Prize 2025.
We recently caught up with William to find out more about their journey from junior doctor to winning writer.
Huge congratulations to Newcastle graduate Sam Wightman (MPlan Planning, 2024), who has won RTPI’s North East Young Planner of the Year award.
With graduation celebrations in full swing on campus, we caught up with Class of 1986 graduate Nickie Kavanagh (née Bell) and her son Rory to hear how the student experience in Newcastle has changed over the past four decades.
Meet Newcastle graduate Olivia Blackham (BA English Literature, 2021).
After leaving university, she embarked on an apprenticeship with Wakefield Council to become a learning and development practitioner.
oo office, founded by a trio of Newcastle University Architecture graduates, has been announced as the winner of the 2025 Pride Float design competition.
Dr Irene Ighodaro, who graduated from Newcastle Medical School in 1944, will be the first woman of African or Asian descent to be recognised by a plaque in Newcastle.
The Mark Scrimshaw Memorial Fund will provide two Newcastle University students from areas of hardship with a three-year scholarship to empower them to pursue a degree in the arts.
Held annually on 23 June, International Women in Engineering Day raises the profile of women in engineering – a traditionally male-dominated sector – and encourages more people, especially young women, to consider a career in engineering.
In celebration of World Music Day, we caught up with alumnus Dr Graeme Lawson (GDHons Archaeology and Music, 1974) to hear about his research into the origins of music as we know it through what has been left behind.
14 Newcastle University graduates and colleagues have been named in King Charles III’s 2025 Birthday Honours list, acknowledging their dedication and success in their respective fields.
Congratulations all!
All donations made to the Newcastle University Student Fund this summer will be match-funded, so alumni and supporters can make double the difference to students missing out on what makes belonging to Newcastle so special.
Michael Slavin (BA Hons Politics, 2008) is returning to campus 20 years after first joining Newcastle University to lead Northern Stage in an exciting new chapter.
Congratulations to the three Newcastle University graduates who have recently been elected to the Fellowship of the Royal Society, the UK’s national academy of sciences.
Stu Brew, the student-run microbrewery based at Newcastle University, has recently celebrated its 10th birthday.
In this interview, founding member and alumna Zelda Mendelowitz takes us back to where it all began.
Over the past three decades, Newcastle University has welcomed hundreds of students from over the pond to study on our campus and enjoy the Newcastle experience.
Hear from Class of 1965 alumnus and founder of Chrysalis Records, Terry Ellis, as he shares the big changes he has witnessed in the music industry throughout his career.
Happy Volunteers’ Week!
We’d like to take this opportunity to shout from the rooftops about the amazing alumni who have volunteered their time and expertise this year to make a difference.
In this blog, Newcastle University alumnae Dr Victoria Pagan and Dr Emily Yarrow share their thoughts on the recent Blue Origin  NS-31 mission and consequent media fall out.
Stroll down memory lane to revisit some of the biggest and best concerts that our alumni have enjoyed over the past 60 years
Last month, we were thrilled to welcome Dr Gillian Cannon to campus from the US to finalise plans for her family’s generous $1 million endowment to Newcastle University, supporting future generations of students and researchers.
When the world was shut down in March 2020, Dr Rishab Kapoor (MRes Immunology, 2013; PhD, 2018) stepped up.
Using the knowledge gained from his studies at Newcastle University, Rishab led India’s first COVID-19 testing laboratory to become one of the fastest globally.
Newcastle University is delighted to announce a new partnership with the University of Delaware, welcoming students from the prestigious World Scholars programme to our campus from September 2025.
This Dementia Action Week (19 – 25 May 2025), we spoke to Newcastle alumna Margaret Hence about her experience of caring and learning from people with dementia.
Two of the three winners of the North East Emerging Artist Award 2024 hailed from Newcastle University’s School of Fine Art.
Ahead of their winners’ showcase at Seaton Delaval Hall this September, we caught up with Lucy Waters and Phoebe Scott to dive into their art practice and how it was shaped on campus.
During NCL in Action 2025, our community have united in volunteering opportunities, activities and events to explore the impact AI and technology is having on our world and upskill themselves to prepare for the future.
Kinner Sacchdev (MSc Industrial Biotechnology, 2006) is transforming the way educators, creators and organisations deliver their training courses and grow their student base with his award-winning AI-powered platform, Knorish.
Alumni donation will support the next generation of students at Newcastle University Malaysia (NUMed) and Newcastle University in Singapore (NUiS)
Mark Davis (BA Social Studies, 2000) recently received the Outstanding Contribution to Environmental Justice and Sustainability award for his pioneering work in green finance.
This World Art Day, we’re celebrating artist, writer and curator Helen Shaddock (MFA, 2016) and her digital zine artED, which seeks to make sense of the world through the lens of neurodiversity and eating distress.
Fiona Moss (English Language and Literature, 2013) received the Outstanding Social and Civic Contribution award for her work with the Natalie Kate Moss Trust (NKMT), a charity dedicated to advancing research into haemorrhagic strokes and promoting public awareness around stroke prevention and blood pressure management.
Huge congratulations to Newcastle University alumnus Barry Solaiman, who has won the Science and Sustainability Award at this year’s British Council Study UK Alumni Awards in Qatar.
Freddie Young, a current PhD student in Mechanical Engineering and recipient of the Tony Trapp PhD Studentship, is revolutionising research in hydrogen combustion.
On Sunday 16 March, Newcastle United Football Club succeeded in what, for generations of fans, was unthinkable.
They beat rivals Liverpool 2-1 at Wembley to lift the Carabao Cup – the club’s first domestic trophy in 70 years – and set the region alight.
Members of our alumni community recently sat in the hot seat for quick-fire interviews with current Global PR students on campus.
Take a walk with us down memory lane as we explore how some of the most popular suburbs with Newcastle students have changed over the decades.
The UK has been identified as potentially the least productive country in Europe, which may be surprising to those entrenched in its overworked and exhausted workforce.
To improve work-life balance and employee morale, campaigners are currently pushing for a 4-day week, with hopes this will then lead to more productivity.
Members of our alumni community are giving back to current students by creating a supportive network for our Black and other Global Majority engineers of the future.
Huge congratulations to alumnus Peter Straughan (BA English, 1994) who won the Oscar for Best Adapted Screenplay for the film Conclave at the 97th Academy Awards in Los Angeles earlier this month.
With almost 4,000 Newcastle University alumni residing in the United States, a dedicated group of graduates have joined together to develop a new Alumni Network in New England, providing opportunities for alumni to connect and support their alma mater.
With almost 4,000 Newcastle University alumni residing in the United States, a dedicated group of graduates have joined together to develop a new Alumni Network in New York and the tri-state area, providing opportunities for alumni to connect and support their alma mater.
The Women’s Giving Circle, a network of successful alumnae and friends of Newcastle University continues to empower female students.
Women remain underrepresented in certain subject areas, and the Women’s Giving Circle Scholarship plays a vital role in breaking barriers and inspiring young women who aspire to pursue careers in these fields.
In honour of the International Day of Women and Girls in Science 2025, we are proud to highlight the work of Leanne Cullen-Unsworth (Marine Biology, 2000), an interdisciplinary scientist, marine conservation advocate, Charity Co-Founder and CEO of Project Seagrass.
We were delighted to welcome back Avnish Goyal CBE (Accounting and Finance, 1988) and his wife, Anita Goyal MBE, to connect with the students who benefit from the Goyal Foundation Scholarship programme.
18 Newcastle University alumni have been named in King Charles III’s New Year Honours list, recognising their dedication and success in their respective fields.
Our NCL in Action theme of exploring AI's impact on our world continues into 2025.
To showcase the incredible impact of our alumni in the space of AI and modern technology, we are highlighting two exceptional graduates transforming the AI landscape: Dr Jerzy (Jurek) Kozyra (PhD Computer Science, 2017), Founder and CEO of Nanovery, and Dev Koshti (BA Business Management, 2024), Founder of Altus.
As we step into the new year, we’re delighted to showcase the wide range of scholarships we award annually, made possible by the generosity of our donors.
As another year ends, we’re celebrating some of the standout achievements from our community over the past 12 months.
From impactful initiatives to ground-breaking research, our graduates and supporters continue to inspire and create meaningful change worldwide.
In 2024, Tracy and Robert Sinton marked ten years of community fundraising for the University by hosting the ‘Don’t Stop Believing’ ball in memory of their late son, Joseph.
The Future Fund supports vital PhD studentships at our Wolfson Childhood Cancer research centre.
Phoebe Snow, a Biochemistry graduate and current Cancer Studies PhD student at Newcastle University, is making significant strides in childhood cancer research.
Physiological Sciences alumnus and Myeloma patient Peter McCleave raises over £50,000 to fund new research into incurable blood cancer.
Global entrepreneur Rob Wood (MBA, 1992) has joined forces with Newcastle University to help enterprising young people gain the tools, confidence, and support they need to be successful in life and business through the Enterprising Futures Academy.
All your hard work at university has paid off, and you’re now the proud owner of a Newcastle University degree – congratulations!
To help you transition from student to graduate life, we spoke with Class of 2023 alumna Sara Kozakova to get her top tips.
We look back at the life and times of Castle Leazes since its opening in 1968.
In April 2024, we welcomed 15 German and Scandinavian studies graduates back to campus to mark 50 years since they first enrolled at Newcastle University.
We caught up with two members of the group after their visit to find out more about life at Newcastle University in the 1970s, and where life has taken them since they graduated.
We are proud to announce the Newcastle University graduates who have won this year’s Alumni Achievement Awards: Mark Davis (BA Social Studies, 2000), Gabby Jahanshahi-Edlin (BA English Literature, Fine Art Drawing and History of Art, 2010) and Rawaa Qasha (PhD Computer Science, 2017).
As the Summer Olympics in Paris fast approach, we reflect on the achievements of our alumni Olympians and Paralympians over the years.
Looking to the future, we are excited to share the news that a record number of our rowing alumni have been announced to compete in this year's Games.
Having recently elected a new cohort of Sabbatical Officers on campus, we caught up with Class of 1973 alumna turned broadcasting juggernaut Dianne Nelmes to reminisce on her own experience as Students’ Union president.
Alumni who were members of Newcastle University’s Gilbert and Sullivan Society from 1981 – 1992 have been reuniting every two years in Yorkshire for over two decades, with the latest reunion featuring a performance of 'The Zoo' by Sullivan and Rowe.
We caught up with the organisers, Jo and David Hartley, to find out more.
On 18 October, we welcomed 11 Norwegian Newcastle University graduates back to campus to mark 50 years since they first arrived in Newcastle as Engineering and Naval Architecture students.
Next week, a new wave of students will arrive on campus from all around the world ready to start their time at Newcastle University.
Even before they’ve stepped foot in a lecture theatre, lifelong experiences and connections can be made during Freshers’ Week.
And with this year being 60 years since the first Freshers arrived at the University of Newcastle upon Tyne, we thought it apt to delve deeper into the history of this student tradition.
We caught up with modern languages graduate and North East-based business leader Clare Talbot-Jones to find out more about her ambitions for her term as the new Deputy Chair of Convocation.
Uni Halls are where memories are made.
Whether you had the best time and made friends for life or couldn’t wait to move out, you’re sure to have memories that you’ll never forget.
Our alumni community have witnessed monumental changes to the University and city of Newcastle upon Tyne over the past six decades.
Read on to travel through the decades and reminisce on your time at Newcastle (or discover what’s happened since you left!)
13 former members of Newcastle University Sailing Club returned to the North East recently to mark 50 years since they raced together.
The group celebrated at The Grand in Tynemouth and even held a ‘friendly’ team race against current students on Derwent Reservoir!
Zahid's studies have led to a career in Conversion Rate Optimisation (CRO), tracking how people use websites and making improvements to reduce the frustration we all feel when navigating the internet!
We caught up with him to find out what it's like working in this sector.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/alumni/events:
15 results
Join your fellow alumni and friends to cheer on the magpies as they embark on the new season, including a special guest of honour!
Alumni from the School of Dental Sciences are invited to a special event to preview our new dental facilities.
Join us in Shanghai for a special evening of connection and conversation with fellow Newcastle University graduates.
The Belonging in Engineering Network (BEN) invites you to join a key conversation on developing the North East’s Engineering Talent Pipeline.
Join the Newcastle University London Alumni Network for a unique social event - a private guided walking tour through the secret spaces of the City of London.
Join us for brunch to reminisce about your university days and make new connections within your alumni community.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/alumni/contact-us:
Got a query or some news to share?
Get in touch.
Email: advancement@ncl.ac.uk
Telephone: + 44 (0) 191 208 7250
Newcastle University King’s Gate Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 7RU United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/medical-sciences/engage-with-us/mini-medical-school:
Our Mini-Medical School runs every autumn and is open to anyone aged 15 and over.
The programme offers the public the chance to find out about exciting topics.
This includes current research developments at the University.
Previous programmes have covered a range of exciting topics, including:
The Mini Medical School will be held virtually via Microsoft Teams.
Evening lectures will run on Thursdays between 17:00-18:00 on the following dates:
We will also be running an additional Applying to Medicine & Dentistry session on 11 December.
Further details on how to join the online sessions will be sent out once your place has been confirmed.
If you would like to contact the team, please email minimedicalschool@newcastle.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/press/articles/latest/2025/08/charlesharveyaomaward:
Published on: 21 August 2025
Professor Charles Harvey , Professor of Business History and Management, Newcastle University Business School, received the award in recognition of his significant contribution to the interdisciplinary study of management and organisational history.
The prize was established by the Academy’s Management History Division to honour individuals whose scholarship has made a profound and enduring impact on the field of management history and significantly shaped its intellectual development, inspiring a broader vision of its future.
It recognises exemplary work that not only advances historical understanding in the discipline, but also displays methodological rigour, intellectual courage, and sustained scholarly commitment.
The award was presented to Professor Harvey, and his co-author Professor Mairi Maclean from Bath University, at this summer’s AOM Annual Meeting, the world’s foremost gathering of management scholars, with more than 13,000 participants attending from across the globe.
I feel truly honoured that we were selected as recipients of this award.
It is very humbling for the AOM to have recognised all the effort and commitment that it has taken over the past two decades to develop Historical Organization Studies.
Professor Charles Harvey
Professor Harvey, who is also Director of the Centre for Research on Entrepreneurship, Wealth and Philanthropy, said: “I feel truly honoured that we were selected as recipients of this award.
It means a huge amount to both me and my research partner, Mairi Maclean.”
Professor Stewart Robinson, Dean of Newcastle University Business School, said: “This award is richly deserved, and I’m delighted for Charles that his excellence in the field of management history has been recognised in this way.”
The AOM recently highlighted a study by Professors Harvey and Maclean in which they show how an organisation’s past  - in terms of founding ethos, historical practices and key figures – can inform how it navigates its present and future.
With their co-authors, Roy Suddaby , and Diego M.
Coraiola , they take Proctor & Gamble as a case study, looking at its performance from 1930 to 2010, and show how the life of an organisation is not linear but a dynamic set of connections that can help it manage strategic change and motivate staff.
Last updated 21 August 2025 © Newcastle University

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/press/articles/latest/2025/08/handelaward:
Published on: 20 August 2025
Joe, a Leverhulme Trust Early Career Research Fellow in Newcastle University’s music department, won the prize in recognition of his outstanding dissertation The Performance and Reception of Handel’s Music in Revolutionary North America .
The prize was awarded at Handel’s birthplace in Halle, Germany, this summer.
“I have loved Handel’s music since childhood, and this was my first visit to Germany,” said Dr Lockwood.
“So, to receive this award in Halle, as part of a festival which really celebrates Handel and his music, was very special.”
Dr Lockwood wrote the dissertation while studying at the University of Oxford.
It explores how the meaning of Handel’s music changed after it crossed the Atlantic and the American colonies went to war with the British empire.
To receive this award in Halle, as part of a festival which really celebrates Handel and his music, was very special
Dr Joe Lockwood
In his study, Dr Lockwood demonstrates for the first time how intensively the music of George Frideric Handel was used to articulate and reinforce political positions during the conflicts of the American War of Independence,” said Professor Dr.
Wolfgang Hirschmann , President of the Handel Society and Chair of the Jury, in his laudatory speech.
“At the same time, this once again highlights the internationality and, indeed, the global resonance of Handel’s music.”
Greetings and congratulations were given to Dr Lockwood  by Thomas Wünsch , State Secretary in the Ministry of Science, Energy, Climate Protection, and the Environment of the State of Saxony-Anhalt; Prof.
Dr.
Pablo Pirnay-Dummer , Vice-Rector for Research and Teaching at Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg; Prof.
Susanne Voigt-Zimmermann , Dean of the Faculty of Philosophy II at Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg; and Marko Göpel from the Saalesparkasse Foundation , which supports the €2,000 prize.
The award ceremony marked the opening of the International Scholarly Conference “Handel’s Italian Texts and His Librettists,” which brought together scholars from Italy, France, the UK, the Netherlands, Austria, Switzerland, the USA, and Germany.
The conference forms part of a wider annual festival of performances and events celebrating Handel’s music.
Press release adapted with thanks to the Georg Friederich Händel Society and Professor Larry Zazzo
Last updated 22 August 2025 © Newcastle University

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/press/articles/latest/2025/08/angelbiennale:
For the 61st International Art Exhibition – La Biennale di Venezia in 2026, Bugarin + Castle are to represent Scotland, curated by Mount Stuart Trust and commissioned by Scotland + Venice .
The work will be shown from Saturday 9 May to Sunday 22 November 2026.
Bugarin + Castle will draw on queer histories, Scottish archives and Filipino cultural heritage, examining how sound and costume shape social control.
The artists’ interdisciplinary art practice traverses cabaret performance and architectural methodologies, driven by queer and decolonial research.
”The Newcastle Fine Art Department is home to a vibrant community of artists, curators, and art historians among both students and staff,” said Angel.
“Since joining the department, I have really valued their support and encouragement as I have developed and prepared for this opportunity in Venice.
I also look forward to sharing my research and experiences on my return."
Angel is the second person from the University’s respected Fine Art Department to represent Scotland at La Biennale di Venezia .
NUACT Fellow Rachel Maclean represented Scotland at the 57th International Art Exhibition, the Venice Biennale, which ran from 13 May to 26 November 2017, with the major film commission Spite Your Face .
Curated by Alchemy Film and Arts, in partnership with Talbot Rice Gallery and the University of Edinburgh, Maclean’s modern-day, dark Venetian fairytale was presented as a large-scale portrait projection at the altar of the deconsecrated church, Chiesa di Santa Caterina, Cannaregio.
This year, Owen Hopkins, Director of the University’s Farrell Centre, was part of the UK’s curatorial team for 19th International Architecture Exhibition at the biennale.
The exhibition GBR – Geology of Britannic Repair, was a collaboration between a multi-disciplinary team of curators which  focused on the Rift Valley, a geological formation that runs from southeastern Africa through Mozambique, Kenya and Ethiopia, along the Red Sea, through Jordan, Palestine, Israel and Lebanon to southern Turkey.
Since joining the department, I have really valued their support and encouragement as I have developed and prepared for this opportunity in Venice
Angel Cohn Castle
Mount Stuart Trust, based on the Isle of Bute, will curate Burgarin + Castle’s project, working with the artists and a series of partners.
They have presented a renowned Contemporary Visual Arts Programme since 2001 with artists including Alberta Whittle, Abbas Akhavan, Linder, Martin Boyce, Thomas Abercromby, and Ilana Halperin.
The Venice exhibition will return for an exhibition at Mount Stuart on Bute in Summer 2027, before further presentations in Scotland to be announced.
Dunoon Burgh Hall and BUZZCUT also form part of the project network, reflective of the interdisciplinary work of the artists and Scottish cultural sector.
Forma, an arts charity working across the UK and internationally, will provide production support for the film element, building on their previous Scotland + Venice experience working with Alberta Whittle in 2022.
Further roles and touring information will be announced soon as well as the venue for the project in Venice.
The project was chosen to represent Scotland by a panel including Sepake Angiama, Director, Iniva, Norah Campbell, Head of Arts Scotland, British Council, Simon Groom, Director, International & National Partnerships, National Galleries of Scotland, Emma Nicolson, Head of Visual Arts, Creative Scotland and Lucia Pietroiusti, Head of Ecologies, Serpentine.
Bugarin + Castle’s recent interactive film Sore Throat, shot in Edinburgh and Manila, explored colonial monsters and sound in queer Filipino spaces, showing in a solo exhibition at Fruitmarket as well as at Tate Modern and international venues.
Via custom software, gallery audience voices were unknowingly recorded and replayed within the film, implicating them as antagonists in its narrative.
Bugarin + Castle also perform in drag as Hairy Teddy Bear and Pollyfilla, through Pollyanna, a Scottish queer arts company founded by Castle, now in its 10th year.
The artists’ work has been exhibited at leading UK institutions including Tate Modern, ICA: Institute of Contemporary Art, Fruitmarket and City Art Centre.
Internationally, their work has been shown at Microscope Gallery (USA) and Krittinen Gallery (Finland), and will be in upcoming exhibitions at Tromsø Centre for Contemporary Art (Norway), Photographic Centre Peri (Finland), and WHYNoT Space(Philippines).
Individually, they have a wide international practice.
Angel Cohn Castle’s work has been commissioned by BBC Scotland, LUX Scotland and Talbot Rice Gallery, and exhibited at galleries including Kunstmuseum Bonn (Germany) and BALTIC (UK).
As founder of Pollyanna, she has produced exhibitions at Royal Scottish Academy, Stirling Castle and international galleries.
She is currently Lecturer in Fine Art at Newcastle University, and was previously Teaching Fellow in Fine Art at The University of Edinburgh.
Davide Bugarin’s work has been featured at the Malta Biennale (2024) and the Italian Pavilion at the Venice Biennale of Architecture 2025.
He has also participated in a residency at Venice Biennale of Architecture 2023, selected by the Biennale curator.
He was part of the New Architecture Writers programme, contributing to The Architectural Review and The Architects’ Journal .
He has received awards and scholarships from Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA), Worshipful Company of Architects and Burberry.
Bugarin recently completed a research fellowship at The Warburg Institute, who have supported the initial research for this Scotland + Venice project.
Alastair Evans, Chair, Scotland + Venice Partnership , said “ Scotland + Venice 2026 presents a timely opportunity to showcase the diversity, innovation and internationalism of contemporary Scottish art.
This presentation reflects the depth of collaboration, critical engagement and inclusive practice that defines the Programme’s future direction”
Morven Gregor, Curator, Mount Stuart Trust and Sophie Crichton Stuart, Chair of Mount Stuart Trust, who founded the Mount Stuart contemporary visual arts programme in 2001 , said, “ We are excited to curate the work of Bugarin + Castle, extending our shared commitment through the opportunities presented by Scotland + Venice to bring this ambitious work of performance and moving image to life and to reach our audiences on the West Coast of Scotland and internationally.
We look forward to celebrating the return of Scotland to Venice with our communities across Scotland and beyond, and, as ever, recognise the positive impact of working in collaboration with key partners in the cultural sector.
In 2026 Mount Stuart Trust’s Contemporary Visual Arts Programme celebrates 25 years, and we are delighted that part of this special year will be working with Angel Cohn Castle and Davide Bugarin on Scotland + Venice.”
Emma Nicolson, Head of Visual Arts, Creative Scotland , said, “ We are thrilled to support Mount Stuart Trust and Bugarin + Castle as they lead Scotland’s return to Venice with a commission that speaks powerfully to the rich and diverse contemporary art practice that we have in Scotland.
This project is bold, visually compelling and emotionally layered and stands as a testament to the varied and ambitious artistic voices in Scotland, rooted in place, conceptually bold, and internationally relevant.
We are excited to see how this work will evolve in Venice and ripple back across communities and venues throughout Scotland and beyond.
”
Norah Campbell, Head of Arts, British Council Scotland, "The British Council is proud to support Scotland + Venice as it returns to the world stage in 2026.
Angel Cohn Castle and
Davide Bugarin's collaborative project exemplifies how Scottish creativity can spark meaningful global dialogue.
Venice offers a unique opportunity to demonstrate how Scotland's artists are addressing the challenges of our interconnected world, and helping to strengthen the cultural ties that bring nations together."
Sepake Angiama Artistic Director, Iniva, and selection panel member said, “ The jury were impressed by the range of artistic and curatorial vision of the applications made - it made our conversations lively, with so many brilliant and ambitious ideas from artists across Scotland on the table.
However, this proposal was chosen as it not only challenges what it means to represent Scotland in Venice but also recognises the wide and varied work Scottish institutions and artists produce that can speak to international audiences.
Venice is an incredible occasion to present dynamic practice to the world and I am excited to see the final project in 2026 .”
Lucia Pietroiusti, Head of Ecologies, Serpentine and selection panel member said, “ A presentation at Venice by a country is a meeting point of local and international.
It brings situated practices rooted in their environment in dialogue with the wider existential, philosophical, cultural and social questions of our time.
The quality of all proposals was extremely high, and demonstrated the excellence of artistic practice in Scotland.
The range of different visions for this year was also impressive, as were the proposals’ engagement with the most important issues of today.
The successful proposal was selected for the artist’s vision, their energetic approach, their collaborative nature and for the way in which it connects the realities of Scotland and the wider world”
Veronique AA Lapeyre, Director, Scottish Contemporary Art Network , said, “ The return of Scotland + Venice in 2026 marks a renewed celebration and investment in Scottish contemporary art.
SCAN is delighted to see that this important partnership recognises, and further amplifies, the internationally renowned work of Scotland’s artists and organisations that inspires people at home and abroad.
It’s vital that as a country we continue to nurture international partnerships and build an artistic community united around global social concerns and cultural production .”
Press release adapted with thanks to Scotland + Venice
Last updated 26 August 2025 © Newcastle University

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/numed:
Our purpose-built campus, world-class staff, and students are the heart of the Newcastle community in Malaysia.
We deliver high-quality medical and biomedical education.
Our graduates are globally aware but regionally based.
We prepare them for careers that will underpin the health and welfare of society.
Our medical and biomedical sciences training is comparable to Newcastle University's.
It's modified to be relevant to Malaysia.
NUMed Malaysia has one intake per year for its undergraduate programme and two intakes for it foundation programme.
If you're travelling to Johor, Malaysia, from abroad, we'll welcome you at Kuala Lumpur International Airport.
We make sure your journey to campus is safe.
NUMed Malaysia's campus is located in Iskandar Puteri (formerly known as Nusajaya), near the city of Johor Bahru.
We aspire to offer globally acclaimed medical education programs that respond to the evolving needs of the healthcare sector while retaining students of the highest academic excellence.
COMPANY NO.200701034062 (792091-W) MOHE Reg NO.DULN005(J)

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/singapore:
We are shaping the future of science and engineering through powerful connections and innovative research.
Through our partnerships and cutting-edge research facility, we create powerful connections within the region for graduates, business people and politicians.
Our graduates are globally aware problem-solvers, ready to define the future of industry and government.
Our postgraduate students are immersed in a hub for research, collaboration and innovation at Newcastle Research & Innovation Institute (NewRIIS).
Delivered in partnership with the Singapore Institute of Technology (SIT), our undergraduate degree programmes provide world-class education in an international environment.
Research, collaboration and innovation in Singapore.
Find out what it's like to study at Newcastle University in Singapore.
Learn about the ground breaking research we do at Newcastle University in Singapore.
We collaborate with industry on research that has powerful real-world results.
Newcastle University in Singapore hosted a groundbreaking AI and data innovations international conference, paving the way for future collaboration in sustainable infrastructure development
Congratulations to the Class of 2024.
Digital technology experts, legal practitioners and healthcare professionals exchanged best practices about the advances and risks posed by the increasing use of AI and associated technology in integrated healthcare systems at this one-day dialogue session

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/alumni/support/support-us:
We are living in a world of ever-increasing complexity and uncertainty and often feel that challenges far outweigh the solutions.
As one of the UK’s great civic universities, we are crystal clear in our mission to be a force for good through education, through research and through the impact we make.
Our alumni and supporters play a huge role in ensuring our success.
We are founded on a bedrock of philanthropy and donations continue to be a vital source of funding.
We want our University to be as strong as possible for decades to come to face the future with greater resilience, greater freedom to innovate and greater ability to help those most in need of support.
In 2021 we launched the Campaign for Newcastle University, with the aim of inspiring philanthropic support for all aspects of University life.
We are incredibly grateful for the warmth of generosity already offered by our community.
We believe that when we pool together our resources, our ideas and our shared humanity, we can achieve extraordinary results.
Find out how your donation can help ensure equity of access, experience and outcomes for all Newcastle students regardless of their background.
Find out how your support can help discover new solutions to the most pressing problems facing the world today.
Join us in supporting communities at home on a global scale.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/vacancies:
Come and work for an employer that is building a better world.
As one of the top universities in the UK and around the world, Newcastle University is looking for the best talent to drive our mission of advancing knowledge and solving local and global problems .
We’re passionate about Newcastle and the North East and proud to play a leading role in the economic, social and cultural development of the city and wider region .
Hiring and retaining high-calibre people is important to our continued success and communities.
Working at Newcastle University is a fulfilling experience in more ways than one.
No matter the department you work in, you’ll have a positive and measurable impact on the lives of students and local and global communities.
For a rewarding job with an employer that puts our people first, choose Newcastle University .
When you work at Newcastle University, you get access to unrivalled benefits, discounts and schemes.
Our vision and values, community support, world-class facilities and supportive policies make us one of the best employers in the UK to work for.
If you’re relocating to join the university, we can support with the costs of relocation.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/who-we-are/contact/maps:
By plane, train, or automobile – we’ve never been easier to travel to.
Discover how easy, quick, and affordable it is to visit us, and download our PDF campus map so you’re ready to start exploring Newcastle when you arrive.
Our postcode is NE1 7RU if you're using a sat-nav or route planner.
You can download our Campus and City Maps (PDF: 2.1MB), or view the Google Map below.
Newcastle Central Station is on the East Coast Mainline and just a 15 minute walk to campus.
Reach us from London in under 3 hours, and regular direct rail services run from many UK cities.
With a Student Railcard you save 1/3 on train travel instantly, too.
Below are some of the websites you might visit when planning on coming to Newcastle by train:
Newcastle University is connected to the city’s suburbs, airport, the coast, and a range of museums and sight-seeing opportunities by the Tyne and Wear Metro light rail service.
Haymarket is the closest station to the University campus and trains run frequently during the day, starting at around 5.45 and ending at around 23.30.
Travel is quick, inexpensive, and even cheaper with a Student Metro pass.
Visit the Nexus website to find maps of the Metro system and Metro timetables .
Reach us by Megabus or National Express and enjoy a scenic journey that’s fuss-free and wallet-friendly.
Reach us from London or Glasgow for under £10.
Newcastle is well-connected to all the culture, countryside, and nightlife the north east has to offer via our local Tyne and Wear bus service.
For more information visit the Nexus bus website to find bus timetables and bus ticket fares .
Newcastle Airport is located about seven miles north west of University campus and hosts regular flights to domestic and international airports.
Domestic flights are quick and affordable.
The University is connected to the airport by Metro line, and it’s just a cheap, quick, and fuss-free 25 minute journey from the airport to campus.
Buses from the airport entrance run to Newcastle city centre regularly, and you can plan this in advance through the Traveline website .
If you're a foot passenger arriving at the North Shields ferry terminal, there are buses to Newcastle city centre .
The bus journey takes approximately 30 minutes.
The nearest Metro station is Percy Main , about a 20-minute walk from the terminal building.
The Metro journey into the city centre takes 20 minutes.
It’s easy to reach us by car, particularly if you’re travelling along the A1 (M) .
Our postcode is NE1 7RU if you’re using a sat-nav or route planner.
Park and ride is the best option for drivers.
We are unable to offer parking on campus .
However, we do have a limited number of spaces for visitors with mobility issues.
If you have reserved on-campus parking (via a member of staff) or are arriving by taxi, use the entrance on Claremont Road.
The taxi drop-off point is on King's Road.
There are many car parks in walking distance of campus.
The nearest NCP car parks are:
Metro park and ride facilities are available within and around Newcastle city centre.
More information regarding park and ride services can be found on the Newcastle City Council website .
Newcastle’s iconic Tyne Bridge is currently undergoing a programme of restoration and refurbishment.
This may cause some disruption when traveling into the city centre.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/sitemap:
Site Index
Newcastle University, NE1 7RU, United Kingdom, Telephone: (0191) 208 6000 From outside the UK dial +44 191 208 6000.
Last updated 3 March 2025 © Newcastle University

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/foi:
Find out how to make a request for information from Newcastle University.
Also discover what information we already make available to the public.
Find out how to make a request for information, and what is exempt.
Check what information we already make available to the public.
Please use the contact information below if you have any:
Information Governance Officer Executive Office Newcastle University King's Gate Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 7RU
Email us: rec-man@ncl.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/info/accessibility:
Newcastle University is committed to providing a website that is accessible to all users.
Content on our website is designed so that it is easy to find, read, understand, and interact with.
We aim to achieve the recommended government standard for Web Content Accessibility Guidelines and follow general principles of usability, which should help all visitors to our websites.
This accessibility statement covers this website ( www.ncl.ac.uk ) and applies to:
This website is managed by Newcastle University, we want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
If you need to make text size or colour changes, W3C have advice on helping you do this
AbilityNet also has guidance on making your device easier to use if you have a disability
Our website may contain links to third-party content.
Newcastle University is not responsible for the accessibility of this content.
We are committed to working with partners to ensure materials they are responsible for:
We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible:
We’re committed to improving the accessibility of this website.
You can contact us if you:
We’ll review and respond to your request and get back to you in five working days.
Or you can speak to us directly using information found on our contact us page .
If you feel your issue hasn’t been sufficiently addressed, you can raise a concern or make a complaint by completing our accessibility feedback form.
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
Newcastle University is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility regulations 2018.
Further information can be found on our Central Digital and Data Office Digital Accessibility guidance .
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard, due to the non-compliances listed below.
We will correct this as we review each page and as part of a review of our templates to be completed 2025.
We will correct this as part of our review of audio and video content to be completed 2025.
We will correct this or provide accessible alternatives as we review each page of our site to be completed 2025.
We will make digital content creators and contributors aware of the problems with PDF files ensuring new PDFs are accessible.
We will correct this as we review each page and as part of a review of our templates and site functionality.
We do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations.
In addition to the above statements, there are number of other University websites which sit outside of the main University infrastructure.
These are managed by individual teams or employees.
These websites:
These websites will be audited or retired and will be included within one of the statements above or listed separately by June 2025.
This list will be updated as the websites are reviewed, audited, and correct:
These are older intranets and will be made accessible when they are updated.
This statement was first prepared on 24 November 2022.
It was last reviewed on 07 February 2025.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/foi/publication-scheme/policies:
Written protocols for delivering our functions and responsibilities.
Our list of policies below provide information relating to our current written protocols, policies and procedures for conducting University business and for delivering our services and responsibilities.
You can also read our Slavery and Human Trafficking statement (PDF: 194KB).
Written protocols for delivering our functions and responsibilities in student health and wellbeing.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/brand-hub/visual-identity/photography/photographers:
Newcastle University uses images from the following photographers.
Web: www.chrisauldphotography.com Email: chris@chrisauldphotography.com
Web: www.picturesbybish.com Email: info@picturesbybish.com
Tel: 07982 738095 Email: colin@colinchancephotography.co.uk
Tel: 01434 604 600 Email: colincuthbert@btconnect.com
Email: dan@danbolamphotography.com
Web: www.danprince.co.uk Email: dan@danprince.co.uk
Web: www.someseedifferent.com Email: dave@someseedifferent.com
Email: duncan@duncanelliott.co.uk
Tel: 07966 594603 Email: eleri@aspiredesign.co.uk
Web: www.garrodkirkwood.com Email: garrod@garrodkirkwood.com
Tel: 0191 267 7258 Email: graeme.peacock@virgin.net
Web: www.hannahlayford.com Email: hello@hannahlayford.com
Web: www.idene.co.uk Email: ideneroozbayani@hotmail.com
Web: www.jdphotographer.co.uk Email: john@jdphotographer.co.uk
Tel: 0191 276 3302 Email: keithpattison@tesco.net
Web: www.kgphotography.co.uk Email: info@kgphotography.co.uk
Web: www.kristenmccluskie.com Email: studio@kristenmccluskie.com
Web: Mark Savage Blog marksavagephotographyblog@gmail.com
Tel: 07960 338357 Web: www.sarahdeanephotography.co.uk Email: sarah@sarahdeanephotography.co.uk
Web: www.veit-wilson.co.uk Email: simon@veit-wilson.co.uk
Web: www.zndr.co.uk/ Email: info@zndr.co.uk

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/info/legal:
This page covers legal procedures and statements relating to our websites.
It includes copyright, disclaimers and our cookies policy.
The University believes that it is in everyone's interests to resolve complaints as quickly as possible, and as close to the source of the problem as possible.
If you have a complaint about a service or any other dealing relating to the University, put your complaint in writing to the provider of the service or the relevant responsible officer.
If you don't know who the service provider or the relevant officer is, send your complaint to:
(Care of the) Head of Executive Office Newcastle University King's Gate Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 7RU
The service provider or relevant officer will respond to your complaint in writing normally within 10 working days.
If you are a current student or recent graduate of the University you should follow the procedure for student complaints.
All content published on the central web server ( www.ncl.ac.uk ) is (c) Copyright Newcastle University 2016 except for any which has been explicitly marked as being the copyright of another person.
All rights reserved.
Individuals are allowed to download or copy such materials for their own personal use only.
Proposals for any other reproduction should be made to:
Corporate Web Development Newcastle University King's Gate Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 7RU
The copyright of digital media published on the central web server ( www.ncl.ac.uk ) varies.
For details on individual images please contact us.
Images must not be reproduced without permission being granted in advance.
The University of Newcastle upon Tyne, trading as Newcastle University.
Newcastle University seeks to observe the highest standards of compliance with the law and the rights of rights holders, while publishing research and teaching resources to support our students and staff and contribute to academic practice.
If you are a rights holder and are concerned that you have found material on our website or legitimately under our name elsewhere, for which you have not given permission, or is not covered by a limitation or exception in laws of the UK or other countries (as relevant), please contact us in writing.
State the following:
Email: noticeandtakedown@ncl.ac.uk
Upon receipt of notification the 'Notice and Take down' procedure is then invoked.
Newcastle University makes every possible effort to ensure that the information published on our website is current and accurate.
It may be necessary to make occasional changes.
For example, we may need to make changes reflecting the availability of degree programmes, facilities or fees due to legitimate staffing, financial, regulatory or academic reasons.
Examples of why we may need to make changes include:
Changes to courses may, for example, consist of:
The University is not responsible for the content of any websites reached through links which do not form part of the Newcastle University domain ( www.ncl.ac.uk ).
Full details of the University’s terms and conditions, including reference to all relevant policies, procedures, regulations and information provision are available on our regulations page.
The University has registered as trademarks:
These trademarks may only be used in applications approved by the University, for instance on official documents.
They may not be used in any other context, for example on personal web pages, without the express consent of the University.
Each request to use one or more of these trademarks will be judged on its individual merits.
If you have a trademark query, email: brand-support@ncl.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/social-media:
We use a wide range of social media channels.
Catch our latest news, connect with staff and students, and ask us your questions.
LinkedIn
X (Twitter)
Facebook
Instagram
TikTok
Pinterest
YouTube channel
Weibo
WeChat
Red

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/employers:
Connect with our Employer team for opportunities to recruit and engage with our students and graduates
Newcastle University is a Russell Group research intensive University with key strengths in:
We have c29,000 students across 3 campuses in Newcastle, Malaysia and Singapore.
We are proud to be a Global Top 140 university (QS World University Rankings 2024) .
Newcastle University graduates are highly employable.
We are consistently targeted by Times Top 100 recruiters seeking high quality candidates.
We place great value on our relationships with graduate recruiters.
Our graduate outcomes depend upon the strength of these partnerships and their opportunities.
Our students get many offers each year, so recruiters need to stand out from the crowd.
We'll work with you to create a bespoke talent attraction plan and raise your profile on campus.
By working together we'll help you source the best people for your business.
Whether you're a small business or multinational recruiter, our friendly team can help.
We follow the AGCAS Code of Practice.
Register with our Employer Portal to create a profile for your organisation.
Advertise your graduate jobs, placements and part time vacancies.
Come along to our recruitment events to showcase your organisation.
Promote your opportunities and meet our students face to face.
Could your business benefit from hiring a talented student through a subsidised internship?
Find out the impact a 9-12 month placement student can have on your organisation and the support we offer.
Could you offer a student 50 hours work experience in your classroom or organisation?
Engage with our students and raise your profile on campus with a presentation or drop-in.
Our friendly team are here to help and answer any questions you have

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/stories:
Insights from students and graduates who have gained career experience.
Discover how Business Management graduate Natalie, became a serial entrepreneur and business founder after receiving a START UP Foundership.
Claire received a START UP Foundership to help develop and grow her Asian translation business AccuEast.
An award-winning entrepreneur, Masitano used START UP to help grow his tech business, Spareable.
Discover how Dr.
Georgios used START UP to developed his passion for improving healthcare into a thriving business.
Marketing and Management graduate, Sarah, received support, advice and coaching from START UP to launch her business.
Work experience gained through the Careers Service helped Isabel to land an internship on the Chris Moyle's show on Radio X.
Learn about how Alexander gained an internship as a research assistant in flood risk management.
Learn about how Grace gained an internship in Digital Marketing.
Learn about Jyotsna's work experience via internships
A placement year in marketing helped Ellen build confidence in her abilities and confirm her future career goals.
Computer Science student, Anthony, received support and grant funding from START UP to develop his freelancing business.
Graduate and Founder of WowzaBox shares his entrepreneurial journey
Learn about Sarah's experience of applying to medical school, the GAMSAT Bursary and their first semester studying.
Learn about Clara's experience of applying to medical school, the GAMSAT Bursary and their first semester studying.
Learn about how Jess's placement helped her get ready to apply for graduate roles.
Find out about how an internship helped Sarah to gain flexible experience in graphic design.
An internship in the heritage sector meant that Meg was able to gain experience supporting events and workshops on local history.
Fine Art student, Hazel, used the Make it Happen Fund to support a pop-up exhibition.
Find out how a placement year helped Alexander develop both his technical and professional skills.
Discover how Beth made speculative applications to secure her placement year as a trainee farm business consultant.
Find out about Oliver's data insights NCL Internship.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/contact-us:
Find out how to get in contact with the Careers Service.
The Careers Service is located in the King's Gate building, you can visit us at:
Level 1 King's Gate Newcastle University NE1 7RU
To book an appointment , please visit our One to One Support page.
You can contact us via telephone, Monday to Friday, 9.30 - 16.30 on: +44 (0) 191 208 3333.
Current students and graduates should choose option 2.
You can submit your query online through MyCareer.
Please email us at careers@ncl.ac.uk .
Our inbox is not monitored on a daily basis.
We aim to respond to queries within 5 working days.
If you have an urgent query please contact us by telephone.
Current students and eligible graduates can access one-to-one careers advice and support.
Find out how to book an in-person or online appointment or submit an online query.
Connect with our Employer team for opportunities to recruit and engage with our students and graduates.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/support-and-resources/online-resources/mycareer:
Find opportunities, search for events, book appointments and much more with our interactive platform: MyCareer.
MyCareer is our interactive platform exclusively for Newcastle University students and graduates up to 3 years after graduation.
Use it to:
MyCareer allows you to personalise and keep track of your Careers Service experience through customising your account.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options:
The Careers Service provides information and advice to support you.
Find out about your options after graduation, whether that's a graduate job or scheme, further study or self-employment.
It's never too early to begin researching and exploring careers.
Access information and tools to help you with your planning.
Understand what your options are and how to plan your next steps.
Find out about different careers and gain insights about the sector.
Learn about how to get experience and find jobs.
Making connections can help you with career planning and finding opportunities.
Access information about further study, funding and making successful applications.
Find out how we can support you with self-employment.
We can help you at any stage of starting a business, social enterprise, or freelance career.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/occupations:
With so much choice, deciding which kind of job you want can be difficult.
Use our occupations information to become more confident about exploring your options.
Find out about careers with animals, including roles such as animal behaviourist, zoologist, and vet.
Access information on finding experience and graduate opportunities.
Find out more about careers in this sector, including roles such as actuary, insurance broker and loss adjustor.
Access information about how to gain experience and secure graduate opportunities.
Explore careers in advertising, including roles such as account executive, creative director, and advertising copywriter.
Read information about how to gain experience, find graduate opportunities or work freelance.
Find out about careers in agriculture and forestry, including roles such as in national parks, woodland and farm management, conservation, and rural consultant.
Access information on finding experience and graduate jobs.
Find out about the application and assessment for the Fast Stream, the Civil Service accelerated leadership development programme.
Read about their summer internship programme and how to pass their selection process.
Find out about careers in architecture, planning and landscape.
Including roles such as architect, town planner and urban designer.
Access information about work experience, graduate opportunities or working for yourself.
Find out about careers in the armed forces, including the Army, the Royal Navy (including the Marines) and the RAF.
Access information about gaining experience, UOTC and securing graduate opportunities.
Explore careers in banking and finance, including roles such as investment banker, financial adviser or stockbroker.
Access information about how to gain experience, find graduate opportunities or work for yourself.
Find out more about careers in this sector, including roles such as charity fundraiser, volunteer coordinator and advice worker.
Find out about careers in this sector, including working as a civil or building engineer or in GIS or GPS.
Access information about gaining experience and securing graduate opportunities.
Explore careers in community, advice and guidance, including roles such as youth worker, community art worker, housing officer and careers adviser.
Read information about how to secure experience and graduate opportunities.
Find out about careers in this sector, including roles such as a sports therapist, chiropractor, or acupuncturist.
Access information about finding experience and opportunities, including working for yourself.
Find out more about careers in this sector, including roles such as CSR manager, sustainability consultant and compliance officer.
Access information about how to gain experience, secure graduate jobs or work for yourself.
Explore careers in counselling and psychotherapy, including roles such as high intensity therapist, counsellor, psychotherapist, or cognitive behaviour therapist.
Read about how to gain experience and find graduate jobs.
Explore careers in art, design and fashion, including roles such as arts administrator, fine artist, fashion designer and photographer.
Read about how to gain experience, find graduate opportunities and work freelance.
Explore careers in the Border Force and immigration, including roles such as Border Force Officer and Immigration Officer.
Explore careers in development and international aid, including working for government and non-governmental agencies, charities, pressure groups and think tanks.
Access information about finding experience and opportunities.
Find out about careers in this sector, including roles such as economist, statistician, and various roles in risk.
Find out more about careers in this sector, including roles such as tutor, teaching assistant, youth worker and careers adviser.
Find out about careers in renewable energy, nuclear, oil and gas and utilities.
Including roles such as drilling engineer, energy manager or geoscientist.
Access information about work experience and graduate opportunities.
Find out about careers in this sector, including roles such as mechanical engineer, chemical engineer or electrical engineer.
Find out about environmental roles, such as ecology, ranger, management, conservation, energy manager, water quality or waste.
Find out about careers in events, hospitality and catering, including roles such as events, restaurant or hotel manager.
Access information about how to gain experience, secure graduate opportunities or work for yourself.
Find out about food science careers, including roles such as nutritionist, food technologist, product scientist and quality manager.
Explore careers in this sector, including working in central and local government, security and intelligence services, trade unions, politics, and public affairs.
Find out about careers in healthcare, including working as a doctor, dentist, pharmacist, dental hygienist, dietitian, speech therapist and health professional.
Access information on finding experience and opportunities.
Find out about careers in human resources and recruitment, including roles such as HR adviser, recruitment consultant and training officer.
Find out about careers in this sector, including roles such as newspaper journalist, magazine journalist or writer.
Find out careers in languages, including roles such as teaching, translator, or interpreter.
Access information about gaining experience, securing graduate opportunities, and working freelance.
Find out about careers in this sector, including roles such as barrister, solicitor, paralegal and legal secretary.
Access information about conversion, the SQE, gaining experience and securing graduate opportunities.
Find out more about careers in this sector, including roles such as auditor, tax adviser and chartered accountant.
Access information about how to gain experience and graduate opportunities.
Find out about careers in this sector, including roles such as a librarian or archivist.
Access information about gaining experience and securing graduate opportunities, including in a library.
Find out about careers in life science, including lab based roles such as research scientist, microbiologist, pharmacologist or forensic scientist.
Access information about how to gain experience and secure graduate jobs.
Find out about careers in this sector, including roles such as logistics, supply chain or operations manager, pilot or transport planner.
Access information about finding experience and opportunities or working for yourself.
Explore careers in consultancy, including roles such as management consultant or business development manager.
Find out about careers in marine science, including roles such as marine biologist, marine scientist, and oceanographer.
Find out about careers in marketing, including roles such as digital marketer, social media manager or SEO specialist.
Find about careers in film, television, and radio, including roles such as runner, camera operator, technician, director or producer.
Access information about finding experience and opportunities and working freelance.
Explore careers in museums, galleries, and archaeology, including roles such as archivist, curator, archaeologist, and museum education officer.
Read about how to gain experience, find graduate opportunities or work freelance
Explore careers in music and performing arts, including roles such as musician, actor, music producer, theatre director and promotions manager.
Read advice on gaining experience, finding graduate jobs and freelancing.
Find out about careers in patents, including working as a patent or trademark attorney or in intellectual property (IP).
You don't need a law degree; instead a science degree is strongly preferred.
There's an extensive range of careers in physical sciences.
From astronomy to materials, meteorology and analytical chemistry.
Explore careers in the emergency services, including roles such as police officer, detective, firefighter or paramedic.
Find out about careers in prisons and probation, including roles such as prison officer, youth offending team officer or probation officer.
Find out about careers in this sector, including roles such as project manager and project co-ordinator.
Find out about careers in this sector, including roles such as estate agent, building surveyor or quantity surveyor.
Access information about gaining experience and secure graduate opportunities.
Explore careers in psychology, including roles such as clinical, sports, educational, or forensic psychologist, and psychological practitioner positions.
Read about how to gain experience and find graduate opportunities.
Find out about careers in public, environmental, occupational, and global health, including roles such as an epidemiologist.
Access information on finding work experience and graduate opportunities.
Find out about physical science careers, including roles analytical chemist, geoscientist, materials specialist, astronomer or physicist.
Explore careers in publishing, including roles such as editorial assistant, copy editor or literary agent.
Find out more about careers in academic research, including roles such as research assistant and higher education lecturer.
Read information about how to gain experience, find graduate opportunities, or work freelance.
Find out about careers in retail and buying, including roles such as retail, sales or procurement manager, visual merchandiser, or buyer.
Opportunities out of the lab exist in the public, private and voluntary sectors - including business, research, policy and teaching.
Explore careers in communication, regulatory affairs, technical writing, and medical sales.
Explore careers in social research and policy, including roles such as social researcher, policy officer or government social research officer.
Find out more about careers in social work, including information on social worker and social work assistant roles.
Read about how to gain experience and secure graduate opportunities.
Find out about careers in this sector, including roles such as sports and exercise therapist, physiologist, personal trainer, and sports development officer.
Teaching as a foreign language (TEFL) is a popular option for graduates wishing to spend time living and working abroad.
Find out more about roles in the sector such as English as a foreign language teacher (EFL).
Find out about careers in this sector including roles such as further education teacher and higher education lecturer.
Teaching in schools can be a rewarding and fulfilling career.
There are many opportunities for career progression.
Find out about roles such as early years teacher, primary school teacher and secondary teacher.
Find out about technology and data careers, including roles such as IT consultant, cyber security analyst, data scientist, UX designer, games developer.
Access information about finding work experience and graduate jobs.
Explore careers in leisure, sports and tourism, including roles such as personal trainer, tourism officer, sports therapist, and sports development officer.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/change-or-leave-course:
It’s not uncommon to have doubts about coming to university or your choice of course.
If you find yourself in this situation, the Careers Service can help support you to make a decision.
Whatever the reason for your concern try not to panic but do face up to the issue as it's unlikely to resolve itself.
Take a step back and consider what is really making you think about changing or leaving your course.
Some common reasons include:
Ask yourself:
If you are considering changing your course or leaving university, you can book a guidance appointment with a Careers Consultant.
They can discuss your goals, options that may interest you and help you build a plan for your next steps.
We are impartial practitioners, so can support you if you are considering options outside of Newcastle University.
Please note the Careers Service is not involved in decisions regarding resits, PECs or appeals.
We are unable to advise on these processes.
We suggest you speak directly to your school office for support on these matters.
We have compiled some information below which may answer some of the questions you have.
Some courses will be open for internal transfers for approximately the first 2-3 weeks of Semester one.
Not all courses will have available spaces, and some may accept transfers after this time frame.
You must first check with the school office for the new course you are interested in.
If the programme is accepting transfers, you will also need to find out the name of the Degree Programme Director (DPD) of the new course.
You will then apply to the DPD directly for consideration.
As part of this process, they may wish to speak to you about why you now feel this is the best course for you.
It is essential that you can explain your decision to change course in a positive way.
You will also need to show you meet the academic requirements of the course.
We suggest adding details of your A Levels and previous module outcomes if applicable in your initial enquiry.
Find details of the programme transfer procedure.
If you are thinking about changing courses but you are not sure which course is right for you, you can book a guidance appointment with a careers consultant.
Conversations that you have with any member of staff in the Careers Service or Student Services are not shared with academic staff.
We offer a confidential service to all students.
It can be beneficial to share your concerns with your Personal Tutor.
They may be able to advise and direct you to relevant sources of support or reassure you about future course content.
You may also want to talk to a Careers Consultant about how to approach the subject with your tutor.
Don’t assume employers will view your choice negatively.
Employers will respond to your situation based on the information they have available.
It is therefore sensible to present your change of course in a positive way.
How you do this will depend on your own circumstances.
You could show an understanding of self-awareness and responsibility.
You could demonstrate research skills and decision-making in presenting how you took this choice.
You may want to discuss how you present this information to an employer with a Careers Consultant.
This depends on how long you have been studying.
If you completed a full year, passed 120 credits and were due to progress to stage 2, you will be eligible for a Higher Education Certificate (CertHE).
If you have completed 2 years of study and passed 240 credits, you would be eligible for a Higher Education Diploma (DipHE).
Contact the University’s Student Progress team for further advice on this.
Employers value both your subject knowledge and the skills and experience you gain as a student.
Many employers will recruit students from any degree course.
They will look at what you did during your time at University.
and whether you have the transferable skills relevant to the opportunities advertised.
The What can I do with my degree?
information on the Prospects website can also be a useful resource to help you to identify these skills and think about career options where your degree would be useful.
If you want to study an alternative course at university, the UCAS Undergraduate What to Study website offers useful advice.
Including an easy-to-use course-search tool.
If you need a more flexible study option you can search for part-time, evening and virtual courses on Find Courses.
This includes courses in further and higher education, vocational courses and apprenticeships.
If you know where you want to study, most universities and colleges will have an online prospectus or details of courses on their website.
A degree apprenticeship could be another option to consider, allowing you to study while in paid employment.
The UCAS website has useful advice in its What to study section.
When you are researching courses, look at:
Talking ideas through confidentially with a Careers Consultant can help you.
They can help you to explore the implications of any course change and help you to feel more confident about your decisions.
It is essential that you are able to explain your decision to change course in a positive way.
An admissions tutor will want to talk with you about why you now feel this is the best course for you.
Focus on issues such as what interests you about the course and why you will be successful at it, rather than what is wrong with your current course.
It can be useful to first discuss how you might approach this discussion with a Careers Consultant.
Speak to the Degree Programme Director (DPD) of the course you wish to transfer to and the DPD of your current course.
Be aware that if you are looking to change course at Newcastle, it will be at the discretion of the DPD of the course you’re looking to join.
If in agreement, the respective DPDs then sign the appropriate transfer request forms and manage the process on your behalf.
The University’s Student Progress team can support you with further advice on this process.
This will depend on whether the course you are transferring to is similar in nature to your current course.
If there are no similarities you will normally be required to start from Stage 1.
To move into Stage 2 you will be expected to have passed an appropriate number of credits from the previous year.
We recommend that you discuss what is expected of you with the admissions tutor for the course you want to move to.
This will depend on your circumstances and the course and stage you are moving to.
If you are looking to start a new subject from the first year, this is less likely to be a requirement.
If you are transferring to a similar subject, you might be expected to show your success in exams.
If you are progressing to the next year of a similar course, you will need to have passed the appropriate number of credits from your previous year.
In theory you can change course at any time, but you may have to wait for the start of a new academic year to change to a different subject.
At Newcastle University, it can be difficult to change onto another course after the first few weeks of teaching.
This is to ensure you don’t fall behind with your modules.
It depends on how similar your new course is to your current one and whether you want to stay within the same year or start again.
You may need to consider the financial implications of staying on or leaving your course:
Visit the University’s Student Financial Support pages for further information.
This team also have information on the financial implications of withdrawing from your course on their website.
You can also contact the Student Financial Support team by email: student.fin-supp@ncl.ac.uk or visit their Appointments & Drop-ins page for 1:1 support.
Studying part-time could be a consideration.
Which mode of study you adopt will depend on your own circumstances and what institutions have available.
Some institutions and disciplines find it difficult to accommodate part-time study.
It is important that you are realistic when you research this option.
If you are looking to transfer your studies at Newcastle University to part-time, you need to seek approval and permission from your DPD.
They will be required to inform the University’s Student Progress team.
Part-time courses are studied over a longer period of time than their full-time equivalents.
Students spend fewer hours per week in a classroom allowing time to balance part-time employment or other commitments.
You will continue to be considered a PARTNERS student by the University, even if you move to another course at Newcastle.
However, If you are looking to change course, the DPD for the course you want to join will decide what grades are required.
On the whole, academics view PARTNERS students favourably.
However they may look at your marks or general university progress when making a decision.
For more advice on changing course as a PARTNERS student, contact the Student Recruitment team .
There is a finite list of subjects that can be studied as a Combined Honours programme; it is not possible to study a combination outside of this list.
Studying a Combined Honours programme is a challenging alternative, but it could be possible to transfer over if you can demonstrate commitment and some current academic success at university.
Students need to pass 40 credits of study in an academic subject to progress to stage 2 in that subject, so those transferring after some time at university in single honours are likely to have to start the new subject(s) at stage 1.
You might find it helpful to visit the Combined Honours website and read the information before discussing your interest further with the Combined Honours team .
If this option appeals to you, it is important that you are able to demonstrate why you feel a Combined Honours programme is a more appropriate choice for you.
You are advised to speak with a Careers Consultant who will be able to discuss with you alternative options to studying at Newcastle.
You should speak to your Personal Tutor who will ask you to complete a withdrawal questionnaire.
This is then sent to the University’s Student Progress team.
Refer back to your Student Handbook and use your Personal Tutor as the starting point.
They will be able to advise you about the various University procedures.
It can be confusing, as there are different procedures depending on your particular circumstances.
Your school will guide you in the right direction.
The Careers Service can help you examine alternative options to your current studies, but if you are unhappy about the university’s decision to ask you to leave your course then you should seek further advice from the Student Advice Centre in the Students’ Union.
Taking time out, or a gap year, is a great way to gain experience before entering employment or further study.
However there are many factors you'll need to consider.
We've provided some of the pros and cons of taking time out and listed some resources to help you plan.
There are a number of options available for taking time out, including:
Before deciding whether to take time out, you should consider the pros and cons.
There are many advantages to taking time out.
You could gain:
There are also several drawbacks, such as:
Use the Prospects website to think about whether a gap year is right for you .
If you decide taking time out is right for you, it's crucial to plan your time effectively.
If you have any questions about taking time out or need help to find opportunities, book an online appointment or contact us via MyCareer .
You may also be interested in Volunteering , Teaching English as a Foreign Language or not-for-profit careers including, charities , development and community work .
A programme transfer onto another course at Newcastle often happens without needing to go through UCAS.
You will need to speak to your Personal Tutor or Degree Programme Director (DPD) and the tutor or DPD for the course you want to move to.
They can help you to understand whether you will be able to transfer directly without going through UCAS.
Yes, you will normally be required to make an application via UCAS if you want to change university.
We would recommend making contact with the admissions tutor for the course you are interested in first.
You can discuss your suitability, demonstrate your interest and clarify how they want you to apply.
If you decide to change university during the summer, you should contact the institution directly.
This is because the UCAS application process for the academic year will have closed.
You can research opportunities through UCAS Clearing if you are applying for courses at other universities during the summer.
If you decide to reapply, you’ll need to submit a new application through the UCAS website (you will not be able to reuse your previous UCAS application).
You will need a reference unless you contact all of the universities you are applying to and all agree that no reference is required.
Your reference should be someone who knows you academically.
This could be a tutor from your course or a teacher from your school or college.
Who you choose will depend on how long you have been a university student and who can best comment on your academic ability.
You may want to discuss your choice of reference with an admissions tutor for the course(s) you are applying to or with a Careers Consultant.
For further information, see advice on references from the UCAS website.
If you withdraw from your course, the amount of tuition fees you will be liable to pay will depend on the term in which you withdraw or suspend.
This team have information on the financial implications of withdrawing from your course on their website.
You can also email the Student Financial Support team student.fin-supp@ncl.ac.uk or visit their Appointments & Drop-ins page for 1:1 support.
It depends on whether you remain at this University or move to another one.
Each student’s entitlement will vary depending on their individual circumstances.
We recommend contacting the Student Financial Support team, you can visit their Appointments & Drop-ins page.
You can also seek advice from the Student Union’s Student Advice Centre .
HMRC will look at your tax records and see if your income has reached the current level for repayment.
Check current levels for repaying Undergraduate and Postgraduate student loans on the Gov.UK website.
If it has, you will then be liable to start paying off your loan.
If you withdraw from your course you will need to notify your assessment authority, e.g.
Student Finance England.
They will calculate what loan and grant Last updated: May 2021 you were eligible to receive based on your attendance.
If you withdraw part-way through the year, you may find that you have been overpaid some of the grant and/or loan.
If an overpayment occurs, then you will usually be asked to repay this straight away.
You will repay any student loan you received in the normal way, i.e.
in the April after you have left the course and when you are earning above the threshold.
Visit the University’s Student Financial Support pages and their information on the financial implications of withdrawing from your course for further information.
If you leave your course, you will usually have to pay back some of the money given to you through awards and bursaries that are not considered a loan.
This will usually be based on the length of time you were expected to study and the amount of time you actually spent as a student at the University.
Each grant-awarding body will have their own rules on this, so find out from your bursary or scholarship provider what their policy is.
For example, the Achievement Bursary will be cancelled if you withdraw before the bursaries are paid.
If you withdraw after these bursaries have been paid, you will not be asked to repay either of these bursaries.
The University’s Accommodation Service is available to advise you on all aspects of your accommodation.
If you withdraw from the University and are living in University accommodation, you will be charged the full rent on your room for the term.
You will normally only be released from this if the room is re-let to another student.
Under the terms of your contract, responsibility for finding a suitable replacement tenant lies with you.
The Accommodation Service will make every effort to help you find a replacement tenant however, this cannot be guaranteed.
Please note it is your responsibility to inform the Accommodation Service of your intention to withdraw.
Neither your academic school nor Student Progress would automatically notify the Accommodation Service.
You may want to consider contacting the Student Advice Centre for issues relating to your private tenancies.
Everybody’s circumstances will be different.
It is therefore important that you talk directly with the Accommodation Service .
For advice on your rights as a private tenant, you can book an appointment with a Housing Adviser at the Student Advice Centre in the Students’ Union.
The University’s Accommodation Service may also be able to support you with information about rented accommodation.
Employers will often spot gaps in education or employment on a CV, so it is usually wise to account for that time.
Use dates to clarify when you were studying at a specific institution.
Highlight the skills you acquired or the relevant knowledge you developed as part of any course or module you studied.
Describing your reasons for changing or leaving a course may be more appropriate for a covering letter than a CV.
If you’d like to chat further about how to present this positively to an employer, you may find it useful to speak to a Careers Consultant.
A covering letter can be used to outline your reasons for changing or leaving your course.
It gives you more opportunity to explain your decision than a CV does.
Aim to present your decision in a positive way.
Perhaps highlight your decision-making and research skills, as well as your self-awareness.
It can be positive to demonstrate that you can recognise a dilemma and weigh up your options and take a decision.
Aim to show what you have gained from taking responsibility and addressing this issue.
The National Careers Service offers impartial information, advice and guidance.
They can help you to make decisions on learning, training and work opportunities.
Apprenticeships are a great way to train on the job and gain qualifications with a partner university or college while getting paid.
You can apply for degree apprenticeships at level 6 (bachelors) and level 7 (masters).
You can find opportunities on the following websites:
It may also be worthwhile researching employers as some vacancies may appear on an employer’s own website.
Volunteering is also a great way to learn more about an organisation.
You can prove your capabilities and make useful contacts to assist you in your job search.
You may find talking to a careers consultant a useful and impartial next step.
It could help you to understand your options and decide the best way forward.
We can highlight resources to help you, including course directories and employment opportunities.
It may also be helpful to speak to some of the following people to inform your decision:
students on alternative courses you might be considering
As well as the Careers Service, there are other services across the University who can support you in a variety of ways.
The Student Wellbeing team can provide:
information and advice on healthcare matters, faith and all aspects of funding and finance
Newcastle University Chaplaincy offers a confidential listening and support service.
Students of all faiths or without can access this.
There are study skills resources available from the University's libraries .
Access resources, advice and one-to-one support on numerical and mathematical skills from Maths Aid .
The Academic Skills Team provides resources, advice and one-to-one support on a range of academic and study skills.
English language support for international students is available from In-Sessional English .
The Student Advice Centre offers free, impartial advice and representation.
Access support on a range of issues including finance and academic matters.
You could gain a level 6 or 7 qualification while in paid employment through a Degree Apprenticeship.
The following external websites provide further information about changing or leaving your course:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/career-planning/making-career-choices:
Wherever you are at in your studies or research, it's never too early to start exploring ideas for your future.
It's important to take some time to think about your career plans.
This can help you identify and explore your preferences, values and skills and consider what you want to do after university.
Visualise your ideal job or working environment.
What aspects of this make it appealing?
You don't have to decide on a career straight away.
You could start by identifying one or two sectors, such as healthcare or marketing.
You can investigate further questions on our Explore your options sheet (PDF: 606KB).
Pulling these thoughts together is the beginning of a career plan.
Finding this difficult?
Here are some actions to get you started.
There are so many different careers available that it can sometimes feel overwhelming and confusing.
Researching which opportunities interest you can help.
The majority of graduate jobs are open to any degree subject.
From your answers, what are the current gaps in your knowledge, and how can you fill these?
Whether you’re in your first year or undertaking your PhD, it’s never too early to start planning your future and putting your ideas into action.
Gaining experience and making contacts will help you to explore your career options.
It can also enhance your employability.
Getting work experience while you study will help you gain the skills employers are looking for.
This could be anything from spending a day shadowing an employer , to internships or year-long placements .
You can also gain valuable skills, such as communication, team work and interpersonal skills, through part-time jobs and volunteering .
If you're in stage two or three of your degree, you could try student tutoring.
Or use your part-time job or voluntary work to gain recognised skills and academic credit through the Career development module .
Extra-curricular activities, such as joining a society or sports team, or taking part in competitions are also beneficial for your career.
Get recognition for your efforts with the ncl+ Award and gain credit on your Higher Education Achievement Report (HEAR).
If you’re interested in exploring self-employment or developing enterprise skills, our START UP team can help.
Go along to one of their events or workshops to find out more.
If you are studying a PhD, consult with your supervisor to discuss opportunities such as:
You can also find opportunities for personal and professional development on the Newcastle University Doctoral College site .
If you are a researcher, Organisational Development offer employability courses for research staff.
For more information, contact Sandra Hobson-Tate at the Careers Service.
Engage with employers on and off-campus through employer and recruitment events .
You’ll also find opportunities to network, such as at our annual Creative Careers event.
Make contacts in your chosen field.
LinkedIn is a great way to do this, but conferences and events are also valuable.
Create a LinkedIn profile and start connecting with others.
Follow employers and join groups to keep yourself up-to-date with your chosen field.
You can make contacts through Twitter - find relevant accounts on our sector-specific Twitter Lists .
Joining a professional body can give you access to training and networking opportunities, as well as careers support.
You may be able to join as a student member.
Find links to relevant professional bodies in explore occupations .
Whether your plan is to go into work, start a business, undertake further study or take some time out, now is the time to put your plan into action.
Top tip: make a note of the recruitment process and deadline for each job.
Keep a record of what you have applied for and remember to save all your job descriptions and applications for future reference.
With around 4.8 million people in self-employment, more and more graduates are thinking about setting up their own businesses.
Whether you want to work freelance or start your own business, START UP in the Careers Service can help you.
You may want to undertake further study, to pursue an academic career or to gain a necessary qualification to achieve the role you want.
Taking time out can be a great way to gain experience before finding a graduate job or undertaking further study.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/career-planning/what-graduates-do:
If you're wondering what your course might lead to, finding out what other graduates do could help.
All graduates who complete a higher education course in the UK are asked to take part in HESA's Graduate Outcomes survey.
The survey looks at what they were doing 15 months after their studies.
The results can help you gain an insight into career destinations and development.
For nationwide results, see:
You might be curious to see examples of what our graduates do after they finish their studies.
Our NCL Graduate Employment Outcomes directory shows:
You can explore the information by school and individual course .
The data is from HESA’s annual Graduate Outcomes survey.
To protect graduates’ confidentiality, we can’t provide course data where the sample size is too small.
National press league tables use HESA's Graduate Outcomes data.
They compare different institutions, usually on a subject basis.
Each league table uses a different method to generate their results, so take care in drawing conclusions from them.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/making-contacts/newcastle-alumni-linkedin:
With LinkedIn, you can research the career paths of more than 134,000 of our former students.
Find out what they did after graduation and how they got there.
Reach out to them for advice and inspiration.
Find out how to connect with alumni on LinkedIn in three simple steps:
Go to LinkedIn to sign up.
You can find advice on creating and developing your profile on our LinkedIn page .
We can give you feedback on your LinkedIn profile during CV appointments.
Book an appointment through MyCareer for a 15-minute review.
Joining groups helps you find people and connect more easily.
The Alumni Association’s group is a great way to get started.
Once you have joined the group, you can:
You can also join:
LinkedIn's Alumni tool lets you view details of more than 134,000 Newcastle alumni worldwide.
You can see:
Before you contact anyone on LinkedIn, think carefully about what you want to know and how best to make use of a graduate's valuable time.
Do some background research on their role and organisation.
Tell them what you already know, to help them tailor their advice to your needs.
If you’re asking to connect with them:
Explain who you are and why you’re contacting them.
If they accept your connection request, send a follow-up message thanking them and go into more detail about what you’d like to know.
Our alumni are busy and may not be able to respond immediately.
If you don’t receive a reply:
When you receive a reply, please acknowledge and thank the graduates for taking the time to respond.
Keep in touch with them and update them with your progress.
You never know when they may hear of a relevant opportunity they could recommend you for.
It can be useful to talk to others in the field.
The graduate may be able to suggest other people who can help you.
Get specific names and titles and ask if you can use the graduate’s name when setting up any future contact.
Hi…
I found your profile in the Newcastle University Alumni Association group.
I’m studying marketing at Newcastle and am really interested in a career in digital marketing.
I saw that you’ve had a variety of digital marketing roles and I’m keen to get your advice.
Would you be willing to answer a few questions about your experience?
Many thanks
Your name
You should try to get advice about a role or industry to help you in your career planning and job search.
Don’t ask directly for a job or work experience.
Try to avoid asking general questions you could easily find the answer to from the company website.
Use this opportunity to ask specific questions - perhaps two or three initially.
To help you get started, here are some examples:
If you need more help using social media for your career, please book an information appointment through MyCareer .
Take part our careers workshops on using social media - for dates and times, see Events .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/making-contacts/social-media:
Find out how using social media can benefit your career.
LinkedIn, X (previously Twitter), Facebook, Instagram and other forms of social media can help guide your career path.
You can connect with potential employers and their employees and research companies.
You can use it to find out more about what they do and the current issues affecting their business.
This can help you write better job applications, and boost your confidence in interviews and assessment centres.
Interacting with employers online also demonstrates your interest in their organisation/sector.
Social media can also be valuable for speculative applications .
Employers often research candidates online before selecting them, including looking at their social media.
In some cases employers have withdrawn job offers because of a candidate's social media.
You have control of the image you project.
Manage your digital footprint well and you can use it to make a positive impression.
Whatever you write on a public website should be something that you would be happy for a recruiter to see.
Make sure you check the privacy settings on your social media accounts.
These websites have more information on using social media for job hunting and managing your online reputation.
There are many benefits to using LinkedIn for your career.
However, you need to keep your account up to date and be proactive if you want it to work for you.
Being active on LinkedIn increases your Google rankings.
This means potential employers are more likely to find you.
You can use LinkedIn to do the following:
Use LinkedIn to find advertised jobs .
Some employers now use LinkedIn for direct recruitment.
In some cases, you can submit your LinkedIn profile instead of a CV.
Begin by connecting to existing contacts such as friends and family then:
Generic connection requests can be ignored.
Make it more personal by sending a message when you connect with someone.
Be clear why you want to connect.
Your reason should not be to request a job or work experience.
You can demonstrate your interest by:
Carry out research by:
Our tutorials on how to make the most of LinkedIn cover the following topics:
There are many advantages to using X for your career.
Use it to find vacancies and research the industry you're interested in.
You can also network and promote yourself and your career interests.
It can be difficult to separate your personal and professional life on X.
It's a good idea to have a separate professional account on X.
Make useful contacts on X by:
You can use X for your career research by:
Websites with information to help you use X in your career.
When used with care, there are many ways that you can use Facebook for your career.
It can be difficult to separate your personal and professional life on Facebook.
It's a good idea to have a separate professional account on Facebook.
Make career contacts on Facebook by:
Sharing what you are doing on Facebook can help you to find opportunities.
You can do this by adding a status update about your career and what you are looking for.
Friends and family are likely to be willing to help you.
You can gain useful contacts and resources.
Companies sometimes offer opportunities on Facebook to win internships.
Websites with more tips on using Facebook for your career.
You can use Instagram to showcase your talents, connect with industry leaders.
and create valuable opportunities.
Your Instagram profile acts as your digital business card.
Optimise it by:
Instagram's visual nature makes it an ideal platform for showcasing your talent.
Consider doing the following:
Building a network and engaging with others is key to growing your career on Instagram.
Do this by:
Instagram offers various features that can build your career opportunities.
Make the most of these by:
Make an appointment if you need more help using social media for your career.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/making-contacts/information-interviews:
Information interviews offer valuable career advice and insights through informal conversations with someone about their career or organisation.
Information interviews are a great opportunity to build your network and find out more about a career or organisation.
The main purpose of an information interview is to gain advice and support, not to ask for a job.
There are a number of ways you can find contacts.
Before you connect, plan your meeting to give structure and focus.
If you don't know what you want, a meeting can turn into a chat and end up being an unproductive experience.
For example, the focus of a meeting could be on:
Do your research and find out about the organisation in advance.
One of the best ways to make them interested in you is to show that you are interested in them.
Getting in touch with someone can feel daunting at first.
Here's some advice to help you get started.
It's always good to ask questions when you meet contacts.
What do you want to find out?
What's important to you?
To help you get started, here are some questions you could ask:
Reflect on the interview, what you have learned and how it might affect your career decisions.
Send a brief thank you note to everyone who helped you.
Stay in touch.
Update your contacts on your progress.
Let them know what actions you've taken, what jobs you're looking at and anything they said or did that helped you.
This will help them remember you and let them know that the time they spent on you was worthwhile.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/making-contacts/mentoring:
Find out more about how a mentor could help you with your career planning and employability.
Mentors offer advice and information to support people.
This can be with their career, personal or professional development.
You can benefit from a mentor’s experience and knowledge of a job role, employer or sector.
The arrangement can be short or long term, depending on the type of support you need.
The National Careers Service has advice on how to get the most from mentoring .
Before contacting a mentor, consider:
If you work for a large employer, they may have a mentoring scheme that you can join.
You may be able to find a mentor from a part time job, work experience, volunteering or your personal contacts .
You could find a mentor through a professional networking platform such as LinkedIn .
You could research companies or organisations that you are interested in then reach out to make contact.
For more information on connecting to people through LinkedIn, visit Making Contacts .
Some academic schools run mentoring programmes for current students.
Speak with your school office to find out more.
If you are a graduate, you could apply to join the 60 minute alumni-to-alumni mentoring scheme .
Alumni mentors are available in a wide range of industries.
You can use an online mentoring programme.
You will be matched with an industry professional.
1-hour sessions are available on the following platforms:
If you would like more help with networking and finding a mentor, you could book an appointment with an Information Adviser.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/further-study/masters:
A Master's degree is a postgraduate study programme.
It allows students to specialise and deepen their knowledge in a specific field.
A Master's degree (often just called a Master's) is a postgraduate degree that usually follows an undergraduate degree.
It normally lasts one to two years.
During a Master's course, students may carry out advanced coursework.
They will often do research and projects related to their chosen subject.
UK universities offer a diverse range of Master's programmes across various disciplines.
Many universities offer flexible study options, including full-time, part-time, and online courses.
In the UK, there are several types of Master's degree.
These are some of the most common types:
Each programme has its own requirements and curriculum.
You'll need to do your research to find the one that matches up with your interests and career aspirations.
This section focusses on the UK.
For postgraduate study outside the UK, see study abroad .
Find a Master's degree that suits you and learn how to create an application that stands out.
Funding a Master's is different to funding an undergraduate degree.
Explore the different funding options available.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/further-study/masters/finding-and-applying:
Discover how to find a Master's course that suits you and get advice on your application.
Undertaking further study can be time consuming and expensive, so it's important to do your research.
We’ve included resources here to help research Master’s courses.
You might want to find out answers to the following questions when doing your research.
The following websites list Master’s courses.
They also provide further information about postgraduate study:
The following websites list MBA programmes:
There are other resources that can help you research courses and institutions.
These include study fairs, graduate destination data and comparison data.
Visiting universities is often a good way to find out if you are going to be comfortable studying there.
It's also a good chance to explore the surrounding area.
Prospects universities and departments has open day information or contact details where you can find out about these.
Compare institutions using data obtained through the annual National Student Survey (NSS).
NSS results are publicly available on the Discover Uni undergraduate course search.
Visit the website of the institution you're interested in to view their destination data.
They should give you employment and study data for graduates from different degrees.
For examples of what Newcastle University graduates do after their studies, you can browse our NCL Graduate Employment Outcomes directory .
The data is from graduates finishing between 2017-2020 who completed HESA’s annual Graduate Outcomes survey.
It shows records of employment, including full-time, part-time and self-employed work.
You can explore the information by school and individual course.
You might also want to look at comparison data when finding your Master's.
University league tables can be a useful point of reference.
However, it is unwise to base your choice of course or institution solely on this kind of data.
The methods used to create each league table differ, so take care when drawing conclusions.
These are some of some of the main university league tables:
The following people can be helpful when you are decision making:
If you're deciding if a particular course is right for you, it might help to talk with a careers consultant.
Find information on when and how to apply for a Master's.
We also have advice on writing a personal statement.
Applying early gives you the best chance of securing a place and any available funding.
During the autumn term (or about 12 months before planning to start your course) is an ideal time to start.
You might make a late decision to pursue postgrad study.
If so, make direct enquiries to the institution to see if places/funding are still available.
There are no official closing dates for applications to most postgrad courses.
There are however, often cut-off points by which you must apply for any available funding.
Some popular vocational courses have application deadlines in the year preceding entry.
This is to allow time for interviews and assessment to take place.
If you are unsure about a course deadline, check the website for the course/institution.
For specific queries contact admissions departments.
We've listed some deadlines for applying to some specific vocational courses below.
Applications for most postgraduate courses are made to the course provider.
This is different to undergraduate entry.
There are a few exceptions.
Some are listed in the Vocational courses section below.
Details of how to apply should be available on the institution's website.
Check the application process for each institution.
Applications are usually made by completing the institution's own online application form.
You might have to submit a CV and cover letter (more common for research places).
Informal enquiries about research degrees are usually encouraged before applying.
Central admissions services also handle applications for several vocational courses, including:
Writing applications for further study is like completing job applications.
You need to show relevant skills, experience and knowledge.
You also need to show motivation and commitment to the course.
Your personal statement is a vital part of your application.
It should be relevant, focused and well structured.
This will create a positive first impression
Don't use the same personal statement for each application.
Find out what is relevant for each course and institution.
Spend time on on each individual application.
Think about the following questions:
Show how your academic experience is relevant:
Consider your non-academic experience and how it may be relevant:
Show that you have considered the demands of postgraduate study.
Give details where you have:
Think about demonstrating other skills specific to your chosen course or research area.
Remember to give evidence.
Don't just say you have a particular skill - prove it.
Try not to just repeat what you have read on the university website.
It's not essential to have a definite plan or goal.
It is important to show that you have considered your options and how this course will further these.
Your statement needs to have a definite structure.
This includes an introduction, main body and ending.
Remember:
Make sure:
Application forms often ask you to state how you plan to finance your course.
Admissions departments use this information.
They want to assess how many applicants are competing for funding.
If funding isn't available through the department, you should state your most likely source of funding.
You don't have to have a definite source at this stage.
For more information on financing postgraduate study, see Funding a Master's Degree .
Tips when choosing referees:
The following resources offer more information on writing a personal statement.
We can give you feedback on your personal statement.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/further-study/masters/funding:
Find out how to fund your Master's degree.
Competition for Master's funding can be fierce.
However, there are several options open to those looking to fund further study.
The resources here focus on the UK.
For information on funding study outside the UK, see our Study Abroad webpages .
The following websites provide general information on Master's funding:
Begin your funding search by contacting the admissions office for your course.
Your chosen course may have some funded places available.
Some of these are financed by Research Councils.
Others receive funding from industry and professional bodies.
These organisations don't normally accept direct applications from students.
It's likely you will need to apply through the institution offering the course.
Questions you could ask the admissions office include:
Our students can also access the Student Financial Support Team the Student Advice Centre also offers financial advice.
Newcastle University's guide to funding and funding database gives information about funding opportunities.
The UK Government Postgraduate Loans Scheme is available to eligible students.
The loan is administered by Student Loans Company (SLC).
It is repayable and interest will is charged
To be eligible for the Postgraduate Master's Loan, you must be a UK national or have settled status in the UK .
EU and EEA nationals may be eligible if they meet certain residency requirements.
The loan is available for most UK University taught and research Master's courses.
It's essential to check with the specific institution and course to confirm eligibility.
Students apply to the UK government's Student Loans Company (SLC).
The application process involves providing information about the course, university, and personal details.
Eligibility criteria and loan terms are subject to change.
For up-to-date information visit:
Tuition fee loans are available to Northern Irish students for taught postgraduate courses.
Postgraduate loans in Northern Ireland has details of tuition fee loans.
Government funding is available for some vocational courses.
This includes some teacher training or social work, medicine and healthcare postgraduates courses.
You can apply for funding for:
Local Authority discretionary awards are rare and are usually only for vocational courses.
Scholarships are not normally expected to be repaid.
They can often fund both your study and some living expenses.
Because of this they are extremely competitive.
Scholarship awards are based upon various criteria.
These usually reflect the values and purposes of the donor or founder of the award.
For example, you may need to study a specific subject.
You might have certain personal characteristics (such as your nationality or gender).
You might need study in a particular country or university.
Most scholarships have strict deadlines.
You’ll need to carry out your research well in advance of starting your studies.
Check websites and contact the admissions offices of universities you are interested in.
They may have a scheme that is not listed here.
The following websites provide information about scholarships:
See also Student Financial Support - Bursaries, Scholarships and Prizes .
Many of these have specific criteria.
Some are for undergraduate rather than postgraduate study but are still worth investigating.
Universities sometimes offer specific scholarships and bursaries for international students.
Contact the department or institution you are applying to for more information.
For example Newcastle University offer several international scholarships each year.
The British Council lists scholarships schemes.
These are offered by the UK government and colleges and universities to study in the UK.
Other types of Master’s funding are rare but there are alternative sources.
There are some bodies which will support further study.
Most only provide small or partial grants.
You should apply early, as the awarding committees may not meet often.
Investigate any criteria as they can have narrow eligibility.
You will need to write a persuasive cover letter and CV .
You can get help with your application from the Careers Service.
Charities and grant-making trusts sometimes offer funding to support students undertaking postgraduate study.
Find further details in the following publications, available in the Philip Robinson Library:
Talk to academics to identify companies with a potential interest in your study.
You may need to work for the company that sponsors you.
Relevant organisations may help students with funding.
Examples include the Law Society and the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS).
You can find other examples of professional bodies for different sectors on our Explore Occupations webpages .
Funding yourself may be an option but is a major financial investment.
There are several things to consider:
Some universities, including Newcastle, offer emergency financial support to their students.
This funding is only for emergencies and unplanned circumstances.
Its not intended to fund your study .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/further-study/phd:
PhD applications are different to other university courses.
In this section you can find out how to apply for and fund a PhD.
A PhD refers to a Doctor of Philosophy degree.
It is a postgraduate research degree awarded by universities in the United Kingdom.
It is recognised as a mark of advanced knowledge in a particular subject.
Most PhD's take three to four years of full-time study.
This can vary depending on the field of research and the individual's progress.
During a PhD students will conduct original research.
This is under the guidance of a supervisor or a team of academic advisers.
PhD students will normally write a thesis or dissertation based on their research findings.
They must defend their research in front of an examination committee (this oral test is called a viva ).
The thesis is assessed, and if it meets the required academic standards, the candidate is awarded a PhD degree.
Discover the options for finding a PhD, when to apply and how to make a successful application.
Find out about the funding options for a PhD and how to apply for them.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/further-study/phd/finding-and-applying:
The process of applying for a PhD is different to other university courses.
In this section you'll find out how to apply and where to find a PhD.
PhD applications are different to other university degrees.
You don't apply in the same way as you do for other courses.
When applying for a PhD there are two main options:
Application rules and methods vary for each university.
Make sure to check for the institution you are interested in.
You can apply for more than one PhD, but the number you can apply for in a year will vary between different universities.
You'll normally need to submit a tailored research proposal or personal statement for each application.
You can also apply to different universities.
This may improve your chances of getting onto to a PhD.
Each PhD will have specific entry requirements.
Applicants should always check the specific entry requirements online before applying.
You will usually need at least an upper second-class undergraduate honours degree (2:1).
International students will need an equivalent international qualification.
For some PhDs you may need a Master’s qualification, and you may need to attend an interview.
International students may also need proven language ability.
This will vary across institutions.
Check what level your university expects before applying.
Application timings will depend on when your term start date is.
Many research degrees start in September.
Some will begin in January or May.
Some PhD positions and funding opportunities are available to apply for year-round.
However, most UK PhD application deadlines are between late December and mid-January.
This is because of deadlines set by UKRI Research Council funding bodies.
Most students will begin work on their application in the autumn.
Completing an application and/or writing a research proposal will take time.
We recommend you don’t leave it until the last minute!
UK applicants will usually need to apply at least one month before the course start date.
International applicants will often need to apply at least three months ahead.
External organisations may also have different deadlines for funding applications.
You will need time to research your funding options.
Make sure you know how long the funding application process takes.
Most universities will advertise PhD opportunities in their website.
You can check the websites of any universities that have a relevant department.
The following external websites also advertise PhD opportunities:
For an advertised PhD, you won't usually need to submit a research proposal.
The broad aims and objectives for your PhD will already be set.
If you're choosing your own research topic within a university's PhD programme, you will need to write a proposal.
Research proposals need be persuasive.
Potential supervisors and funders will need to believe your work is worth supporting.
A research proposal usually:
Check any guidelines offered by your chosen institution.
These can vary and include word limits, suggested structure etc.
We offer feedback on applications for postgraduate study but can’t do so for research proposals.
We advise seeking guidance from a prospective supervisor or other academic related to your chosen field, before submitting your proposal.
The following websites offer advice on putting together a research proposal:
Some universities provide examples of research proposals for specific subjects.
You will need to begin by identifying universities that offer the specialism that you want to research.
A PhD supervisor is an academic who to uses their expertise to support you with your project.
They should have interest in your project and provide regular feedback on your work.
Each person's supervision experience depends on their university, department, and personal preferences.
An advertised funded PhD will usually have a supervisor allocated.
If you want to propose your own area of research, you will need to write a research proposal and find a supervisor.
Your supervisor will:
Your supervisor won’t be an expert in your exact topic.
If they were, you couldn’t research it as an original PhD.
Some universities formalise these commitments in a research degree handbook.
Other universities leave the specific details to the student and supervisor to arrange.
Some universities have a database that you can search for supervisors.
This can be helpful if you want to propose your own research topic.
Otherwise, your university may match you with a supervisor during your application assessment.
Sometimes they will use a summary of your academic interests to match you to a supervisor.
It is possible to request supervision by a particular member of academic staff.
Be aware that the university will consider this but may not accept your request.
Carry out research to find a potential supervisor who matches your research area:
You can check academics online profiles to find out about their doctoral supervision capacity:
It may also be possible to study your PhD by distance learning.
This would mean you’d learn online, and your supervisor meetings would be virtual.
Find out more about finding a supervisor below:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/further-study/phd/funding:
In the UK, a PhD can be a funded or self-funded programme.
There are three main types of funding arrangements for PhDs:
Your situation may change during your PhD.
It's possible to begin as a self-funded student and win funding later.
There won’t usually be an application fee for PhDs but there are tuition fees.
PhD fees in the UK range from £4,500 to £35,000 per year depending on your nationality.
UK students pay an average of £4,500 per year in PhD fees.
International students pay a lot more.
International PhD fees in the UK can be as high as £20,000-£35,000 per year.
You’ll also need to factor in living costs, though there are funding routes you can apply for to help with this.
Although A PhD can be expensive, it can give you educational, career and personal benefits.
It's worth weighing up whether these benefits are worth the financial commitment.
We can talk to you about whether this is the right option for you.
The admissions office for your PhD should be able to tell you if there are any studentships available.
Studentships vary between institutions and departments.
They sometimes offer a maintenance grant and/or payment of tuition fees.
Studentships are usually offered for very specific research projects at both PhD and Master's level.
Studentships at Newcastle are advertised on the individual school or institute's pages .
Ask the admissions office if there are research assistantships available within the department.
These are salaried positions within the department.
The work could be registered for a higher degree, or you could be given time to pursue your studies.
Conditions and salary vary, so find out exactly what your duties will involve.
• FindAPhD - details of studentships • jobs.ac.uk - PhD studentship information
If you are eligible, you could get student finance in the form of a Postgraduate Doctoral Loan.
This can help with course fees and living costs.
It doesn’t usually cover the full cost of a PhD.
You can apply for a Postgraduate Doctoral Loan in any year of your course.
But if you apply after your first year, you might not get the full amount.
The amount you’ll get is not based on you or your family’s income.
The loan is paid directly to you.
You can apply for grants from charities and trusts.
Some PhD candidates begin by applying to charities and trusts that have an interest in their area of research.
This could include medical research or education for example.
Often the funding is in smaller amounts, but you can apply to more than one charity or grant making trust at a time.
Find a PhD has a guide on funding a PhD through charity and trust funding .
You can find details of charities and grant making trusts in the following publications from the Robinson Library:
Some PhD students complete a part time PhD and part time work at the same time.
Some universities offer part time teaching positions which you can do alongside your research.
You could gain funding from a company who has an interest in your research.
Current employees may be funded to pursue research that supports the commercial objectives of the company.
Some banks offer postgraduate or professional study loans.
Each individual bank will have their own terms and conditions so it is worth comparing options before committing to one lender.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/further-study/teacher-training:
Find out about how to apply for teacher training.
This includes the application process, how to gain work experience, interviews and funding.
There are a number of routes you can take to train as a teacher in England and Wales.
All courses lead to Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) but not all courses lead to a Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) .
You can find out more about routes into teaching in our Teaching in Schools section.
The section includes information on the roles available and how to find jobs.
Gain valuable experience and insights into the role of a teacher.
Follow our guide for applying for teacher training, including advice on writing your personal statement.
Prepare for your teacher training interview and practice answering questions.
Discover the different ways you can receive funding to cover teacher training costs.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/further-study/teacher-training/applications:
Find information to help with the application process for teacher training, including how to research courses, when to apply and how to complete your personal statement.
Make sure you research the courses and training providers you're interested in so that you choose the right one for you.
The following websites can help with this research:
If you are unsure which option to choose, book an appointment with a Careers Consultant through MyCareer .
See teaching in schools in our Occupations site to find out more about the different routes into teaching and visit the individual websites for more information on the application process.
Applications usually open in October for entry the following year.
The steps below outline the process for applying for postgraduate teacher training programmes.
Use the search tool on the GOV.UK site to find teacher training programmes in England.
Search for courses in Scotland and Wales through UCAS .
Read course information carefully and research the training provider.
See our information above about researching courses .
Training providers keep their applications open until they are full, so it's important to apply early for popular courses.
Check the work experience requirements for individual training programmes to make sure you meet their criteria.
See the information on our School-based work experience section for more advice on finding relevant work experience.
Create your personal statement .
See our information below on how to write an effective personal statement, and how to get feedback.
Choose your references .
You will need to provide details of two people.
If you are still a registered student or if you graduated in the last 5 years you will need to include an academic reference.
Contact your referees in advance to ask if they are happy to provide a reference.
The Get into Teaching website has more information on references.
For teacher training in England , applications are made through the Apply for teacher training service on GOV.UK.
You can apply for up to four training programmes in each round of applications.
Training providers have 40 working days to respond to your application.
If you are unsuccessful in your first round of applications, you can apply again to another four training programmes.
Applications in Scotland or Wales are made through UCAS .
Interviews can take place as early as November.
The process will vary depending on the training provider, but you will be given a description of what to expect in your invitation to interview.
It's really important that your personal statement is relevant and effective .
Your personal statement is your chance to explain why you want to teach, your commitment to the profession and why you would be a good teacher.
If you have had some work experience in a school, you should include what you observed and learned during your time in the classroom.
You should also include any other experience you have had of working with children or young people.
The format of the personal statement is different on GOV.UK and UCAS.
Your personal statement should be between 500 and 1000 words.
You should aim to include:
The Get into Teaching service advise that 90% of successful applicants write more than 500 words.
Attention to detail is important.
Make sure that you check your spelling and grammar before submitting.
The UCAS personal statement should be at least 1,000 characters long and no longer than 4,000 characters or 47 lines.
UCAS recommends drafting your application in Microsoft Word (or similar software) and pasting it into your application as the application doesn’t have a spell check.
See the UCAS website for more information.
The following external websites provide advice on the application process:
You can get advice on your application from a teaching adviser through the Department for Education’s Get into Teaching service.
We can give you feedback on your statement in an online or in-person appointment .
Log into MyCareer , click on 'Book', then 'Appointments' and use our Appointment Finder to book the right appointment type for you.
You can also send your personal statement (preferably in Microsoft Word) to us for written feedback.
This can take up to 5 working days.
Click on Queries/CV in MyCareer (top right hand corner) to submit your query and CV.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/further-study/teacher-training/work-experience:
Gaining experience before applying for teacher training is important.
Being able to reflect on experience and observations will support your application.
Experiencing life in a school will also help you decide if a career in teaching is really for you.
It can also help you to decide on the ages, or year groups, you would like to teach.
Some training providers ask for up to two weeks school work experience before you apply.
Check with the training provider as requirements can vary.
You could complete the work experience in a one or two-week block during vacation period, or half a day a week over a longer period of time.
Ideally your school work experience should be in a state school and in a different school to the one you attended.
You could arrange experience in primary and secondary if you are not sure which stage you want to teach.
You should use your work experience to gain an insight into school life, including:
It can be time consuming to arrange work experience, so allow plenty of time before making your teacher training application.
There are a number of ways to find work experience in a school, including:
You can also make speculative applications directly to schools – where possible to a named contact.
For more advice, see TargetJobs' article: Making speculative applications for graduate jobs .
Use the school directory on the Gov.uk website or the HMC website (for independent schools) to identify schools.
Gaining experience with young people, outside a classroom can also be extremely valuable.
However, it should not be a substitute for school-based experience.
Explore Learning is a national network of learning centres, providing maths and English tuition to five to 14-year-olds.
Go Volunteer , organised through Newcastle University Students’ Union, regularly has education-based volunteering opportunities.
You could gain paid experience of working with young people as a FutureMe mentor.
You will deliver structured online academic activities or face-to-face mentoring sessions.
You could also be a Street Scientist , explaining science to all ages at festivals, community events and in the city centre.
You could volunteer for an organisation such as Scouts or Girlguiding , supporting children and young people to take part in new activities and build skills.
The Brilliant Club provides researchers with experience in schools through the Scholars Programme .
PhD tutors deliver workshops in schools and facilitate university trips.
Education-based opportunities are also regularly advertised on MyCareer .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/further-study/teacher-training/interviews:
Many training providers invite candidates to a selection day, which includes a number of activities and an interview.
Our information and resources can help you prepare.
Before your interview, or selection day, you will need to make sure you have done some research on the education sector.
Research should include the latest government legislation and the national curriculum.
You can also focus on current topical issues that could impact on the classroom.
The following resources will help with this research:
You should also spend time reflecting on:
targetjobs: What to expect from the teacher training interview and selection day provides an overview of the different elements of a selection day.
The process may include a number of activities, such as:
The interview will normally be a panel interview consisting of two or more people and will usually last from 20 minutes to an hour.
Interview questions are likely to be based on:
The following websites contain interview advice and examples of typical interview questions:
As well as an individual interview you may also be asked to deliver a presentation on a prepared topic or deliver a 10-15 minute mini lesson .
You’ll usually be given the topic or some guidelines beforehand.
You may be asked to spend some time with pupils - often an informal chat, a Q&A session or in the classroom.
You might also have to participate in a group activity with other applicants.
These are designed to assess your:
Some training providers will test your English and maths during the interview.
ICT tests may also be included.
If you are not offered a place after the interview, ask for feedback.
This will help you to address any skills gaps, or improve your interview/selection day performance.
If you need help preparing for your interview, book an appointment through MyCareer.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/further-study/teacher-training/funding:
Find out about the financial support available for teacher training in the UK.
The funding available for teacher training depends on a number of factors:
Bursaries and scholarships are available for some subjects.
The amount depends on the subject you choose to teach.
Larger amounts are available for subjects where there is a shortage of trainee teachers such as maths and sciences.
You may also be eligible for Student Finance to fund your tuition fees and living costs.
If you teach maths, chemistry, physics or languages, you could be eligible for an early career payment of between £2,000 and £5,000.
This could be in addition to a bursary or scholarship.
See the GOV.UK website for more information.
If you teach biology, chemistry, physics, computing or languages you might be able to claim money back for student loan payments.
See the GOV.UK website for participating local authorities.
In Scotland funding may be available for tuition fees through the Student Awards Agency Scotland.
In Wales you may be entitled to student finance to help cover training programme fees and living costs.
For more information about financial support for teacher training in Wales and Scotland see the UCAS website.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/further-study/medical:
Discover how to apply to medical school with guidance on course selection, work experience, application writing, interviews, tests, and financial support.
Discover how to fund different medical courses and find out more about the bursaries available to you
Medical school can be competitive.
Make your application stand out with valuable experience
See our guide to writing an application to make you stand out
Discover the different routes into studying medicine and find one that suits you
Prepare for medical schools admissions tests and find out more about bursaries to help you with funding
Learn more about the different types of interview and discover how to prepare for it

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/further-study/medical/applications:
Discover solutions to common queries regarding medical school applications.
Find advice for completing your application form and personal statement.
NHS Careers states you need to apply for medical school between 1 September and 15 October.
This is the year before the course starts.
The deadline for completing your application form is 15 October 18:00 (UK time) .
This includes the form, payment, and reference.
However, you will need to submit well before this date to give your referee time to add their reference.
Applications received after this, but before 30 June are late applications.
They will be subject to clearing.
Applications for degrees in medicine are completed through UCAS .
Search their website for courses.
If you are unable to apply online, then contact UCAS.
Stage one Newcastle University students on selected Biomedical Science courses can apply to transfer to stage one of Newcastle University’s undergraduate Medicine course.
You make your application in January.
There are a limited number of places available each year.
Students are selected on the basis of their academic performance in stage one, UCAT score, personal statement and panel interview performance.
Our School of Biomedical Science hosts talks from Medical School Admissions on the transfer process.
These take place in the autumn with dates/times advertised in the school.
Most medical schools require a 2:1 or above.
Some will accept a 2:2, but this is uncommon due to high levels of competition.
All applicants to medicine need specific health and background checks for clinical courses.
Whether this is acceptable depends on the course and the individual course provider.
For example, Newcastle Medical School's accelerated programme considers applications on an individual basis.
They do not need you to have studied a science.
If A-level chemistry is a prerequisite for your course, you could take a year out after your degree to study it.
Check the entry requirements for your chosen courses.
These are regularly updated.
Many universities have places particularly for international students, so check with individual institutions.
Most UK universities will not publish a full list of accepted international entry qualifications.
If your qualification isn't listed, contact the individual institution.
Other considerations include your entry qualifications and English language skills.
Most clinical courses have patient contact quite early on.
They need a higher level of English language than many other degrees.
Most medical degrees require an IELTS of above 7.
Details of entry requirements for medicine are available on each medical school website.
Follow our steps and see an explanation of each section of the application.
You don’t need to calculate your predicted grades.
Your referee, who should be an academic tutor, will do that for you.
You don't need to add your UKCAT/GAMSAT/BMAT scores to the qualifications section on the form.
Your scores go to the university directly.
In the education section you will need to add Newcastle University as your place of education.
You will then be able to enter the details of your degree and the modules you have studied.
You may find when trying to add an institution that 'INTO Newcastle' appears.
Please DO NOT select this.
Continue to type Newcastle University in the box and select the ‘Add school’ option that appears.
You may need to include a space after Newcastle University for this box to appear.
At Newcastle University, the institution code is: 40655.
If you are applying with a degree from a different university, you will need to check the institution code with them.
You will now be able to add your qualifications, modules and marks:
Add in all your modules and marks.
The university may look at your transcript as part of your application.
This needs to match your application details.
For the module qualification dates, semester 1 modules are 'January' and then the year.
Semester 2 modules are 'June' and then the year.
For any incomplete modules, use 'pending' as the result.
Otherwise, all your results should be listed in percentages.
Choose your reply from the drop-down list or enter your own details in the box.
Sharing that you have a disability with your course provider is generally recommended.
This question relates to supporting you in your studies.
Your offer might be subject to an occupational health assessment.
Book a guidance appointment if you want to discuss sharing information about a disability with your course provider.
(Link to booking form)
EmployAbility also offer free advice to students on sharing information about a disability.
Book an appointment to talk to us about sharing a disability.
Your fee code depends on your personal circumstances.
Check the UCAS guidelines first and check with your Local Education Authority (LEA).
Getting the fee code wrong won't impact your shortlisting.
Your referee should be someone who can comment on your academic suitability.
We recommend using your personal tutor.
If not, use an academic who knows you well, like your dissertation supervisor.
Let your referee know early that you want to apply.
They need time to reflect on the qualities you will bring.
You may also want to provide them a copy of your personal statement if you have it written.
The start of term is busy for academic staff and there may be several people asking them for a reference.
Your reference must have been added to your application by the deadline on the 15th October.
We recommend adding reference details in the UCAS hub about 4 weeks before the deadline.
This will provide your referee time to add the reference and predicted grade.
When you are add your references details you need to select the ‘Request Reference’ option.
This will send an access code to the email address you have listed for your referee.
They will then be able to access your application to add their statement and predicted grade.
You may want to email and notify your reference once you have done this so they know to look out for the email.
Remind them to check their junk folder if they haven’t received anything.
Your referee can only see the qualifications that need predicted grades.
They cannot view your full application.
Your referee can call the UCAS Teachers and Advisers Contact Team if they have any difficulties.
This is open Monday to Friday 08:00 – 18:00 (UK time).
0345 123 8001 or adviserhelp@ucas.ac.uk .
This is a priority service for teachers and advisers.
Once the referee has completed the reference, UCAS will notify you.
You will not be able to see the reference.
The UCAS form only allows you to add one referee.
You can ask course administrators if you can email them another one, if you think it will enhance your application.
Advice for the person writing your reference can also be found on the UCAS website .
Alongside showing academic ability, your personal statement allows you to reflect on work experience.
It should show you have the skills required for medicine.
It is important to create a strong personal statement that stands out.
This is because at some stage, your suitability for the course will be assessed using it.
Some medical schools will use your personal statement as the basis of your interview.
Whereas others put less emphasis on its importance.
Focus on your reasons for applying.
Show how your work experience has prepared you for the course and career.
Include supporting information, such as extra-curricular activities.
You have a limit of 47 lines or 4,000 characters (including spaces).
The form will cut off if you go over the limit.
Leave room for breaks between paragraphs if possible.
Personal statements are often very descriptive or list candidates’ experience.
The selectors aren’t only interested in what you’ve seen.
They want to know what you learned.
For example:
Be specific.
Talking clearly about your experiences should convey your enthusiasm.
Don’t say ‘I have always longed to be a doctor’ but say ‘I have wanted to be a doctor since I was 11, after my experience of....’
If you don’t know how to express why you want to be a doctor, it can help to ask "Why not?":
These mistakes can make your statement less effective.
Try not to be:
As a Newcastle University student or recent graduate , you can get Careers Service feedback on your personal statement.
You might also get feedback from your personal tutor, if they’re willing.
All our careers consultants have experience of personal statements for medicine.
The Careers Service does not check grammar or proof read.
Please see the Academic Skills Team for advice on using grammar and punctuation.
They do not offer a proof reading service.
When to accept an offer and what to do if you are unsuccessful.
With UCAS applications, universities don't know where else you have applied.
The form that each university receives only includes information about the course/s you have applied for at their university.
If you have applied for two courses at the same university then they will know which two courses.
They won't know where else you have applied.
This is unless you mention it in your personal statement or it gets mentioned in your reference.
If you’ve had an offer, but are still waiting to hear back from your first choice, you will need to continue to wait.
You can only reply when you've received all your decisions.
See UCAS advice on replying to your offers for details.
You will need to wait until the following year to reapply.
Reflect on your last application.
Consider whether any of your skills need further development.
Use this analysis to inform your choices.
Consider applying for related jobs during that year.
For example, you could work in practice administration, as a healthcare assistant or a hospital porter.
You could also apply for jobs outside healthcare and continue volunteering or work shadowing in your spare time.
Book an appointment with us for more help.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/further-study/medical/admissions-tests:
Find out about admissions tests for medical school and our GAMSAT bursary.
Some medical schools need you to sit an entry exam, particularly for graduate entry.
You will need to investigate this before applying.
You usually need to register and complete admissions tests by a specific date.
Check with the university you want to apply to which admissions test they use.
It is likely to be one of the following:
After taking the right test, your score is sent directly to the universities you have applied to.
Check with individual courses, but it is rare for any of them to offer financial support due to the large volume of applicants.
The UCAT offers bursaries, but eligibility criteria apply.
Our GAMSAT bursary award has information on our available funding and criteria.
The threshold is likely to change every year for admissions test scores.
The performance of the applying cohort as a whole changes every year.
Thresholds vary depending on the number of applicants, and their average score.
Any national changes in scoring will also change thresholds for individual universities.
Some universities do publish information on previous years applications.
For example Newcastle University give previous UCAT score thresholds and admissions.
While the score is usually the main criteria used to shortlist for interview, it is not the only criteria.
Many universities take account of contextual information.
This is intended to help widen access and encourage participation in medicine by students from all backgrounds, .
The threshold may also vary for applicants who fulfil certain criteria.
Our Recruitment Tests page has general recruitment tests.
These can be helpful for certain sections of the admissions test.
It can help to work through some practice tests online, so you know what to expect.
Even 10 minutes preparation a day can help your performance.
The following resources can be helpful when preparing for admissions tests:
You can buy books or even go on courses to practice, but some medical schools feel the courses aren’t worth the money.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/further-study/medical/interviews:
It is likely that you will take part in an interview for medical school, and preparation is essential.
Find out more about interviews for medical school.
The medical school interview process varies between institutions.
Some medical schools don't interview.
Some interview a few candidates and some interview everyone.
Medical schools use different kinds of interviews to evaluate candidates.
They want to see evidence that you:
During your application, you may encounter one or all the following types of medical interview.
Read on for information on the different type of medical school interview.
The majority of UK medical schools use Multiple Mini Interviews (MMIs).
They involve moving around ‘stations’ with different assessors at each.
Station assessments can involve discussing personal statements and experience.
This is like a more traditional interview.
You will also have practical activities, such as interacting with an actor who might be acting out a clinical or ethical scenario.
You may need to solve a problem or carry out a reading task.
You are usually briefed before the MMI on what to expect and given an opportunity to ask questions.
The medical school's website may have information is available about each station.
You could also contact the medical school to ask.
MMIs are a real test of your communication and interpersonal skills.
You need to make a good impression at every station.
The traditional interview involves questions about your application.
They will ask your reasons for wanting to study medicine.
On average, the interviews last about 20–30 minutes and there will usually be a panel of two or three assessors.
They may or may not have seen your application.
The interviewers may not all be medics.
They may include lay members, university staff and current medical students.
It’s important to pay attention to all panel members.
Each assessor will grade your performance and complete an assessment form.
These grades are used as the basis for the decision-making process for actual offers.
These are like a traditional and panel interviews.
The difference is that you will be in a group setting.
You are likely to have a topic to discuss with your group in front of the interviewers.
You will then move on to the traditional interview.
The interview process can differ at each institution.
See some examples below, or contact the school directly to find out more.
If you applied for both an accelerated and an undergraduate medicine course at Newcastle, you might have one interview for both courses.
This can result in two offers.
The interviewers might decide that you are unsuited to the demands of the accelerated course.
They may though, still consider you for the undergraduate programme.
The interview selectors come from a diverse variety of backgrounds and experience.
They could be NHS health professionals, current intercalating students or lay people.
Selectors receive interview training before the interviews as well as equality and diversity training.
The interview process is different for applicants who are home and those who are international (for fees purposes).
However, the same competencies, aptitude and qualities are assessed in both types of interviews.
For home applicants the interview is usually a Multiple Mini Interview (MMI) format.
This involves separate stations.
Applicants meet are assessed and graded by different selectors.
These are the competencies they are looking for:
Each station session is seven minutes long.
There is an extra two-minute ice breaker question in the first station.
One of the stations involves a role-play scenario.
International applicants are assessed at a panel interview involving two selectors .
For convenience, this can be carried out via Zoom in the applicant's home country.
If international applicants prefer to visit the university, they can have their panel interview on campus.
The competencies above are assessed and graded by selectors during interview.
Find out more about Newcastle’s selection process.
Interviews at Oxford and Cambridge (an ‘ Oxbridge interview ’) are very different.
They focus on how you think, your scientific knowledge and your problem solving.
They especially want to see how you respond when you don’t immediately know the answer.
Find example typical ‘Oxbridge’ questions at The Medic Portal.
The Medical Schools Council – has information about the types of interview used by UK medical schools.
Many institutions will offer advice on their own selection and interview process.
Sometimes this is very in-depth, including previous questions asked, others give little detail.
The type of interview may also differ for UK and international applicants.
Check the course website for the course you are applying to for specific information.
We recommend the following when preparing for your medical school interview:
Many medical schools ask ethical questions.
Ethical medical school questions get you to apply your ethics to a situation.
They assess the moral considerations doctors apply when making medical decisions.
Ethical questions can be very difficult as there is no one right answer.
These are our tips for answering ethical questions:
The following resources give typical medical school interview questions and advice on answering:
The Medic Portal guidance on interviews and example questions database includes:
For more advice see Interviews and Assessment Centres .
You might find the following useful for your interview preparation research:
If you have a medical school interview lined up , we may be able to offer an interview coaching session.
Go to MyCareer to book an appointment.
We can help you to prepare for your interview.
We can also book your interview coaching session if there is availability.
If no interview coaching sessions are available you can book a guidance appointment on MyCareer .
Here you can practise answering typical medical school interview questions with a careers consultant.
The Careers Service has rooms available for telephone or video interviews.
These are subject to availability .
Rooms in King’s Gate are available Monday to Friday, 09:00 – 17:00 only.
If you need a room, call into the Careers Service, Level 1, King’s Gate to arrange one.
Otherwise you can contact us , providing as much detail as possible.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/further-study/medical/financial-support:
Find out about the funding available to study medicine.
Funding entitlement to study medicine varies depending on your personal circumstances.
This includes where you live in the UK and if you have already have a degree.
Students on General Medical Council approved courses may be eligible for financial help from the NHS.
Eligibility criteria applies.
Contact the institution to find out if the course you are applying to is an approved course.
Several universities also offer an alumni discount .
Check with your institution.
The NHS provide the following information on funding for medical school .
Undergraduate students on standard five-year courses can apply for student loans from Student Finance England.
This is for maintenance and tuition fees in the first four years.
From year five onwards, NHS Student Bursary Scheme pays tuition fees.
Undergraduate students can apply for a means-tested NHS bursary, and a reduced maintenance loan from Student Finance England.
Undergraduate students will also have access to a non-means tested grant as part of their NHS Bursary award.
Funding for graduate medical students on a five-year undergraduate/standard course is different.
For the first four years of the course, they are not eligible for a loan for tuition fees or a maintenance grant.
This is regardless of whether they have received funding before.
Graduate students may be able to apply for a full, income based, maintenance loan from Student Finance England.
Other sources of support are available, including professional and career development loans.
Graduate students on a graduate/accelerated course will have to self-fund part of their tuition fees in the first year.
After that the NHS bursary will pay part of their fees.
A partial Student Finance England loan is available in year one of the graduate programme.
A tuition fee loan is also available for years two to four.
You may also be able to take out a living cost loan from Student Finance England.
For more details see Financial support for medical and dental students | Health Careers

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/further-study/medical/experience:
Gaining relevant experience is a key part of your application to medical school.
Relevant experience is essential for applying to medical school.
You will need to be able to show how you have developed interpersonal skills.
You'll also need to understand what makes good patient care.
Patients often feel vulnerable, angry or distressed, and you’ll need to know how to respond.
However, your experience doesn't have to be shadowing a doctor or in a clinical setting.
You also need to keep up-to-date with developments in healthcare through the press.
You could start by looking at:
If you gained related experience while at school, you’ll need to get more recent experience.
This will reflect your continued dedication to the profession.
If your experience was overseas, you usually need to gain UK-based experience too.
You’ll need a good understanding of the NHS.
This is particularly true for accelerated/graduate entry courses.
It helps then, to get experience within the UK system.
The following give more information on what is seen as relevant experience.
See our Healthcare page Gaining Experience section for more relevant opportunities.
Many medical school applicants volunteer in healthcare or take part-time care work roles.
This involves contact with vulnerable people of different ages.
It also exposes you to challenging situations.
Care work gives you an understanding of people ‘in crises’ outside traditional healthcare settings.
This could be with, for example, the elderly, homeless or at-risk people.
Care work can develop your listening, empathy and communication skills.
This can enable you be a more effective practitioner.
Examples of relevant experience in a medical or health related field include:
Find paid opportunities on the following sites:
You can find relevant voluntary experience at:
Some volunteering opportunities are available in the NHS.
Contact NHS Trusts to find out what is available or see links below for opportunities in the North East.
Our Volunteering pages also have opportunities and organisations offering overseas projects.
There is usually a cost involved in these.
An online search will also bring up many more organisations.
We recommend doing your research before handing over any money.
Listed below are work experience, volunteering, and shadowing opportunities we are aware of.
These are from local health providers.
Other local GP practices and NHS trusts may offer extra opportunities.
Clinical pressures and COVID19, means some Trusts are not accepting work experience applications.
Make sure you check details and eligibility criteria , as these are subject to change.
Shadowing health professionals can provide valuable experience.
You will be observing rather than conducting patient interactions or procedures.
Making contacts gives suggestions of potential contacts to approach.
NHS service search tool details local health teams you could contact about shadowing.
Hospitals sometimes offer shadowing.
Pressures on staff mean that they can’t always provide the level of supervision to meet demand.
Placements may only last a few days and sometimes take place in term-time.
Some hospitals have a specific staff member who deals with placements.
If so, they will prefer that you didn’t contact consultants directly.
Check the hospital / NHS Trust website for information.
If you can't find this information, ring the hospital switchboard.
Ask to speak to the placement co-ordinator.
Taking part in other experiences such as those listed below can be valuable.
You can include them in your application.
It is how you reflect on these experiences and communicate this that is important.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/further-study/medical/finding-a-course:
To train as a doctor, you will need to take a degree at medical school.
Find out about the routes you can take and how to find a medical degree that suits you.
There are several routes into medical school.
Almost all UK medical schools routes require applications from graduates to be through UCAS.
Applicants may list up to four choices of medicine courses.
Applicants can use their one remaining choice to select a non-medicine programme.
There is no order of preference recorded.
For more details see UCAS .
As a graduate you can apply to enter a undergraduate or a non-accelerated medical course.
These are usually five years long, but in some institutions it is six.
It can have different abbreviations, such as MBBS or MBChB, but all result in the bachelor’s degree in medicine.
This route is also sometimes called standard entry medicine.
The funding available for undergraduate entry is different if this is your second degree.
The accelerated/graduate entry course is for graduates and is more demanding than the undergraduate route.
It usually takes four years.
The equivalent of the first two years of a five-year undergraduate course are compressed into one year.
This means longer hours and shorter holidays.
Not all medical school offer the four-year course.
You can search for them using the NHS website .
Funding for the programmes varies.
There is more financial support for the accelerated/graduate entry course.
The accelerated/graduate entry course is very competitive.
We recommend applying to at least one undergraduate course.
This will depend on your own circumstances.
Book an appointment to discuss your options.
You can search for a medical degree using Medical school courses | Health Careers - a NHS list of accredited courses.
When you are choosing your course you should consider teaching styles (eg.
problem-based learning, case based and enquiry based)
The Medic portal has more on teaching styles.
You should also consider entry requirements and quality of life.
If you can, visit the area where you’ll be studying.
You’ll usually be living in or around the city for at least four years so make sure it is where you want to be.
For more information on considerations when choosing a course see our postgraduate study pages .
To find out more about what a career in medicine involves, visit Healthcare .
If you need help deciding if medicine is for you or with choosing a course book an appointment.
Many medical schools around the world specialise in teaching international students.
Some of these universities' graduates work in the UK healthcare sector.
Often they may have considerable experience abroad as well as their studies.
There are a lot of factors to consider if you are thinking of studying medicine overseas.
This includes the cost of study, entry requirements, languages you speak, and whether your medical degree is recognised in the UK.
This is an important consideration when studying medicine abroad if you want to work in the UK afterwards.
Check with the General Medical Council about recognition of non-UK medicine degrees.
Their website also has information on overseas qualifications that they will accept.
General advice on overseas study includes:
If you’re thinking of studying medicine abroad, you can book an appointment.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/further-study/dental:
Find out about applying to dental school including how to gain experience, the application process and financial support.
Applying to dental school is extremely competitive.
Work experience or shadowing is essential for all dentistry courses.
Find out how the application process to dental school works.
Writing a strong personal statement will help you to secure an interview.
Most UK dental schools will require you to take an admissions test.
Find out more to help you prepare.
The type of interview you have will depend on the institution you are applying to.
Find out about the financial support available to dental students.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/further-study/dental/financial-support:
See the Dental Surgery course page for information about tuition fees for the course at Newcastle University.
Check with your course providers about their fees and the support available.
Funding entitlement to study dentistry varies depends on:
Students on dentistry degrees recognised by the General Dental Council may be eligible for financial help from the NHS for a part of their course.
Eligibility criteria also apply.
Contact your chosen institution to find out if the course you are applying to is an approved course and attracts NHS financial support.
Dentistry students whose country of residence is England may be supported with some of their fees through the NHS Bursary Scheme during the later stages of their training.
See Health Careers for the support available for dental students living in Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland .
Several universities also offer an alumni discount.
Check with your current institution.
Other sources of support are available, visit Funding Further Study for more information.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/further-study/dental/interviews:
All UK dental schools invite shortlisted candidates to an interview.
Preparing effectively is essential.
Getting into dental school can be very competitive.
Preparing for your interview can help to calm your nerves and put your best self forward.
Dental schools use different kinds of interviews to evaluate candidates.
During your application process, you may encounter one or all of types of interview.
They want evidence that:
The main types of interview for dental school are:
Multiple Mini Interviews (MMIs) are used by the majority of UK dental schools.
They involve moving around a number of ‘stations’ with different assessors at each.
Some stations may look like a more traditional interview, where you dicsuss your personal statements and experience.
You will also have more practical activities, such as interacting with an actor who might have a clinical or ethical problem.
You may need to solve a problem, carry out a reading task or complete an exercise to test your manual dexterity.
Before the MMIs, you will usually be briefed on what to expect and you'll have the opportunity to ask questions.
It is worth researching online or contacting the dental school before an MMI to find out information about each station.
MMIs are a real test of your communication and interpersonal skills as you need to make a good impression at every station.
The traditional interview involves being asked questions about your application and your reasons for wanting to study dentistry.
The interviewers may not all be dentists.
Instead, there may be lay members, university staff and current dental students.
TARGETjobs gives more advice on handling panel interviews .
At the end of the interview, each assessor will grade the candidate’s performance and complete an assessment form.
These grades are used as the basis for the decision making process for actual offers.
Interviews for dentistry at Newcastle University follow the format of a panel interview.
The interview lasts approximately 20 minutes and is led by two selectors.
During the interview selectors will consider if you have the aptitude, motivation and personal qualities to succeed as a dental student and future dental professional.
At interview applicants are assessed on:
Additional information on the interview process can be found in the School of Dental Sciences Admissions Policy (PDF).
The British Dental Association (BDA) lists the UK's dental schools.
Many institutions will offer advice on their own interview process.
Sometimes this is very in depth, but others give little detail.
We’ve listed information below but make sure you check the institution’s website for specific details.
Manual dexterity may be tested at interview.
Dentists need to be able to skilfully carry out complex tasks using coordinated hand movements.
To assess manual dexterity dental schools might ask you to:
Develop your manual dexterity by practising hobbies which need precise and coordinated hand movements.
These may be a musical instrument, needlework and model making.
See Medic Portal’s article on how to show manual dexterity in your dental school application for more advice.
Remember interviews can be conducted by a range of professionals, from actors to teaching staff, not only dentists.
Avoid using very technical terms as you may have more clinical knowledge that those assessing you.
The following resources give more advice on the interview process and typical questions:
For more advice see Interviews and Assessment Centres.
If you have an interview date in place, we may be able to offer an interview coaching session with a careers consultant.
To arrange this go to MyCareer and arrange a bookable Information appointment to speak to an information adviser.
They will help you prepare for your interview.
They can book your interview coaching session.
We run interview workshops and employers on campus frequently run skills sessions for students, including sessions on interview techniques.
The Careers Service has rooms available for current students and registered graduates who need to take part in a telephone, Skype or video interview, subject to availability .
If you require a room, please call into the Careers Service, Level 1, King’s Gate to arrange or contact us , providing as much detail as possible.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/further-study/dental/admissions-tests:
Most UK dental schools require you to sit an admissions test.
Find out how to best prepare.
You normally need to register and complete your admissions test by a specific date.
Universities often request that you complete the test within the year of application.
We would recommend checking with individual dental schools.
Admission tests used by dental schools are normally one of the following:
For the most up to date information check with each individual dental school which test they use.
The tests are designed so you can’t revise for them.
You can do practice tests online, so you know what to expect.
University Clinical Aptitude Test (UCAT) has tips and practice material to help you prepare.
This includes an official guide‌, which has vital information.
There are also key dates and more than 100 test items.
Their YouTube channel has advice from past candidates.
There is also a playlist of admissions videos from a variety of universities.
You can practice general aptitude tests for free on our Recruitment Tests page.
This might help for certain sections of the admissions test.
Check with individual courses, but financial support for completing the tests is unlikely.
Many universities don’t reveal the UCAT threshold.
The thresholds can change every year.
This is because the overall performance of the applying cohort changes each year.
The UCAT score can be a main criteria for shortlisting for interview.
However, it is not normally the only criteria.
Your personal statement and qualifications are also important.
The UCAT is not negatively marked (where marks are deducted for incorrect answers).

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/further-study/dental/personal-statement:
A strong personal statement is important for a successful application.
Some dental schools will use your personal statement as the basis of your interview.
Others put less emphasis on its importance.
However, it is likely to be used to assess your suitability for the course at some stage.
In addition to your academic capability, it gives you the opportunity to reflect on what you’ve learned from work experience.
It demonstrates you have the personal skills required for dentistry.
Leave room for breaks between paragraphs.
Try to avoid these mistake commonly made on personal statements.
Say what you learned, not just what you saw or enjoyed.
Talk clearly about your experiences to highlight your enthusiasm.
Instead of saying ‘I have always longed to be a dentist’, say ‘I have wanted to be a dentist since I was 11, after my experience of....’
If you don’t know how to express why you want to be a dentist, ask yourself ‘Why not?’
Why do you want to be a dentist and not a doctor?
What is the difference between the roles?
What does the first role provide that the second doesn’t?
Try to be as specific as you can.
In an example about shadowing, instead of saying 'the dentist’s empathy skills calmed the patient down', be more focused.
What did the dentist do specifically?
Was it their tone of voice?
Or their body language?
Highlight that you understand the realities of dentistry.
Words like ‘enlightened’, ‘privileged’ and ‘longed’ are too romantic for a personal statement.
Your statement should follow a logical structure.
You don’t need to give the names of specific practitioners, hospitals, practices or procedures.
Instead focus on what you learned about the profession and quality patient care.
Give examples of this throughout your personal statement.
As a Newcastle University student or registered recent graduate , you can get feedback on your personal statement from the Careers Service.
All our careers consultants have experience of personal statements for dentistry.
Book an online or in person guidance appointment via MyCareer , or use the Careers Service drop-in service to get statement feedback.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/further-study/dental/applications:
Your application is an important part of getting into dental school.
Find out how to write an application that stands out.
Dental school is highly competitive to get into.
Our guide will help you understand the application process.
Applications for undergraduate degrees in dentistry are administered by UCAS.
See the UCAS Dentistry Subject Guide for more information.
Applications for dentistry should be submitted to UCAS by 15 October 2023 18:00 (UK time).
Becoming a dentist requires completing a General Dental Council (GDC) approved dental course .
The courses available are:
The DSC also produces an annual guide to entry requirements for UK dental schools , where you can find a more detailed breakdown of each programme including the qualifications, aptitude test and interview type required.
Search and apply for all dentistry courses on the UCAS website .
Stage One Newcastle University students on selected Biomedical Sciences courses can apply to transfer to stage one of Newcastle University’s Dental Surgery course.
There are a limited number of places available, which varies each year.
The School of Biomedical Science hosts talks on the transfer process.
Dates/times will be advertised in the school in stage one.
The majority of dental schools require a 2:1 for graduates entering their undergraduate dentistry course.
The University of Plymouth is the exception to this who rank graduates on GAMSAT performance over degree outcome.
Most dental schools will require your undergraduate degree to be in a course that has a large amount of biology and chemistry.
Some dental schools require this to be a life science.
All applicants to dentistry need specific health and background checks for clinical courses.
Find out more for specific dental schools one the Dental School Council website .
Some schools do not allow you to apply for dentistry without science A-Levels.
It depends on the course and course provider.
If science A-levels are necessary for your course, you could consider taking a year out after your degree to study them.
These are updated regularly.
Many universities have places specifically for international students, so check with individual institutions.
Most universities don't publish a full list of international qualifications accepted for entry onto a UK dentistry degree.
If your qualification is not listed, contact the individual institution directly to see if it is suitable.
Additional considerations include your entry qualifications and English language skills.
Most clinical courses have patient contact quite early on so require a higher level of English language than many other degrees.
Most dental degrees require an IELTS of above 7.
Full details of all entry requirements for dentistry will be on each dental school website.
The deadline for completing your application is 15 October 2023 18:00 (UK time).
This includes the application form, payment and reference.
We would recommending creating the application to request the reference as soon as possible.
This should be at a minimum 4 weeks before the deadline, in order to give your academics as much as time as possible.
You don't need to add your UCAT/BMAT scores to the qualifications section on the form.
Your scores will be sent to the university directly.
In the education section you will first need to add Newcastle University your place of education, you will then be able to enter the details of your degree and the modules you have studied.
You may find when trying to add an institution, only INTO Newcastle appears.
If you are applying with a degree from a different university then you will need to check the institution code with them.
You will now be able to add your qualifications and modules
You must add in all your modules and marks, as the university may look at your transcript as part of your application and they need to match.
For the module qualification dates, semester 1 modules are January and then the year.
Semester 2 modules are June and then the year.
For any incomplete modules, using pending as the result.
Otherwise, all your results should be in %.
Sharing that you have a disability with your course provider is recommended.
This will help the university to support you in your studies.
To discuss sharing information about a disability with a course provider, speak to a careers consultant .
If you get it wrong, it won’t affect you being shortlisted.
Let your referee know early that you want to apply, so that they have time to reflect on the qualities you will bring, you may also want to provide them a copy of your personal statement if you have it written.
Your reference must have been added to your application by the deadline on the 15 th October.
We recommend logging into your UCAS Hub and adding you references details to your application form around 3-4 weeks prior to the deadline to provide your academic time to log into your application and add the reference and predicted grade.
Make sure that when you are adding your references details you select the ‘Request Reference’ option.
This will send an access code to the email address you have listed for your reference to be able to access your application and add their statement and predicted grade.
Your referee can only see the qualifications that require predicted grades.
Your reference can call the UCAS Teachers and Advisers Contact Team if they have any difficulties accessing your application.
Monday to Friday 08:00–18:00 (UK time), they can call 0345 123 8001 or email adviserhelp@ucas.ac.uk .
However, you will not be able to see the reference.
The form that each university receives only includes information about that course at that university.
They won't know where else you have applied unless you have included the information in your personal statement or reference.
You can only reply once you've received all your decisions.
See UCAS' advice on replying to your offers for more.
Reflect on your last application and consider how to develop your skills.
Consider applying for related jobs.
This could be working as an administration assistant in a dental practice or as a healthcare assistant.
You could also apply for jobs outside healthcare and continue with voluntary work or shadowing in your spare time.
Visit us if you need support with this.
Here are some more resources to help when you are applying to dental school.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/explore-your-options/further-study/dental/experience:
It is recommended you have some dental work experience before you apply to a dentistry course.
Being able to demonstrate a clear understanding of what a dentist does is essential for all dentistry courses.
Work experience in a dental setting will help you learn more about being a dentist.
Up to two weeks is recommended.
A combination of NHS and private experience can be beneficial.
Look for shadowing opportunities within:
It is important to check with individual dental schools how much work experience they prefer.
Some schools may have stricter requirements, such as two weeks formal work experience.
Other schools, including Newcastle University, may have more relaxed requirements.
Other research about becoming a dentist may be accepted.
Examples of this can include dental observations, discussions with dentists and online courses.
However, it is still vital that you have taken significant steps to discover what being a dentist is like.
It is important to reflect on this in relation to your own career aspirations in your application.
If your experience or shadowing was gained overseas, some UK-based experience would be helpful too.
You will also need to keep up to date with dentistry and the NHS in the media:
Whilst experience in a dental environment is recommended, additional work experience is also valuable.
Working in a care environment allows you to gain experience with people of different ages and circumstances.
This includes people who are vulnerable or in distress.
This work will develop your communication skills, empathy and ability to develop rapport.
It might be useful to find experience that links into the NHS core values:
Examples of relevant experience in a health related field include:
Practices and trusts don’t usually advertise work experience.
You will need to contact them directly – where possible to a named contact.
For more advice about this, see our webpage on speculative applications.
Use the NHS or the Care Quality Commission find a dentist search tool.
This can help you find details of local health teams who you could contact about shadowing.
The School of Dental Sciences at Newcastle University may be able to help you find work experience.
It is possible to arrange a week of work experience at the Dental Hospital in Newcastle .
The University of Sheffield have developed a free online course Discover Dentistry.
This provides an introduction to the dentistry profession.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/skills-and-experience:
In this section you can find out about summer internships, year-long placements or shorter periods of experience such as insight days or shadowing.
You could also volunteer or complete virtual work experience.
Find out how to apply and access vacancy websites.
You could develop skills and experience through one of our careers modules.
Gain academic credit while volunteering, completing a placement year or in a part time job.
Spending time working or studying abroad can give you skills that are highly sought after by graduate employers.
Find out how to find opportunities and apply.
Discover the different types of work experience you can do and where you can find opportunities
Graduate with the skills employers look for.
Use your work experience, volunteering or part-time job to count towards your degree
Volunteering gives you the opportunity to make a positive impact and gain experience, while enhancing your own development
Immerse yourself in new cultures, enhance your academic profile, gain a global perspective, and create memories that will last a lifetime.
Going overseas to gain work experience is a great way to develop your skill set while immersing yourself in a different culture.
You can work, gain experience, or build skills through online activities.
Get involved with opportunities and activities outside your degree.
Develop the skills to shape your future.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/skills-and-experience/internships-placements-shadowing/insight-days:
Experience what it is like to work in a professional environment and learn about an organisation’s structure and culture through insight days.
Many large organisations offer structured insight days, or weeks.
They are typically aimed at first year students and usually take place over Easter or summer.
Insight days are sometimes given different names.
You might see them advertised as spring weeks (in the banking sector).
It’s possible to gain insights into working in Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SME).
This is more likely to be through arranging work shadowing.
Insight days can help you to:
Insight days don’t tend to be paid, as you’re not employed, or completing significant work for the organisation.
However, they usually cover expenses such as travel and lunch.
Opportunities which last a week or longer are more likely to offer payment.
Applications for insight days tend to open in September and some may still be available up to March.
Opportunities with large companies can be competitive and will close early in some sectors, particularly banking.
See our applications section for advice on how to write an effective CV, covering letter and application form.
Find opportunities on these websites:
If you can't find insight days advertised in your area of interest, try arranging work shadowing instead.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/skills-and-experience/internships-placements-shadowing/unpaid-experience:
We don't advertise unpaid internships.
However, there are some sectors where unpaid internships are common.
It can be difficult to get graduate jobs in some areas of work without having unpaid experience.
It's important to understand your employment rights.
Many unpaid internships are illegal and should be paid.
You can apply for support with the costs of unpaid or low paid work experience through the Make it Happen Fund .
Funding covers travel or accommodation expenses that are not reimbursed by the employer.
Certain sectors may offer research scholarships which can fund summer internships.
For example, Newcastle University offers funding for summer research .
Some graduate recruiters also offer competitions for paid work experience.
To find information about work experience options in specific sectors, see Explore Occupations .
You may have questions about your employment or payment rights.
Gov.uk sets out legislation, payment entitlement, and sources of further help.
They also offer a guide to employment rights and pay for interns .
The following websites give information about unpaid work experience:
You may want to speak to a professional about your circumstances.
The following services offer free, confidential advice:
To make a complaint about not receiving National Minimum Wage, you can use the HMRC online form.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/skills-and-experience/internships-placements-shadowing/internships:
There are two common ways of finding internships.
Applying for advertised opportunities and seeking out hidden opportunities by networking and applying speculatively.
Internships provide an opportunity to gain graduate-level work experience.
They usually take place during summer vacation or term-time.
Large companies look for undergraduate students in their second, or penultimate, year of study.
They usually fill a third of their graduate vacancies with students who have done an internship or placement year with them.
Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs) also offer internships.
They may be more flexible in who they will consider.
Some internships are also open to graduates.
The two most common ways of finding internships are:
We organise NCL internships, both on campus and with SMEs in the North East.
These are available throughout the year.
Internships can help you to:
Many internships are paid or provide a bursary.
We don't advertise unpaid internships, but we offer advice on funding .
It is best to start looking as early as possible to make sure you don't miss opportunities.
Large organisations:
Small or medium sized organisations (SMEs):
Our NCL internships are advertised all year round.
See below for details.
The Careers Service organises internships for current students called NCL internships.
They can be off campus with local businesses or on campus with Newcastle University.
They are available in a range of occupational areas, from marketing and research to IT and project management.
See examples of previous NCL Internships (PDF, 163KB).
We offer internships during term-time and over summer .
Summer internships are offered on either a flexible or full-time basis.
All current undergraduate and postgraduate students are eligible to apply.
You can find full eligibility details for each individual internship on the vacancy advert.
NCL internships are advertised throughout the academic year.
Usually:
To search for opportunities , go to MyCareer.
Click on 'Search' then 'Vacancies' and type ‘NCL Internships’ in the text search box.
Use the resources below to look for advertised paid internships.
For overseas internships, see Global Work Experience .
Finding work experience in a specific sector is often arranged through making speculative applications .
Explore Occupations has resources to help you find sector specific internships.
Advertised internships are often aimed at second or penultimate year students.
If the advert doesn't specify which year groups can apply, you could contact the employer to clarify whether you are eligible, or apply anyway.
Some organisations offer insight programmes for first year students.
As well as using the other resources on this page, you could try these websites:
See finding hidden internships below for information on applying to companies directly.
If the advert doesn't state that you need to be a current student to apply, you could contact the employer to clarify eligibility, or apply anyway.
If you're a final year student, you can apply for NCL summer internships advertised on MyCareer.
They will take place the same summer you graduate.
As well as using the other resources on this page, you could try the following websites:
See finding hidden internships for information on applying to companies directly.
Not all internships are advertised.
In fact, many people create opportunities through:
To find hidden internships, start by identifying companies you would like to work for.
Our guide to finding companies below can help.
Then use the following steps to approach them speculatively about possible opportunities:
For more information read this guide from targetjobs on finding hidden internships .
Rate my Placement have a guide to The Top Undergraduate Employers , ranked by students.
Speak to your academic school to find out if they offer internships or similar schemes.
They may offer:
The Business School offer global experience internships.
They also advertise internships and placements on their Student Experience Blog .
Some student competitions offer a paid internship as a prize.
Forage offers free virtual internship programs.
These are built and endorsed by leading companies, such as KPMG, Deloitte, PwC and Unilever.
Their tasks and resources simulate the real-world experience of starting a career.
You can add them to your CV as achievements and as certificates on LinkedIn.
Forage advises not to include them in your main work experience section.
For more information about describing your experience, view Forage's Referencing Policy .
For information see the SRS guide to Everything you need to know about virtual internships (39:55)
Recruitment events are not just for graduate jobs.
Most employers at our events also offer internships.
Attend our recruitment events and employer and sector insights to:
We also list events from external organisations.
These can include opportunities to find out about work experience.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/skills-and-experience/internships-placements-shadowing/placements:
Undertake a 9-12 month work placement to accelerate your career.
A placement year can help you:
It can also be a great way to try out a career choice and consider if it’s a good fit for you in the future.
Most students can expect to:
For placement commitments and responsibilities read: The Undergraduate Placements Charter [PDF:144KB].
Depending on which course you're studying, there may be some differences around:
Use our form to find out who will support you: the Careers Service or your academic school.
Follow the steps below to get started with a Careers Service placement year:
Let us know you're interested in finding out more about placements.
Register your interest
After you've registered, we will add you to our Finding a Placement Canvas page .
You can use this to:
Start researching and applying for placements using the finding placements resources below.
You can attend events or book appointments via MyCareer for more help.
We also organise recruitment events where you can speak to employers in-person.
You can choose to do:
Placements should be full-time, or roughly 35 hours per week.
To discuss this further please contact us with more information .
Our Preparing to Find a Placement pathway can help.
You'll be guided through activities to help make sure you are ready for your placement search.
Once you have accepted a firm offer of employment, please let us know.
Tell us about your placement
The 2024/25 deadline for anyone doing an overseas placement is 31 May 2025 .
The deadline for all students with a placement in the UK is 31 July 2025 .
Before confirming that you’re able to take the Careers Service Placement Year Module, the University will need to:
While on placement, you'll have access to:
If you have any questions about the Careers Service Placement Year email us at cs.placementyear@ncl.ac.uk .
Follow the steps below to get started with a School managed placement year.
Find the relevant contact details for your school on the Who Manages My Placement Year form.
Let your School contact know you are interested in doing a placement.
Ask what is involved, eg what type of placement you can do and any module requirements.
Start looking for placements using our Finding placements resources below.
You can speak to employers in-person at our recruitment and employer and sector insight events .
Inform the relevant contact if you receive an offer.
If you have any questions about the process, please email your school contact.
International students can complete placements too.
Find out more:
Students with Student Route visas are eligible to undertake a placement year.
If you’re extending your degree programme by one year to do a placement, you’ll need to renew your visa.
For UK based placements, you can renew your visa from the UK, either before or after your placement.
Apply for the visa before starting the work placement to avoid any potential issues with your employer, or when returning to your studies.
If you plan to do your placement year outside of the UK, see the Visa Support Team guidance on adding a work placement to your programme of study .
You can read more detailed information about Work placements for students on a Student Route visa .
If you are unsure about your visa requirements, please contact the Visa Support Team .
EU Settlement Scheme holders, with either pre-settled or settled status, are eligible to undertake a placement year.
It’s not always easy to decide whether a placement year is right for you or to know which sector or role to apply for.
Use the following resources for inspiration:
If you’re curious to see where other students from your school have been on placement, you can browse our NU Work Experience Directory .
Select ‘placement’ in the ‘Type of experience’ box and then pick your school from the drop-down menu.
The data is from Newcastle University placement students from the last five years.
You can use it to see:
LinkedIn's Alumni tool allows you to see what Newcastle University graduates are doing now.
You can search for graduates who have a similar degree to you and find out:
For more information watch our Getting inspiration from others tutorial [3:13].
Our events are not just for graduate jobs.
Employers at our recruitment events and employer and sector insights also offer placement years.
Go along and find out more about their opportunities.
You can hear about placement schemes, build your network and ask questions.
Online placement year reviews can give an idea of what to expect from certain roles or employers.
Reviews are written for a range of reasons, with varied opinions around what makes a good placement year.
They can be useful for inspiration and sometimes offer insight into the recruitment process.
RateMyPlacement is a good source of placement year reviews written by students.
When looking for inspiration, consider your motivations, both personal and professional:
'I always wanted to do an industrial placement year as part of my course to really help improve my employability upon graduating and differentiate myself from all the other Chemistry graduates out there.
I also thought I might like to have a career in cosmetics so really tried to find a company that would give me a taste of that.
It's also nice to earn some money and I loved moving and living in a new place!'
– Hannah Gorman (Chemistry)
Don’t be afraid of rejection:
Don't be afraid - this could be fear of not getting in/not being good enough or thinking you are too late or even thinking there isn't an option out there for you.
I didn't intend on doing a placement year at the start of my studies so changed my mind last minute and applied to Chester Zoo within the last week before the deadline for applications and it worked out for me.
Be speculative, confident and don't be afraid of rejection – it stings a little at first, but it fades quickly, and you get back on top even quicker.
– Haydon Oates (Zoology)
Be open to the unexpected:
Do not only apply for the large companies you recognise.
There are a huge number of companies that offer placement schemes.
It can be easy to fall into the trap of applying to the big brands and being disheartened if you are unsuccessful.
Put in a few applications to companies you may not be as familiar with as once you interact with them and find out more about the scheme you could surprise yourself.
– Louise Donnely (Marketing and Management)
You may be thinking of taking a placement year, but not sure exactly what you want to do.
You can:
Applications take time and effort.
It's more effective to make a few high quality, well-tailored, applications than lots of generic ones.
80% of our current Careers Service placement students applied for between 1-20 placements before they were successful.
When and how you apply can depend on the type of role, company and sector you’re interested in.
If you miss any deadlines, don’t worry.
There are other ways to find placements throughout the year, and some employers post their opportunities later on.
A speculative approach is common for finding placements.
You can contact employers at any point in the year to ask about potential placements with them.
Use our guide below to understand how to find and approach companies for hidden opportunities .
The application process for placements varies depending on the company.
Check what’s involved before you apply.
It can start with submitting a CV and cover letter , filling in an application form or a combination of both.
Before inviting you to a final interview , many large employers may also ask you to complete:
The Careers Service can offer support at any stage of your application.
There are two main approaches when looking for placements:
This section offers resources and information to help you look for both.
Our 14 minute presentation on 'How to find a year-long placement' covers:
You can also use our Preparing to Find a Placement pathway before you begin searching.
The Careers Service advertises placements on MyCareer .
Search for ‘placement’ under ‘vacancy types’ and sign up for personalised email alerts.
You can also use the following websites to help you find a placement:
To find placements in a particular sector, visit Explore Occupations .
The Year In Industry website and Gradcracker are good starting points if you are looking for STEM placements.
For placements in finance, insurance and patents, try Inside Careers.
Check with your academic school to see if they advertise or promote opportunities.
Not all placements are advertised.
17% of our current placement students told us that they found their placement using a speculative approach.
To find hidden placements, start by identifying companies you would like to work for.
For more information read targetjobs' guide to making a speculative application .
For resources to help you find overseas opportunities , visit our Global Work Experience pages.
Finding and arranging an overseas placement year can be complicated.
Whether you can go abroad to a particular country depends on a range of factors, including:
If you’re considering doing a placement overseas, you will need to begin your research as early as possible.
To help you get started, we recommend that you:
If you’re an international student planning to do a placement in your home country, speak to the team managing your placement .
They will still need to check whether your placement can be approved.
Once you’ve confirmed your placement, the University has resources to help you prepare for working and living overseas.
The team managing your placement and Global Opportunities will offer you support throughout your time abroad.
In this section, you’ll find information about student fees and finance.
Most of our students undertake paid placements but we’ve also put together resources to help you if you’re considering an unpaid placement.
Before committing to a placement year:
You should think about your cost of living and expenses for the year.
This can differ greatly depending on whether you do your placement at home, elsewhere in the UK, or overseas.
The Student Financial Support Team have created a Placement Year Budget guide and spreadsheet.
Use this to help you work out your income and expenditure.
For more help and advice around finance and budgeting, you can book an appointment with a Student Finance Adviser.
Placement year tuition fees are the same for UK, EU and International students.
The amount you pay depends on your course start date.
For full information, visit Tuition Fees and select undergraduate placement year fees .
UK students enrolled on a placement year module should have access to a non-means tested tuition fee loan.
UK students should also be able to apply for a reduced rate maintenance loan.
By doing a placement year module, you continue to be registered as a student.
You will continue to have access to the same student discounts and benefits, including council tax exemption.
For more information, visit Student Financial Support: Placement Year .
You can also contact the Student Financial Support Team via the web enquiry form .
Most of our students get paid by their employers during their placement year.
We recommend searching for paid placements first, using the finding placements resources above.
The Careers Service does not advertise unpaid placements , or promote resources where unpaid work is commonly advertised.
However, we know that some occupational areas can be difficult to break into without first gaining experience on an unpaid basis.
For example: media, journalism, non-profit, environment and psychology
Unpaid placement years are not illegal if you are completing the work as part of your course.
See the Gov.uk Employment rights and pay for interns page for more information.
It is always important to be aware of your rights .
Unpaid work may be illegal if:
If you’re on a specific type of unpaid placement, you might be able to apply for an income-assessed maintenance loan.
Types of placements include certain roles relating to:
For more information look under the Work placement in the UK section on the Student Financial Support: Placement Year page.
If you’re unable to find a suitable paid placement in your sector, you can apply for financial support.
You could receive up to £5000 for an unpaid placement, especially if you would otherwise find it difficult to support yourself.
This application is open to UK students who have secured an unpaid year-long placement.
You can apply whether your placement is managed by the Careers Service or your academic school.
There are some exceptions, see below for eligibility criteria.
If you have secured an unpaid placement and would like to apply for funding, please fill out our placement funding form .
The deadline to apply for this funding is 30 June 2025.
You can get help with deciding whether a placement year is right for you and how to search and apply for opportunities.
Use MyCareer to book our in-person and online 1:1 appointments, submit a query or book a place at our events.
Log into MyCareer , and select one of the following options depending on the type of support you need:
If you know what type of placement you’re looking for, information advisers can help you to search for opportunities and employers.
You can also book information appointments for support with preparing for:
Careers consultants can offer guidance to support you with making choices.
Book a guidance appointment if you’re unsure:
You can also book a guidance appointment for feedback on your application forms.
If you want more information about how the placements process works, placements advisers can help.
You can also book a placement appointment for help with understanding the NCL3000 module.
Our CV advisers can offer feedback on your:
Before booking this type of appointment, first:
Please bring a printed copy of your CV or covering letter with you for an in-person appointment.
Have a copy ready on your device for an online appointment.
For written advice, please submit a query on MyCareer and an adviser will get back to you within 5 working days.
Go to the Queries/CV icon and then click on 'Submit new query/CV'.
Check out our careers and employer events for students.
These include sessions on finding placements and making applications.
Recruitment fairs are not just for graduate jobs.
Several employers at our events also offer placement years, so go along and find out more about their opportunities.
At our employer and sector insights you can hear about their placement schemes, build your network and ask questions.
Our Preparing to Find a Placement pathway will help you prepare before you begin searching and applying for placement years.
You'll be guided through activities to help get you ready.
Start using this pathway from the spring / summer before you are applying for placements.
This gives you time to work through the activities before employers start their recruitment.
Preparing to Find a Placement Pathway
Our Searching and Applying for Placements pathway can help you start your placements search.
If you’re unsure if a placement is right for you, or if you’re not sure what sectors or roles you’re interested in, the Reflect and Research sections can help.
Searching and Applying Pathway
Students who are completing a placement year managed by the Careers Service will also undertake the Careers Service Placement Year Module .
This is a 120- credit module completed over the course of the placement year (9-12 months).
It is a pass/fail module which does not count towards your final degree classification but will be acknowledged on both your degree title and transcript.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/skills-and-experience/internships-placements-shadowing/shadowing:
Observing staff in action can provide valuable insights into the realities of a specific job or sector.
Work shadowing can help you:
Work shadowing opportunities are not usually advertised.
Instead, you can approach companies directly about shadowing a member of staff, usually for a day or two.
To arrange shadowing opportunities, start by identifying companies you would like to work for.
Then use the following steps to approach them:
It may be difficult to arrange shadowing for certain roles where confidentiality or security is important.
For example, shadowing psychologists with a patient, or engineers working in defence companies.
The following resources can help you to find organisations or individuals to contact:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/skills-and-experience/graduate-framework:
Develop valuable skills and be who you want to be.
Broaden your horizons.
Shape your dreams.
Plan your future.
Being a student at Newcastle gives you access to unique and life-changing experiences.
Not only will you be a graduate of a Russell Group university, you’ll have experiences to remember, skills to demonstrate and stories to share.
You can develop graduate skills from all parts of your life.
Your studies, extracurricular activities and volunteering are just some of the opportunities available to develop your skills and prepare you for a successful future.
We want you to leave higher education feeling empowered, creative, and ready to take on the world.
We have created the Graduate Framework to help you identify and develop the key skills and attributes that can shape your future.
Our students have gone on to do some amazing things.
Many of our alumni are at the forefront of sectors as diverse as digital technology, finance, and fine art.
Discover below what each of the 12 skills mean and how you can develop them while you’re at Newcastle.
Being collaborative is all about working well with others to achieve a shared goal.
This means taking on a role within the team, sharing responsibilities and contributing ideas.
Collaboration requires strong communication skills, flexible working, and managing conflict.
This skill features among the top competencies valued by employers.
While individuals bring their own strengths and skills, most graduate roles involve being able to work well with others.
These are just some examples of what you can do while you’re at Newcastle.
Confidence is about believing in yourself and having trust in your abilities, qualities and judgement.
It’s having a balanced view and accepting yourself: taking pride in your strengths and achievements, while also recognising your flaws.
Confidence often doesn’t come naturally.
It’s something most people have to learn and work on to improve.
This skill is about using your imagination to create and develop original methods or ideas.
It’s about being good at thinking of and doing new and sometimes challenging things.
You can be enterprising whether you work for yourself or for someone else.
It involves being resourceful, showing initiative, taking calculated risks and looking for ways to improve and develop things.
Employers value people for their ability to solve problems, identify opportunities and see things from different perspectives.
These skills can all be learned - by asking questions, trying new things, experimenting, exploring, and using your imagination.
You don’t always have to come up with a brand-new, original idea.
Many innovators take existing concepts or approaches and turn them into something new or improved.
This skill is about questioning information, evaluating it and considering whether it is accurate.
As a student, you need to be able to think critically about the resources and information you use.
It’s not accepting what you read or hear at face value.
You need to ask the right questions when reading the work of others and weigh up different arguments and perspectives.
Use evidence to help you form your own opinions, arguments, theories and ideas.
Employers also need critical thinkers in the workplace.
You need to be able to analyse information, to help you effectively diagnose problems, identify possible solutions and make balanced decisions.
People who are curious want to know more.
They’re interested in the world and society around them: how things work, what motivates people.
They like to learn and explore, and are constantly asking ‘why’?
Employers often look for applicants who have a strong desire to learn, solve problems, ask questions and who are open to change.
Being digitally capable is about being able to learn, work and live in our increasingly digital society.
There’s a lot more to this than being able to use certain software.
Technology is taking a much bigger role in both our personal and professional lives.
We've included some ideas on how to develop digital skills below.
Being engaged is all about taking part and making the most of opportunities - whether that’s being fully committed to your degree or being actively involved in extra-curricular activities.
Being future-focused is about thinking about the future, anticipating obstacles and planning ahead.
It’s keeping up-to-date with changes and developments, responding to key trends happening across the world and being able to prepare and plan for the future.
People who are future-focused are keen to learn, update their knowledge and can recover from setbacks to help them achieve their goals.
These are some examples of what you can do to become more future-focused.
Employers are increasingly looking for students and graduates who can work and communicate in a global environment.
Having this ability means you can:
Being reflective and self-aware means understanding yourself: your motivations, values, skills and strengths.
It’s also about identifying and recognising areas you need to develop and how you can improve.
These are just some examples of what you can do to become more reflective and self-aware, both in your academic life and outside university.
Resilience is about your ability to deal with and bounce back from problems and setbacks.
It’s learning through failure, as well as success.
Resilience is about being able to face your challenges and to persevere when things don't go as well as you'd planned.
It also involves accepting responsibility for your mistakes and being able to move on and adapt.
As a resilient person, you can focus your thinking and take control of each situation.
You become more able to work out what needs to be done and make best use of those around you to get there.
It's important to know the limits of your resilience and ask for support if you need to.
You need resilience most when:
These are some examples of what you can do to build resilience, both in your academic life and outside university.
Social responsibility is about making sure that your impact on others and the environment is positive rather than negative.
Being socially responsible involves undertaking activities which would directly benefit society or the environment.
Prepare to question, challenge and change unethical practice.
The University’s Student Charter sets out how you can be socially responsible at university.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/skills-and-experience/study-abroad:
Studying abroad is a unique opportunity to gain insight into a different culture.
There are three different types of study abroad opportunities:
Our 'Getting started' checklist covers the practical steps to consider before deciding to study abroad.
You can then use our guide below to identify which opportunity is right for you, and what you need to do next.
Whether you’re planning to study abroad for a short or long period, it’s important to start your research as early as possible.
You’ll need to make practical arrangements for factors such as visas and finance.
This can be complicated and involve specific deadlines or processes.
To get started, we recommend that you:
If you’re thinking of spending time overseas, but not sure exactly what you want to do, we can help.
You can book a guidance appointment via MyCareer.
Our careers consultants can help you explore your options or plan your career.
If you’re keen to get experience of living and studying abroad, a university exchange is worth considering.
Exchange programmes allow you to study at partner universities all over the world.
Please note: The information in this section doesn’t apply to students from the School of Modern Languages undertaking a compulsory year abroad.
You can find information on the Year Abroad Community on Canvas instead.
Newcastle University has EU and non-EU exchange programmes .
Use the university’s database to search for partner institutions in the countries you’re interested in.
You’ll need to make sure that the partners you’re interested in offer enough suitable modules in your subject area.
Check on their website and contact them if anything is unclear.
Once you’ve found suitable modules, contact your School Exchange Coordinator .
They will check that they meet the academic requirements of your course.
Most students go abroad in Stage 2 or Stage 3, depending on their degree programme.
To find out when you can go, contact either:
Depending on your subject, you could go for one semester or a full academic year.
You’ll be responsible for organising your own visa .
You’ll need to check eligibility criteria, visa conditions and processing times.
To get started, Global Opportunities have put together Visa information for EU countries .
The Global Opportunities team offer information about planning your finances .
To find out more about what might be available to you through the university:
Working part-time while studying abroad could help you to support yourself financially.
You will need to check:
You can find information about self-funding on our Funding a masters pages.
Once you’ve chosen a partner institution, contact your School Exchange Coordinator to discuss module options.
You can also contact Global Opportunities for advice and support.
The deadline is usually around January or February in the year you want to travel (unless you’re studying a language as part of your degree).
For more information and to apply online, go to Global opportunities: exchanges .
Use the following resources for more information:
There are some opportunities for short-term international study experiences.
Global Opportunities organise overseas summer schools.
To keep up to date with their latest opportunities on offer, see: Sign up to their mailing list for updates.
The Business School arranges some international summer schools.
Contact their Student Experience Team for more information.
The following resources can help you find other options for short-term study abroad:
Prospects’ top 10 study abroad tips can help you start thinking about further study overseas.
Our Further Study pages offer advice on how to choose the right course for you.
You could start by exploring the institutions we partner with for student exchanges, via Terra Dotta .
These institutions are already familiar with Newcastle University.
If you’re thinking of further study overseas, but not sure exactly what you want to study, we can help.
Book a guidance appointment via MyCareer to discuss your options.
If you're not sure where you want to study, read Prospects' guide to the best places to study abroad .
To search for overseas courses, see:
To find and compare overseas institutions, see:
Much of the application advice in our Further Study sections can be applied globally, especially if you are applying for a Masters or a PhD.
We would always recommend checking application guidelines with each individual provider.
If anything is unclear, contact them before you apply.
Country profiles may be useful to get an idea of application standards for specific countries.
You could look at:
When completing your application, ENIC-NARIC can help with recognition of international qualifications.
The ENIC-NARIC is a collaboration between national information centres, offering academic recognition of qualifications in 55 countries.
Our guide to funding further study includes ideas and approaches to help you fund your studies.
You can also speak to Global Opportunities about funding options available.
The following websites have information about global scholarships and funding:
You can find more scholarship information in the resources for specific countries below.
Use the resources below to find information and advice about studying in specific regions.
Semester dates in Australian universities can differ from those in the UK and other countries.
Postgraduate courses typically begin in March, but can vary by course and institution.
Useful resources:
Scholarships
Scholarships:
Education USA is the USA Government’s official portal for international students in the USA.
It covers information on:
Other useful resources:
If you want to spend time abroad and you’re exploring the options available, you may also be interested in:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/skills-and-experience/global-experience:
Undertaking work experience overseas can offer you unique insights.
You can explore a new culture, build your global network and develop valuable skills.
You may be considering overseas experience over the vacation, as a placement year, or after you have graduated.
The information on this page can help you to plan, wherever and whenever you want to go.
Follow the steps below to get started
Thinking about what’s most important to you helps you to focus your search.
Use the resources in Making Career Choices if you’re not sure what you want to do.
For help with exploring your options, book a guidance appointment via MyCareer .
Thinking about what other people have done can help with your planning.
You can check profiles of alumni on LinkedIn to see where they are working now and their work history.
Search by location, subject studied and career area to see if anyone is working in the country you're interested in.
Watch our quick tutorials to discover how to make the most of LinkedIn .
Remember to update your profile if you’re using LinkedIn actively.
You can also contact the university’s Global Ambassadors team and speak to a student who has experience of living abroad.
Before you start planning your time abroad, check for government and university restrictions.
Research the visa process via the relevant UK based embassy for the country you’re interested in.
Contact them directly and try to get instructions or information in writing.
Global Opportunities have listed the entry requirements for EU countries to give you an idea of what to expect.
It’s essential you check this information directly with the embassy yourself.
Visa and immigration information can change at any time, without much notice.
If you’re planning to go overseas, the earlier you start researching, the better.
It can help to consider:
Start your research by using the support and information on offer via Global Opportunities .
They offer advice about living abroad and information about funding options .
For more information and to stay up to date with opportunities you can:
The following resources can also help with your research:
GoinGlobal – country guides include information on job search resources, industry trends, CVs and applications, interviews, networking and living costs.
Watch a brief video on how to get the most from GoinGlobal's country guides .
You can also find advice from:
There are two main ways to find work experience:
Use our resources below to get started with finding opportunities for overseas work experience
Use GoinGlobal to find worldwide opportunities.
Their country guides have information on writing CVs for other countries.
For help with finding opportunities, you can book an information appointment via MyCareer .
You may also be interested in term-time study exchanges, short programmes and further study abroad.
Our International jobs pages include information about working overseas and resources for finding opportunities.
We advertise overseas vacancies on MyCareer .
Sign up for personalised email alerts.
GoinGlobal have a global internship search.
Watch their brief video on how to search their site effectively.
You can also use the following websites:
Our Australia and USA sections below have specific work experience resources for those countries.
See Organised programmes if you are considering paying a for an overseas experience.
You can also search for opportunities in specific countries using our international jobs resources.
Not all work experience opportunities are advertised.
For more information read targetjobs’ guide to making a speculative application .
To get started, use the following resources to search for companies:
For help with finding opportunities, book an information appointment via MyCareer .
Many organisations offer to arrange opportunities for students and graduates around the world.
These can be paid, unpaid and voluntary in a variety of sectors.
Using a placement provider could help to take some of the stress out of planning your time overseas.
Depending on what they offer, they could organise everything from your visa and experience, to your flights and accommodation.
You may also have access to an additional support network, including the staff running the scheme and other students taking part.
One of the main downsides of using a provider is the cost, as they can be extremely expensive.
They often offer unpaid opportunities, meaning you need to save money in advance to support yourself abroad.
You might not have much control over the experience you’re offered, or be able to change easily if you find you don’t like it.
Some charities or non-profit organisations charge fees only to cover the cost of running the programme.
However, many placement providers are businesses who charge a lot of money.
You can search GoAbroad for examples of internship providers.
If you are interested in using one, find out exactly what they are offering for their fee, eg:
It’s also important to check that they are a legitimate organisation :
The placement schemes listed below are legitimate, non-profit organisations.
They are either government funded or backed, or have an established relationship with Newcastle University:
The British Council bring together a range of short-term overseas work opportunities on their Study Work Create website.
Opportunities include:
The University's Global Opportunities team also organise and advertise short programmes overseas.
Employers in some countries may ask for an internship agreement to be signed by your university.
We recommend that you ask the employer if they need an internship agreement to hire you before you apply .
A tripartite internship agreement is a contractual arrangement between employer, student and education institution.
In France, it is known as the Convention de Stage, and in Spain as the Convenio de Colaboración.
The agreement covers how the internship fits into your studies and explains how you'll be evaluated.
If your internship will be included as part of your course, speak to someone in your academic school.
Your Degree Programme Director or Placement Officer may be able to sign the agreement for you.
If you need an agreement for your Careers Service Placement Year, please contact the team at cs.placementyear@ncl.ac.uk .
You may have arranged an overseas internship independently, which will not be accredited or form part of your course.
If your employer requests a signed agreement, you can download and use one of the following documents:
If you need either of these in an alternative format, or any other adjustments to access our resources, please contact us .
You can also convert documents into alternative formats using SensusAccess .
For additional proof of your status as a student and your programme of study, use the Student Portal to download your official University documents.
For non-accredited internships, we’re unable to sign any documents supplied by the employer, due to insurance and liability.
You can contact the above email address if you have any questions about the process.
The USA is a popular location for students who want overseas experience.
Use the information below to find out about work experience options, where to look for opportunities, what’s involved in arranging visas and other practical considerations.
If you want to experience living and working in the USA, but you’re not sure what type of work you want to do, the following may help:
The BridgeUSA Exchange Visitor Programme provides opportunities to travel and gain experience in the United States.
The programmes vary in length depending on the type of experience you’re looking for.
Use their comparison chart to explore which programme is right for you and read information below on some of the more popular options.
To take part, you’ll need to apply for a J-1 visa.
You can see information about visas below.
The Summer Work Travel programme is for full-time students, including final year students.
It allows:
Jobs can either be arranged in advance or on arrival.
Arranging a job on arrival is only possible for nationals from countries with USA visa waiver arrangements, such as the UK.
If you haven’t arranged work in advance, you need to show evidence of funds to support yourself while looking for a job.
The Camp Counselor programme is for students to work in approved summer camps with American youths.
This option is specifically for work as a camp counsellor.
Any other support or casual positions in the camp would have to be applied to through the Summer Work Travel programme.
The Intern route is for full-time students and recent graduates (up to 1 year after graduation).
The internship must relate to your field of study in one of their eligible occupational categories .
You can’t be in any casual or unskilled work.
The employer must complete an internship plan about the placement structure and the skills and experiences you will gain.
The Trainee route is for graduates who already have one-year of related work experience.
As with the Intern programme, the work experience must be in a degree related area, and not in a casual or unskilled position.
Working as an Au Pair is an option for 18-26 year olds who’re interested in:
There’s an option to extend this for an additional 6, 9 or 12 months.
All the above programmes outlined above involve applying for a J-1 visa .
J-1 visas can only be applied for through a sponsor organisation , for a fee.
These organisations check eligibility of both the candidate and the employer.
The sponsor, not the employer, will be responsible for you during your time in the USA.
You can find a list of sponsors by selecting the programme you’re interested in on BridgeUSA.
It includes organisations such as CIEE, AIESEC, BUNAC.
Some large employers have also gained sponsor status, including Disney, KPMG and Microsoft.
The CIEE (Council on International Educational Exchange) is one of the main sponsor organisations.
The UK representatives for the CIEE are ISTPlus and Interexchange .
Look at what different sponsors offer, as prices and services vary.
As well as sponsoring your visa, some might also support you with:
When deciding which sponsor to use:
To explore other visa options, visit the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services website.
For answers to specific questions, contact the UK based U.S.
Embassy and Consulates .
If you're not a UK national, contact the USA embassy for your country.
GoinGlobal offer a helpful overview in their U.S.
Country Guide.
It’s important to check information is up-to-date as visa guidelines are always subject to change.
Before you start your search for work experience, explore the relevant sponsor organisation for your J-1 programme.
They are likely to advertise or arrange opportunities for candidates.
You can also search for opportunities on the following websites:
Applications for US based summer internships close between January and March.
Start dates are often in May or June.
Semester and 12-month internships usually have deadlines three to six months in advance.
GoinGlobal’s country guide for the USA includes example CVs and cover letters.
If there is a specific type of employer or sector you’d like to work in, you could try contacting them in advance.
Start by identifying potential employers you would like to work for.
You can search for organisations using:
GoinGlobal offers a country guide for the USA.
It includes advice about accommodation, living costs as well as cultural information and tips.
Securing paid work could help you to maintain yourself financially while abroad.
In the USA it’s common for internships to be unpaid.
You may need to think about how to fund visa, travel and accommodation.
Our Funding your masters degree has an ‘other funding options’ section which can apply to non-study options.
Finding a contact who lives and works in the USA can help you get up-to-date information and advice.
Your contact may not be able to provide an opportunity, but they could:
Start with who you already know – friends, family, neighbours, lecturers, colleagues or contacts on LinkedIn and other social media .
Talk to them about what you’re looking for and see where the conversation leads.
They might have connections based in the USA.
You could also use the Find Alumni tool on LinkedIn to look up Newcastle graduates working in the USA.
Our 3 minute video guide to making connections on LinkedIn can help you get started.
Use the following resources and guides to find out more about looking for opportunities, living and working in the USA:
• GoinGlobal's Country Career Guide for the USA.
See their resources on finding opportunities, making applications, making contacts and living conditions.
• US Department of State: BridgeUSA • Travel.state.gov: Study and Exchange visas – exchange visitor programme and visa FAQs • CIEE: work exchanges blog – tips and advice about exchanges in the USA from one of the visa sponsors • IST Plus - advice on attending an embassy interview • International Arts and Artists: Explore Fields – case studies from students who have completed creative exchanges • More information about finding jobs overseas is available on our International jobs page.
• You may also be interested in opportunities to study abroad .
Australia is a popular location for students who want overseas experience.
Use the information below to find out about work experience options in Australia, where to look for opportunities, what’s involved in arranging visas and other practical considerations.
If you want to experience living and working in Australia, but you’re not sure what type of work you want to do, the following may help:
If you’re planning on taking some time out to travel in Australia, you might also be interested in arranging casual work to support yourself while you are there.
You can start by looking at the following resources which advertise opportunities:
A speculative approach is also helpful for arranging casual work.
You could try taking copies of your CV/resume to customer-facing businesses in your area, for example:
These roles tend to start quite quickly after recruitment, so you could arrange them after you arrive in Australia.
See InsiderGuides for further ideas about finding casual work in Australia.
Summer internships and placement years for university students are not common in Australia .
Employers tend to offer work integrated learning opportunities through university programmes.
It is possible to find some advertised opportunities.
Contacting companies directly might increase your chances of arranging work experience.
The terms ‘internship’ and ‘placement’ aren’t commonly used by Australian employers.
Try searching for work experience or look for opportunities with fixed term contracts.
You may see the term ‘vacation programmes’.
These are three months of paid work over the Australian summer break, November – March.
They are usually advertised and recruited in July or August.
For internships, avoid using the term ‘summer’ as part of your search.
The academic year in Australia runs differently to the UK.
UK summer breaks tend to run between June – September, whereas the summer break in Australia is typically November – March.
The following resources advertise short term / student work opportunities in Australia.
Opportunities:
During your search, you may come across organisations offering to arrange experience for you, for a fee.
Read our advice on using placement providers above.
As internships and placements aren’t common in Australia, you may need to be creative in your search for opportunities.
Contacting employers directly about opportunities is known as making a speculative application .
This is a very common way to find work and work experience in the UK, Australia and all over the world.
Start by identifying companies you would like to work for.
Our guide to finding employers below can help.
For more information read target jobs guide to making a speculative application .
To get started, use business directories and links to professional bodies on GoinGlobal's Australia country guide.
You might want to watch a 2-minute guide on how to use the employer directory effectively.
You could also try:
Visit GoinGlobal’s country guide for Australia.
It includes example CVs and cover letters.
The University of Newcastle Australia offers tips and advice on how to apply for a job , including sample resumes.
When planning to work in Australia, you’ll need to find out which visa you will need, and how long it will take to process.
Use the Australian Government’s Explore Visa Options tool to find the appropriate visa for you.
For short term work experience, you may be eligible for the Working Holiday Maker programme.
This allows people aged between 18-30 to visit Australia for up to 12 months and undertake any type of short-term work .
You can only stay with the same employer for 6 months.
It can take up to 3 months to process a visa.
You don’t need to have a job arranged to apply for the working holiday visa, or to arrive in Australia.
You can choose whether you want to research and apply for work in advance or look for work when you arrive.
You might increase your chances of finding an internship if you start researching, applying and contacting employers in advance.
The Working Holiday visa usually allows you to work with the same employer in the same location for up to 6 months .
To complete a placement year , you usually need to either:
You need to check the terms and conditions of this visa as you may need to arrange two placements.
For the most up to date information and eligibility requirements, visit the Australian Government Department of Home Affairs website .
For answers to specific questions, contact the UK based Australian High Commission .
GoinGlobal offer a helpful overview in their Australia Country Guide.
GoinGlobal offers a country guide for Australia.
Unless you are volunteering for a charity or non-profit organisation, the Australian Fair Work Act (2009) states that all workers need to be paid.
Finding a contact who lives and works in Australia can help you get up-to-date information and advice.
They might have connections based in Australia.
You could also use the Find Alumni tool on LinkedIn to look up Newcastle graduates working in Australia.
You can also use the following resources and guides to find out more about looking for opportunities, living and working in Australia:
More information about finding jobs overseas is available on our International jobs page.
You may also be interested in opportunities to study abroad .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/skills-and-experience/virtual:
Before looking at opportunities, it can be useful to consider what’s important to you.
Identifying and exploring your preferences, values and skills can help you to plan what to do now and after your course.
Many roles that were traditionally desk-based now offer the option to work remotely.
For example, there are options to work remotely in administrative, IT, sales, or customer-service roles.
To find remote, paid, part-time work use key word searches such as "home based", "work from home" or "remote work" on jobsites .
If you’re based in the UK on a Student Route Visa, you will need to check whether you would be classed as an employee, or self-employed, before applying for any role.
On a Student Route Visa you cannot be self-employed in the UK.
When searching for virtual roles, be aware that there are some instances of fraudulent or 'scam' jobs.
To help avoid them, read our guide on how to identify fake or scam jobs .
Use the following resources to find virtual internships and experience:
Rate My Placement lists paid virtual internships.
Internships which involve paying a placement fee are clearly marked.
Search for more opportunities by using 'virtual internships' as a keyword on internship sites listed on finding internships .
Forage is a free resource offering virtual experience.
This includes online experience in law, business, finance, tech, marketing, consultancy, design and engineering.
Programmes are built and endorsed by leading companies, such as KPMG, Deloitte, PwC and Unilever.
They contain resources and tasks designed to simulate real-world experience, and take around 5-6 hours to complete.
You can write about the experience on your CV as achievements, and on LinkedIn as certificates.
For more information about virtual internships, watch the SRS Recruitment and Employability Experts' guide to Everything you need to know about virtual internships (39:55).
Contribute your spare time to a good cause, while building experience and skills from home.
Go Volunteer in NUSU run virtual volunteering programmes.
They have links to over 200 charities and not-for-profit organisations within the local community.
See Virtual volunteering for more resources to search for opportunities.
You could consider starting up your own virtual venture, or working as an independent professional online.
If you're interested in self-employment or starting a business you could access our START UP service.
Access one-to-one coaching, training, events, peer-support and funding.
Find out more about START UP .
If you’re based in the UK on Student Route Visa, you are not able to work on a self-employed basis.
However, START UP can still help you develop your ideas and work on your plans.
Online courses are a great way to learn new skills, try out new subject areas or develop the skills you already have.
There are thousands of free courses available to start right now, from short courses that only take a few hours, to Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs), which typically last between 4 - 10 weeks.
Use the following websites to search for relevant courses:
Learn a language using free online resources from The Language Resource centre
The Skills Toolkit – popular free online courses to help you learn new skills.
It includes transferable skills that apply to all sectors and more specialised skills
FutureLearn – flexible online courses from world-class universities and industry experts
edX – 2500+ Online Courses from 140 Institutions
Udemy: Free Resource Centre – free online courses in a range of subjects
OpenLearn – free courses from the Open University
Ivy League MOOCs – courses from Brown, Columbia, Cornell, Dartmouth, Harvard, Penn, Princeton, and Yale
Alison – free online courses in a range of subjects
Coursera – free courses for university students
Iversity – European platform with a wide range of topics, from architecture to biotechnology
Skillshare – creative courses including photography, illustration and design
LinkedIn Learning – offers a month’s free trial with courses in Excel and PowerPoint.
Also offer personal development courses, including leadership, time management and public speaking
Digital skills courses:
If you want to develop your digital skills, find out about opportunities on these external websites:
Codecademy – free basic coding lessons
Udacity – free courses in programming, data science and artificial intelligence
Google Digital Garage – courses in digital marketing, communications and data.
Read target jobs' guide to advancing your career with online courses .
Our events pages list a wide range of online events to take part in, from the Careers Service, the University and all over the world.
You can get insider information on specific organisations.
Find out about the job market and how to make successful applications.
You can also see events listed on websites such as Rate MyPlacement and TARGETjobs
Awards, competitions and project funding
Entering a competition can be a great way to boost your skill set, gain experience and add to your CV – even if you don’t win!
Many involve virtual submissions, so competitions are often something you can work on from home.
Our ncl+ Award , is a great way for you to get recognition for any extracurricular activities you’re involved with this academic year.
Visit our Awards, Competitions and Project funding page for internal and external sources.
You can develop your occupational knowledge from home by following employers.
You can also join groups to keep yourself up-to-date with opportunities and industry news.
Connect with graduates through the Newcastle University LinkedIn Alumni page.
See our advice on how you can search for people who have studied your degree.
Browse profiles to see what types of things they're doing now and how they got where they are.
If you're not sure how to use LinkedIn, you can look at our advice , or watch some of our tutorials .
You could also make contacts through social media such as Facebook, Instagram and Twitter.
You could find relevant accounts on our sector-specific Twitter Lists .
Joining a professional body, which represents people working in particular sectors.
This could help you access training and networking opportunities, as well as careers support.
You can find links to relevant professional bodies in Explore Occupations .
We can support you through each step of the process when looking for virtual opportunities.
You can send us your CVs and applications for feedback.
You can access support for recruitment tests, assessment centres and interview preparation .
We can also provide interview coaching sessions.
You can practise questions and get feedback in preparation for an upcoming interview.
You can also keep up-to-date with our latest news on our social media @nclcareers.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/skills-and-experience/career-modules/career-development-module:
Use your work experience, volunteering or part-time job to count towards your degree.
The Career Development Module is a 20-credit module.
It is completed over the course of the academic year.
It's available to stage two and final year students on selected degree programmes.
Check with your academic school to see if you are eligible to take part.
You'll attend timetabled sessions and will complete work through Canvas throughout the year.
These will support you in setting goals to work towards during your placement.
They will also help develop your knowledge and skills.
You'll spend a minimum of 50 hours at your placement.
A minimum of 30 hours will need to be completed in semester 2 to fit in with module teaching and assessments.
Placement visits should be managed to fit around your academic and other commitments.
They must be carried out over a period of at least eight weeks.
There are three types of placement :
Help to raise the achievements and aspirations of young learners by supporting a wide range of activities.
You'll act as a classroom assistant, taking part in a range of activities alongside staff.
You could get the chance to work in a:
You'll gain valuable practical experience and the chance to develop:
We will usually arrange your school placement for you.
The University has relationships with a number of schools within 40 minutes of the city centre by public transport.
You do not need to worry about the cost of travelling to your placement.
The University can reimburse travel costs.
This is for up to £50 per student each semester (public transport or mileage).
It may be possible for you to arrange your own placement if you have a prior connection with a local school or college.
You may have been a pupil or have done a previous placement there.
In this situation, you must email csmodules@ncl.ac.uk before contacting them yourself.
We also offer tutoring placements through the educational charity Action Tutoring .
Students can volunteer with Action Tutoring to lead sessions for primary and secondary age learners.
This is in Maths and English.
If you choose the Career Development Module, we will provide more information about these options.
You must apply for a DBS check via the Careers Service.
Information on how and when to apply will be sent to you after you register on the module .
If you are interested in working with young people, you might also wish to consider volunteering at IntoUniversity .
You will act as a mentor, supporting and inspiring disadvantaged young people to achieve their goals.
Find out more about this placement on the Newcastle University Student's Union (NUSU) website.
Use your part-time work to develop skills that can impress employers when you graduate.
Draw upon experience gained through your current part-time work for academic credit.
Your work can be paid or unpaid.
With this module, you can gain insight into how you’re contributing to your existing workplace.
You can also learn how to show your value to potential employers.
Our students have undertaken work in a variety of sectors and roles.
These include work in leisure, retail, tourism, hospitality, and property.
Other roles have been in maintenance, local government, and the financial sector.
If your placement is unpaid, the University can reimburse travel costs.
This is for up to £50 per student, each semester (public transport or mileage).
Use MyCareer to search for part-time jobs and placement vacancies.
Find advice on finding part-time jobs , making applications and getting work experience .
You can book an appointment for one to one feedback on applications on MyCareer .
Before you start the module, you need to register details of your part-time term-work with the Career Development Module team.
You will be asked to include details of the person who will act as your placement supervisor.
Your supervisor will need to provide a copy of the organisation’s Employer Liability Insurance certificate.
They also need to provide completed Health and Safety checklist before your placement can be approved.
You will not be able to count any hours towards your placement after the initial meeting until your placement has been approved.
Further details of the approval process will be shared with students who choose the module.
Gain experience and knowledge outside of the lecture theatre through volunteering.
This module is open to students who want to volunteer through Newcastle University Students' Union (NUSU) .
This placement type will help you to recognise and analyse the graduate skills that you use.
You can volunteer within the Union or for external charities promoted on the NUSU website.
Please note that NUSU club and society roles cannot be used as module placements
To take part, you must be volunteering in a placement approved by the Students' Union before you start the module.
You also need to register your placement details with the Career Development Module team.
To find a volunteering placement, visit the NUSU website.
Choose from their list of pre-arranged placements.
You can browse placements by organisation or category.
If you are already volunteering you must email NUSU to confirm your placement.
Our assessment is designed to help you demonstrate your learning from the module.
It also encourages you to further develop your own skills.
Your assessment for the Career Development Module depends on which module you are taking.
You will attend timetabled teaching and engage with learning resources on Canvas.
These will help you prepare throughout the academic year.
All modules have two substantive pieces of assessment.
One is submitted in semester 1 and one in semester 2.
Full details for all modules are available in the Module Guides .
Your module assessments will include some of the following:
Registering for the Career Development Module is easy.
Select the Career Development module you want during the module choice period.
Your school can tell you if you are eligible to take a Career Development module as part of your course.
We recommend that you register early for the Career Development Module as a first choice.
Aim to do this on the first day that you can make your module choices as numbers for the modules are capped and places are limited.
The Career Development Modules are very popular.
In previous years all the places have filled within module choice week.
Once you've registered, check your university email for further information and instructions.
Before starting the module, you will need to complete an Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check.
This is done through the Careers Service.
You'll get details about how to do this once you've registered.
Before starting the module, you need to have a work or volunteering placement arranged.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/skills-and-experience/career-modules/careers-service-placement-module:
Graduate with the skills employers are looking for.
Get academic credit for a year of in-depth experience.
The Careers Service Placement Year Module is a 120 credit module completed over the course of the placement year (9-12 months).
It's available to penultimate year students on selected degree programmes.
This module is pass/fail.
It will be acknowledged on both your degree title and transcript.
It does not count towards your final degree classification.
The module gives you the chance to:
Hours
Learning and teaching
During your time at placement, you will take part in a programme of learning and teaching.
These sessions will support you in setting goals to work towards during your placement, and develop your knowledge and skills.
You will be allocated a module tutor who will be your point of contact for all academic activity on this module.
They will support you through your learning.
Our assessment aims to:
It will include:
Assessments will be conducted via the Careers Service Curriculum Team on a pass/fail basis.
Find out who manages your placement year on our Placements page to find out if you can sign up for our module, or who to contact in your school if you can't.
You are only eligible to register for the Careers Service Placement Year Module once you have a placement approved by the Careers Service.
Once you have found out who manages your placement year , you can:
If your placement year is managed by your school, you won't be able to register for this module.
Follow the step-by-step instructions for School Managed Placement Years instead.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/skills-and-experience/awards-competitions-funding/ncl-plus-award:
Take part in the ncl+ Award to have your extra-curricular experience recognised and learn how to discuss the skills you've gained.
If you have signed up to the award this year and are looking for support, please see the Canvas page or email careers@ncl.ac.uk.
Employers are increasingly looking for candidates who stand out from the crowd.
They value skills such as:
You may already be developing these as part of your extra-curricular activities.
Through the ncl+ Award you will reflect on the skills you are developing, and learn how to market these skills to employers.
The ncl+ Award team will provide support throughout the year to help you make the most of your achievements and skills beyond university.
When you complete the Award you'll receive the ncl+ Award e-certificate and an electronic ‘badge’ to display on your LinkedIn Profile .
Your 40 hours of activity must be completed by 1 April 2025.
You can do any combination of activities you do outside your degree.
The list of activities that go towards your ncl+ Award is quite extensive.
It can include almost everything you do outside of your degree:
This isn't everything though, we are happy for you to evidence anything that you have taken an active role in and which developed your graduate skills.
This may include attending society events, getting involved in team sports, etc.
Although you can complete the Award with just one type of activity, try to take part in more to develop a range of skills in different settings.
Taking part in different activities will help you reflect on skills gained from a range of experiences and will help you to complete the competency-based questions used to assess the Award.
Employers also prefer it when candidates demonstrate their skills through a range of different activities – it makes your interview answers much more interesting!
If you're undertaking the Career Development Module, any hours you do above the required 50 for the module can be used towards the ncl+ Award.
To start your ncl+ Award journey you can register on the NUSU website , then follow the email instructions to Canvas where you can begin your award.
As you can see from the choices below, you have the option to learn in-person (with discussion & interaction) or achieve the award independently online (solo in your own time).
If you have questions about the ncl+ Award before registering, please get in touch with NUSU .
Information about the first two units of the ncl+ Award will be listed on Canvas once you register.
Units 1 & 2 need to be completed by 31 January 2025.
There are 2 ways to complete these - either online, or in-person.
If you choose to complete these units in-person, come along to one of the in-person workshops where a member of staff will get you thinking about your skills and goals.
Workshops dates can be found on Canvas once you register.
If you cannot attend in-person, you can work your way through the video & tasks in your own time.
To complete the ncl+ Award, you will need to complete 40 hours of activity.
This may be logging activities you’re already doing through part-time work, voluntary hours as part of a committee, or time spent as a Student Rep.
You must complete 40+ hours of extra-curricular activity between 16 Sept 2024 - 1 April 2025, and make a note of them in your Activity Log.
You can download an Activity Log from Canvas and keep track of your hours throughout the year.
The next stage of the process is to complete Unit 3 & 4 of the ncl+ Award.
Again, you can attend one of the in-person workshops, or work through the videos on Canvas.
You must complete these units by 1 April 2025.
Once you've completed your 40 hours of activity and attended the workshops OR completed the 4x learning units on Canvas.
you submit your Activity Log and have the option to either write down your answers to three competency-based questions, OR record yourself answering them, like a real online interview.
These need to be completed by 1 April 2025.
The ncl+ Award team will let you know whether you have achieved the Award.
If you’ve passed, you’ll be sent an ncl+ Award e-certificate.
You will also receive an electronic badge to display on your LinkedIn profile.
Undergraduate and PGT students will also have the Award recorded on your HEAR/degree transcript.
If you haven't passed the Award, you will receive feedback and will be encouraged to resubmit once, with some guidance to help you pass.
Although you don't gain academic credit for participation in the ncl+ Award, you do need to complete the learning units and reach the required standard in your competency answers to achieve the Award.
Please see the ncl+ Award Canvas course for further details.
If you fail to complete a learning unit or submit work for assessment by the deadline due to a personal extenuating circumstance, you must make an appeal to the ncl+ Award team
Once you've completed your 40 hours of activity and completed the learning units on Canvas, you must submit your activity log and three competency-based questions via Canvas.
This year, we’re giving you the option to choose how you would like to complete the learning units – either in-person or virtually.
You can sign up to our in-person workshops via the NUSU website, links can be found within Canvas.
If you attend an in-person workshop we will still ask you to complete the short quizzes on Canvas.
The ncl+ Award team will let you know whether you have achieved the ncl+ Award.
If you’ve passed, you’ll be sent an ncl+ Award e-certificate.
You will also receive an electronic 'badge' to display on your LinkedIn profile .
Undergraduate students will have the Award recorded on your HEAR report.
If you haven't passed the Award, you will receive feedback and will be encouraged to visit the Careers Service for additional support.
You may be allowed to re-submit your answers once, if they fail to meet this standard and we will provide details of this at the time.
Although you don't gain academic credit for participation in the ncl+ Award, your activities are assessed, and you must complete the required learning units and reach the required standard in your competency answers to achieve the Award.
Please see the ncl+ Award Canvas course for further details.
If you fail to complete a learning unit or submit work for assessment by the deadline due to a personal extenuating circumstance, you must make an appeal to the ncl+ Award team .
Registrations for the 2024/25 Award are closed.
Registrations for the 2025/26 Award will open in September.
You can register on the NUSU website , then follow the email instructions to Canvas where you can begin your award.
All currently enrolled Newcastle University students are eligible to register for the ncl+ Award, within the registration deadline.
If you have already completed or are completing the ncl+ Award this year in Newcastle, our Advanced Awards will help you push yourself further, gain valuable skills and knowledge and build key contacts which could help your future career.
To view all our advanced awards and sign up please visit the Newcastle University Student's Union website .
We're always happy to answer your questions.
All general enquiries regarding the Award should be sent to award@ncl.ac.uk .
You can expect a response within a maximum of 5 working days.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/skills-and-experience/awards-competitions-funding/newcastle-university-awards:
The Newcastle University Awards recognise your achievements and contribution to university life and the wider community.
These awards acknowledge students involved in extra-curricular activities, including:
If you are a winner at any of the Celebrating Success Awards , you may be eligible to attend the Newcastle University Awards.
You'll then be invited to an event where awards are presented before an audience of students, university staff, graduate recruiters and city leaders.
If you are an Undergraduate or Postgraduate Taught award winner, you will also receive formal recognition of your award on your degree transcript.
To be shortlisted for the Newcastle University Awards:
The decision of the judging panel is final and no feedback will be given on individual nominees.
Winning students, societies or projects cannot enter the same category of the following year.
In assessing nominations, judges will be looking for evidence of how the nominee has made Newcastle University particularly proud within one of the category areas.
This will be through outstanding:
For each 'Outstanding Contribution' award, the winning entry will receive £250 and the runner up will receive £50.
All Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught winners will also receive recognition of the award on their degree transcript.
For any society winners, prizes will go to the winning societies, not to the individual who completed the form.
Congratulations to all students who have made it into this year's shortlist.
View the students who have been nominated below.
From commentating at Fight Night for NUTV, hosting a radio show, and helping at the Freshers gazebo and with the StuBrew collaboration, to writing 40+ articles for The Courier covering a range of topics, always completing editing on time, and helping with creative careers and elections special edition spreads.
There quite literally isn't a part of Student Media that Adam hasn't helped with.
His impact spreads across all sections of our community and is felt by everyone, Adam’s peers have said Student Media would not be what it is without him.
To mark National Sign Language Week during Ramadan, the British Sign Language Society hosted a “Deaf in Islam” event featuring Deaf Muslim UK speakers Khalid Ashraf and Irfan Yusuf.
Following an open Iftar at the mosque, students gathered for a lecture about how Deaf and Muslim identities interact and intersect.
The event provided a profoundly moving experience, particularly for one student, who for the first time, felt fully seen in both his faith and his Deafness at the same time.
The British Sign Language Society and Pole & Aerial Club collaborated on “Flex Like Nobody’s Watching”, a flexibility and contortion workshop led by blind circus artist Rachael Storey, aka Blind Fury.
The event aimed to create an inclusive space and bring together students of all backgrounds and abilities, including many with disabilities as well as individuals with no prior experience, and invite them to focus on self-acceptance and celebrating sensory differences.
Due to overwhelmingly positive feedback, they are already planning future events together.
Erin is described as a friendly face when you need one, she is a relatable chat when things get stressful but most importantly, she is passionate and excited when it comes to student radio.
Erin led the team which was shortlisted as a station for 5 amplify awards and two personal awards which she was one of, a huge achievement.
She is so infectiously passionate it makes you want to do more and work harder, truly bringing NSR to a place full of excited, hardworking people who want the best for the station and each other.
Grace has been part of The Courier since her first year of University and has worked her way up to Head of Current Affairs.
Grace has worked through personal challenges but with the comfort, motivation, and joy of The Courier, she has managed to work with various volunteers on various projects to enhance and expand the volunteer experience.
She has been a driving force behind the success of the weekly bulletin, relaunched The Couriers’ LinkedIn, created an article tracker, introduced a ‘breaking news’ group chat and so much more!
Musical Medics Society performed “Legally Blonde” at the Jubilee Theatre in Gosforth.
An entirely student-led performance, the show sold out all 3 nights and raised over £3,000 for Rape Crisis Tyneside and the My Name’5 Doddie Foundation, with representatives from both charities attending the show.
It had 3 sold-out nights that were very positively reviewed.
The show was fun, light, and fresh and had the audience laughing each night with an energetic cast, outstanding production, and high-quality tech.
The 2024 season started well for Etienne with personal best performances during the indoor season which saw her make the final of the British Senior championship for the first time.
She also won the silver medal at a competitive Southern Senior championship but missed out on a podium place at the BUCS indoor championship.
This disappointment fueled her resolve, and she rectified this by winning the BUCS outdoor championship in May.
She ended the season ranked in the top 10 in the country.
This year marks the most successful in Newcastle Korfball Club’s history, demonstrating exceptional growth, ambition, and sporting excellence.
From once struggling to field a team, the club has expanded to over 60 members, three BUCS teams, and an undefeated position in the local NEKA league.
The 1st team achieved its highest-ever BUCS Nationals seeding, securing 1st place at Prelims and 3rd at Regionals, while the 2nd team made history by qualifying for BUCS Shield for the first time.
This remarkable transformation, underpinned by dedication, inclusivity, and competitive success, makes Newcastle Korfball Club a distinguished candidate for the Contribution to Sport award.
Newcastle University Ladies Hockey Club has demonstrated an exceptional commitment to both sport and community impact.
Members volunteer weekly with N.E.S.T, coaching refugees, and have raised over £1,000 for Breast Cancer Now through their annual social.
The club actively supports Newcastle Carers, raising funds through events such as bake sales and the ‘Luni Dunk.’ Partnering with NCL Marrow, they help register 40 new stem cell donors each year.
Most recently, they launched a charity tournament supporting the My Name’5 Doddie Foundation.
Their dedication to fundraising, awareness, and inclusivity exemplifies their profound contribution to both sport and the wider community.
AMSA NUMed has showcased exceptional leadership and commitment throughout the year by organising over 20 events, the highest among all societies at NUMed.
Their dedication to engaging and enriching the student experience is evident in our consistent efforts to host at least 2-3 events each month, embodying our motto of "Building Bridges, Sharing Dreams" and their aims of knowledge, action, and friendship.
A significant highlight was successfully hosting the Medics Intervarsity Games (MIVG) 2024, attracting 1,912 participants from 26 universities across the country.
Over the past year, BrushUp has gone above and beyond by not only visiting numerous primary schools but also forming impactful partnerships, such as their collaboration with Wallsend Children’s Community Centre.
Through this initiative, they have distributed over 300 free oral hygiene packs, including toothbrushes, toothpaste, and essential oral care information to children in deprived areas who are often in urgent need of dental care.
Through Isaac’s role as Secretary of the Newcastle University Theatre Society (NUTS), he loves helping others and making them feel welcome in a positive atmosphere.
In a society of nearly 100 students, there is not a student he wouldn't help, nor a job he wouldn’t undertake for the betterment of the society he loves.
He gladly and happily volunteers his time to read countless scripts per semester to make sure student writers at Newcastle feel seen and valued.
This is beyond his role description, showing he is willing to go above and beyond and his commitment to helping others is greatly appreciated by all within the society.
This year’s Movember team broke the Newcastle University record for Movember funds raised, raising over £40,000, making them one of the top UK universities for Movember fundraising.
Funds raised are all going to programs and fundraising for research on prostate cancer, support systems for young men at risk, and raising more awareness for a great cause.
Nightline volunteers have worked tirelessly behind the scenes, providing a non-judgemental listening ear to students through their phoneline and messaging service.
As they remain anonymous, their efforts often go unseen, yet their impact is immense.
As of March 1st, volunteers have collectively contributed over 2,000 hours of service.
Their dedication keeps the service consistently available, making a real difference in students’ lives by offering a safe, supportive space whenever it’s needed.
Newcastle University Running Club Society is an incredibly welcoming and inclusive society that supports runners of all levels.
From a successful Couch to 5K programme to members achieving personal bests at all distances, NURC offers something for everyone.
With multiple weekly runs, a strong social scene, and collaborative charity events, the club fosters a supportive, friendly community.
Some highlights include an upcoming Peak District trip, joint socials with other societies, and consistent encouragement from the dedicated committee.
WAMS has been recognised for its exceptional contributions to both outreach and the support of current MBBS students.
This year, the society rebranded the initiative from Outreach Medics to WAMS, with a stronger focus on supporting all members of the widening participation community.
Recognising that much of the support often dwindles once students enter university, the society has shifted its focus to ensure that current students also receive continuous support.
Ella has coordinated the Plant-Based Universities campaign here at Newcastle University and she's done an incredible job recruiting students, campaigning, and running socials.
Without even having an official role at NUSU, she passed a motion to ensure that all non-ticketed NUSU events serve 100% plant-based food, and they have spoken at and helped plan the recent 'Hope not Heat' event, a cross-society environmentalist event to spread positivity around what we can do to solve climate change.
A model student, and co-chair of the Psychology SSC for years, Eleni has fostered a brilliant student-staff committee and community of partnership in Psychology through her incredible organisation, work ethic, and motivation.
She has focused on improving communication within the members which has been admirable and extremely effective.
She took the lead in some important initiatives including fixing the heating system of the Dame Margaret Barbour building increasing the visibility of SSC in the student body by keeping an A-board with feedback QR codes in the foyer and talking to the staff about including trigger warnings in lectures after relevant student feedback.
Emily and Sophia, as co-School Reps for PGRs in Natural and Environmental Sciences, have championed student voice at school and faculty levels.
They revitalised the SSC for broad representation, tackled major issues like financial constraints and policy changes, and fostered community - ensuring all PGRs feel heard, supported, and connected.
This SSC has exceeded expectations, consistently going above and beyond what could be expected of them in their role by championing inclusivity and student representation.
Olivia and Bronwen, as co-Chairs, led discussions and encouraged engagement, with Olivia also organising a period product drive.
Cara has advocated for safety and inclusivity, while Kit unified diverse groups and maintained clear communication across the department.
Hafsa is a passionate advocate who consistently speaks out against injustice on campus, challenging harmful institutional ties and standing in unwavering solidarity with staff during industrial action.
She’s been a key voice in campaigns around Palestine solidarity, ethical careers, and student-staff solidarity - never hesitating to hold power to account, even when it's uncomfortable or unpopular.
As an unapologetically Muslim, South Asian woman, Hafsa faces increased scrutiny due to Islamophobia and xenophobia, but she refuses to conform in order to be "palatable." Instead, she uses her voice with intention - to spark difficult conversations, disrupt performative allyship, and create space for real change.
As SELLL School Rep, Kieron has championed student voice through a challenging year, driving lasting change.
From resolving ReCap access issues to initiating an institutional policy review, improving teaching spaces, and enhancing student wellbeing, he has worked across departments to advocate for equity and engagement - laying foundations for future reps and students alike.
Lou and Rosie, MSc Language Pathology Stage 1 reps, have gone above and beyond.
They’ve built community through events and social traditions, created a live feedback system to amplify student voices, and supported peers academically by sharing helpful resources and checking in.
Their genuine care makes a real impact.
As the student rep for the NCL3000 module, Lucy supported placement year students based worldwide across diverse degrees.
She gathered feedback via an online form, shared it with staff, and helped implement meaningful changes like peer connections and a new support package ensuring students felt heard, supported, and part of the university community.
Rania has shown her passion both within the NUMed community and outside the NUMed community.
Within NUMed, she has executed various events under AMSA, MIVG focusing on sports, AMSEP an exchange program, and Oral Health Camp with KKM for community service.
She also cares about student welfare by being the Student Rep for year 3 and being the Head of Student Welfare in the Student Association.
She is also active in attending open days as a Student Ambassador, was a Librarian Aide, and is involved in research as the Secretary of NUMed Research Society.
Outside NUMed, she played a key role in public health advocacy as a Liaison Officer and current initiative deputy director for Malaysian Medics International Public Health.
Sohaila has consistently taken the initiative this year to create inclusive and impactful spaces for Muslim students on campus.
Through leading the ISoc Radio Show, she helped bring important conversations to the forefront and gave a platform to voices that are often underrepresented.
She’s also played a key role in projects like the Ramadan stall and the Big Sis programme, both of which have helped build a stronger sense of community and support among students.
Her involvement in organising alumni talks has also helped bridge the gap between current students and graduates, giving valuable insight and guidance.
Her work speaks for itself and has genuinely made a difference.
Ugochi has excelled in her role, demonstrating exceptional dedication, organisation, and leadership.
Her commitment to ensuring the prompt and effective circulation of all relevant information has been unparalleled.
Her meticulous attention to detail and proactive approach have guaranteed that every member of the committee is well-informed and prepared for each meeting.
Akash completed his internship with Tyneside and Northumberland Mind, developing data pathways, a key area of focus for the charity.
His approach fundamentally reshaped how they utilise data, enhancing financial tracking, improving the management of volunteering hours, ensuring GDPR compliance, and enabling more targeted and effective fundraising campaigns.
Far exceeding this, Akash’s work has created the foundation for a framework that can be replicated across different departments, saving time, and costs, and driving greater impact which is undoubtedly invaluable in their work.
Akash hasn’t just solved a troublesome data challenge but has provided a pathway for sustainable growth for the charity and enhanced donor relationships.
Laura stands out as a truly exceptional apprentice, demonstrating not only commitment and passion for the apprenticeship and her work but also dedication and an ability to put learning into practice that has benefited our team, the wider university, and colleagues at more than 20 universities across England.
Laura’s apprenticeship skills coach commented ‘You have really inspired me with your positivity and your focus to make the most of your apprenticeship and to be able to apply this successfully’ .
Rod has demonstrated exceptional talent, professionalism, and growth, making a lasting impact on his organisation.
His innovative data solutions have delivered valuable insights, driving smarter strategic decisions and measurable performance improvements.
Beyond his technical expertise, Rod’s outstanding communication skills and commitment to knowledge-sharing have fostered a culture of data literacy, strengthening team cohesion.
His remarkable journey of personal and professional growth has enhanced his confidence, problem-solving abilities, and resilience.
Rod truly embodies the qualities of an exceptional apprentice: technically skilled, innovative, and highly supportive, making him a deserving recipient of this award.
One of Sam’s most notable accomplishments was identifying £5.39 million in supplier overcharges.
By meticulously reviewing supplier invoices and contracts, he was able to uncover discrepancies and unfavourable clauses which had previously gone unnoticed and unaffected for 16 years.
Sam’s impact led to the company saving close to £1 million enabling funds to be allocated more efficiently on projects which seek to drive the company forward.
We are consistently blown away by his innovative contributions, one of which was the ideation and development of a tool to prevent supplier overcharges in the future.
His analysis will be used directly in CEO-level negotiations which truly shows the impact Sam has had.
Sophia has demonstrated exceptional leadership, dedication, and project management skills while serving as the Project Manager on the Agritech 5GIR project.
Sophia has taken a proactive approach to stakeholder engagement and risk management, leading various dissemination events that have connected industry leaders, government officials, and research communities.
She has represented Newcastle University with professionalism and integrity, presenting the project at national and regional events, engaging diverse audiences, and facilitating discussions with government departments such as DEFRA.
Her ability to communicate complex technical and scientific concepts clearly and persuasively has significantly contributed to the project's visibility and impact.
It is rare to see a placement student have such a transformational impact.
Tasha has far exceeded expectations, taking on responsibilities with initiative, creativity, and strategic thinking at a level well beyond what would typically be expected.
The panel was impressed by her most significant achievements, including leading a complete overhaul of the organisation’s blog and SEO strategy and leading Black Friday and Christmas email marketing campaigns, single-handedly generating £8,000 in sales.
She has fundamentally improved their content strategy, strengthened their marketing efforts, and delivered real business value.
Tasha has been an absolute asset to their team, and we truly believe she is deserving of this award.
A relatively young society, the Cold Water Swimming Society offers a unique combination of physical challenge, mental resilience, and community spirit.
From regular swims at Tynemouth Beach to sunrise dips and a wide range of socials such as bonfires, karaoke, and trips to the Lake District, the society provides a welcoming and inclusive atmosphere for all members.
It has rapidly grown into a close-knit group where everyone feels supported and valued; a perfect demonstration of what we want to see in a society.
Newcastle Marrow Society is truly doing groundbreaking work, making a real, life-saving impact.
Since September, they’ve recruited 825 potential stem cell donors, raised over £2,500 for the Anthony Nolan charity, and supported urgent patient appeals.
They have partnered with other clubs and societies to run their collaborative “Swabathons”, as well as awareness campaigns, especially highlighting the need for ethnic minority donors.
Swing Dance Society has gone above and beyond to create an inclusive, respectful, and welcoming environment for all its members.
From ensuring accessible venues and gender-neutral facilities to free period products, they have considered every detail.
They champion diversity by celebrating swing dancing’s African-American roots and challenging gender roles in partnered dancing.
Sessions are kept affordable and beginner-friendly, with a strong focus on safety and consent.
The Disability, Mental Health and Neurodiversity Society have gone above and beyond in representing and uplifting marginalised voices on campus.
Run by disabled students for disabled students, the society has created a welcoming and accessible space through the running of low-effort yet enjoyable socials such as coffee mornings and craft events.
They’ve expanded representation by adding a Mental Health Rep, Physical Disability Rep, and Neurodiversity Rep to their constitution.
Their impactful campaign to destigmatise OCD, Bipolar, and Schizophrenia reached students and staff across campus and encouraged students to find a community within the society, while fundraising for charity.
Jaeden is an exceptional leader whose dedication has had a transformative impact on both the Disability Mental Health and Neurodiversity Society and the LGBTQ+ Society.
Organising over 28 events, he ensures every member feels welcome and supported.
He spearheaded impactful campaigns on mental health and LGBTQ+ issues, and played a key role in events like the Be:Trans Transgender Remembrance Day Vigil.
Jaeden’s work has extended to creating accessible event guidelines and supporting trans and non-binary students, making him an inspiring changemaker for both communities.
Newcastle University Law Society has had an exceptional year.
The society secured over £10,000 in nominations – triple the previous year and highest ever recorded including support from four of the UK’s prestigious Magic Circle firms.
The society hosted weekly career events and launched a dedicated employability newsletter.
Welfare was a key focus for the society, running a successful “Welfare Month” and introducing seven new committee roles to improve inclusivity and representation.
During her time at university, Myka has been involved in several initiatives and has been a great support and inspiration to the students she has volunteered with.
Her commitment to equality has made the Combined Honours Society one of the most inclusive and popular on campus and she is a valued peer mentor within her school.
She has helped tutor children in local schools, delivered fun micro-volunteering sessions to students on campus, and successfully led the SciFair 25 project helping to inspire young people to want to come to university and go on to STEM-focused careers.
The Islamic Society has played a pivotal role in fostering a sense of belonging and integration among students at NUMed Malaysia.
Beyond organising events that strengthen community ties, it provides a vital space for students to celebrate their faith in a university where Islam is the majority religion.
The society is deeply committed to cultural exchange, warmly welcoming students from all backgrounds and creating a true home away from home.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/skills-and-experience/awards-competitions-funding/competitions:
Taking part in competitions is a fantastic way to enhance your CV, raise your profile with employers and gain valuable skills while having fun.
You could even win an internship or a cash prize.
Getting involved in competitions has many benefits: you can build connections, enhance your CV and gain the skills that employers look for.
There are lots of national and international competitions open to students - we've listed some of these by sector below.
Deadlines are staggered throughout the year, so check each competition for up-to-date information.
See the following websites to find competitions across sectors:
targetjobs: First Generation Undergraduate of the Year - win a paid summer internship and 1:1 mentoring with HSBC.
Open to penultimate year undergraduates, who are the first generation of their family to go to university.
Applications close in February each year and the winners are announced in April .
Find competitions on these following websites:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/skills-and-experience/awards-competitions-funding/make-it-happen-fund:
Developing a project or attending an interview, work experience or conference can sometimes involve costs.
Apply for funding to help support you.
The Make It Happen fund is here to support Newcastle University students and recent graduates (within 12 months of graduation) with their career development.
You can apply for funding to support with the costs of:
*eligibility criteria apply for relocation funding
Please read carefully before applying:
Find out more below.
Funding is available to support with the costs of:
The Careers Service don’t advertise unpaid internships.
However, in some sectors, unpaid experience is common and is often needed to get a graduate job.
You can apply for support with the costs of unpaid work experience.
Our funding covers travel or accommodation expenses that are not reimbursed by the employer.
You can apply for up to £500 to support extracurricular projects such as:
Get inspired by a real-life example of a project supported by the fund.
These projects should enhance your student experience, help build skills or benefit the wider community:
Funding is available to support with the costs of attending a conference.
Relocation costs are the expenses you might have when moving to a new place for a job.
This can include travel, moving your things, and settling into your new home.
The amount can vary depending on your situation.
Some employers offer help with these costs to make the move easier, so check their website.
Indeed have general information on employer relocation packages.
If you’re eligible, you can apply for up to £250 from the Make it Happen fund to help with the cost of moving for work.
To be eligible for our fund you must meet any of the following criteria:
You can email us with any questions about the Make it Happen fund.
Please allow 5 working days for a response.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/find-jobs/recruitment-agencies:
Recruitment agencies are a useful way of finding job opportunities.
You can use them for graduate vacancies and casual or temporary roles.
Recruitment agencies manage the recruitment process for organisations and companies.
They are paid by an employer to find the right candidate for a role.
You can use recruitment websites to search and apply for specific roles or register with an agency.
They can then add you to their database to be matched with suitable vacancies.
Recruitment consultants also approach potential candidates directly.
They source candidates with specific skills and experience by searching on LinkedIn or CV Library.
The process for joining a recruitment agency is:
You should never have to pay to use a recruitment agency.
They may charge a fee to review and develop your CV , however - remember, the Careers Service provides this service for free .
You don’t have to accept a job from an agency if you think it is unsuitable – ask lots of questions to find out more about the role.
It’s worth considering temporary work this can enhance your CV by providing you with the right skills and experience for a permanent position.
Recruitment agencies cover a wide range of industries.
They advertise vacancies for both temporary and permanent positions.
Some specialise in specific sectors such as science or engineering.
Others focus on specific roles, such as teaching or administration.
There are a few agencies which focus on graduate or entry-level opportunities.
Others advertise roles at a more experienced level.
It’s important to find ones which are relevant for you.
Specialist agencies have in-depth knowledge of their industry.
They can provide valuable advice on what employers are looking for.
You can find links to some specialist recruitment agencies in our Explore Occupations pages.
Recruitment agencies can also be helpful if you’re looking for local, part-time work.
Areas such as hospitality and catering, admin and clerical, and healthcare often recruit through an agency.
There are several agencies in Newcastle.
This includes small independents to national chains such as Reed and Manpower.
To find recruitment agencies for both graduate and part-time opportunities:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/find-jobs/part-time-jobs:
Find out about part-time work and where you can find opportunities.
Looking for a part-time job?
Meet employers who are actively recruiting for part-time workers at our pop up events, taking place between 29 September – 10 October.
Part-time work is a great way to gain work experience, develop valuable skills, meet new people and earn extra money.
While many students work part-time in shops, bars, restaurants, and call centres, in some sectors you can get a part-time job related to your degree course.
This may be, for example, in healthcare, marketing or web design.
For some sectors this may not be possible, and instead experience could be gained through placements, internships, work shadowing or volunteering .
Lots of students seek part-time work in the city centre, so think about extending your search.
Locations outside Newcastle including Gateshead, Sunderland, South Tyneside and North Tyneside are all accessible by bus and metro.
From 29 September – 10 October the Careers Service are hosting Part-time Jobs Pop Up events with employers who are currently recruiting for part-time workers, see our events webpage for a full list of employers taking part.
We have advice for international students on working in the UK during your studies.
This includes information on employment rights and how to apply for a National Insurance number.
If you’re looking for part-time work to help support you with living costs, see also Newcastle University’s Cost of Living Hub for additional advice and support.
How much you will be paid depends on your age, the type of work and employer.
However, all employers must pay their workers at least the National Minimum Wage (NMW).
The current NMW rates (from 1 April 2025) are:
You can use these websites to find advertised part-time jobs:
We're often asked how to tell whether a job advert is a scam or for a real job.
It can be hard sometimes to tell the difference, however, there are typical warning signs.
Visit our page on identifying fake or scam jobs for more advice.
Part-time work on campus is often advertised via MyCareer .
Search using 'Newcastle University' in the Organisation search field.
You can also find student jobs advertised on School notice boards or on the University's main vacancies portal .
Before starting any work for the University, you will need to register as a casual worker.
Information is available on the Working on Campus webpage.
There's a wide range of paid part-time work opportunities available on campus each year, we've included a selection of these below:
Work across campus in a variety of casual, temporary and longer term roles.
The JobsOC team advertise short and long term roles across campus via their Teams site.
Find out more and register for JobsOC .
At the Careers Service we offer flexible, paid internships .
These can be in term-time or in the summer, either on campus or with local employers.
Roles are advertised throughout the year on MyCareer .
The Careers Service recruits student CV Advisers each year.
You will be paid to advise students on CVs, cover letters and LinkedIn profiles.
The hours are flexible around your studies.
Positions are advertised on MyCareer in March, you must be a registered Newcastle University student for the following year to be eligible.
This opportunity is open to students of all degree disciplines and stages.
Inspire young people while representing and promoting Newcastle University as a student ambassador .
The application deadline is usually early October each year.
For more information contact studentambassadors@ncl.ac.uk
The Careers Service recruits postgraduate students each year to support student assessment for the career development module and the ncl+ Award.
Positions are typically advertised on MyCareer in March for that academic year.
Become a street scientist to inform and inspire the public about STEM (science, technology, maths and engineering).
You’ll perform live science demonstrations and answer questions.
This can be in the city centre and at various festivals and events.
This opportunity is open to Newcastle University undergraduate and postgraduate students.
Positions are usually advertised from around September and close in early October each year.
Take part in face-to-face tutoring to students in year 8.
You will raise confidence and understanding of higher education options.
Acting as a role model, you will inspire young people to consider applying to university.
The position is open to current Newcastle University students.
Applications usually open in September and close in early October each year.
For more details, please contact megan.williamson@newcastle.ac.uk .
Assist with the smooth running of University exams by becoming an exam invigilator .
This is an opportunity for postgraduate research students.
Applications usually open in September and close mid-October.
Please contact the Exams Office if you have any queries about this role.
Sporting roles range from Intramural Sport Leaders or Strength & Conditioning Interns.
Supporting roles are also available, such as First Aiders and Marketing Interns.
See Newcastle University Sport's website for more information.
The School of Biomedical, Nutritional and Sport Sciences offers development opportunities to stage 2 students.
This involves paid part-time lab assistant posts within research laboratories.
To find other University lab-based work experience, check your school noticeboard or contact your department.
Recruitment agencies can also be a useful source of part-time or temporary work.
See Recruitment agencies for information and tips on using an agency.
Seasonal work can be a great way to earn extra money and gain work experience.
Seasonal work in the summer could be found at summer camps, festivals, or in harvest roles.
Prospects have ideas and advice on finding summer work .
In the autumn/winter, shops, restaurants and delivery and logistics companies often recruit extra staff before the Christmas period; recruitment typically takes place from September onwards, but can be as early as July.
Employers often expect staff to have availability to work both during the lead up to and throughout the Christmas period.
As well as using the vacancy sources listed above, for holiday and seasonal jobs, you can also visit:
Not all part-time jobs are advertised.
A speculative approach is common for finding part-time jobs.
This is where you approach an organisation directly to ask if they have any opportunities available.
Handing in a copy of your CV in person is particularly useful when looking for retail, bar or restaurant work.
Start by identifying organisations you are interested in.
Our guide to finding organisations below can help.
Some students work self-employed while studying.
See Prospects’ advice on side hustles for students for an idea of the type of work you could do.
International students who are in the UK on a student visa are not allowed to work on a self-employed basis.
If you start working for yourself, you may need to report your income to HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC).
You may also need to set up a business.
For more information on self-employment finances, visit:
The Start Up team have some valuable advice, workshops and funding opportunities for setting up your own business or doing freelance work part-time.
You can find more opportunities and advice on these websites:
If you’re worried about financial issues, the University has advice on managing your money and dealing with financial pressure during your studies.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/find-jobs/part-time-jobs/jobs-on-campus:
We offer students the opportunity to work on campus for the University.
Newcastle University offers students the opportunity to work on campus in a variety of different roles.
Some of this on campus work is managed by the JobsOC team in the Careers Service.
The JobsOC team advertise available work assignments to a pool of student workers via a Teams site, with information about the role, working hours and skills needed.
The amount of work you are offered will vary depending on the type of work you are looking for, the amount of free time you have during the week and how successful you are when you apply.
There are a wide range of roles including administration, customer service, library assistance, catering and event support.
The Jobs On Campus Example Work Assignments (PDF:270KB) document details the types of roles available.
Jobs On Campus roles are paid in line with Newcastle University student casual pay rates.
See Pay and Conditions for the latest rates.
Newcastle University is a Real Living Wage employer.
This commitment is reflected in the rates of pay for all on-campus student workers.
Students claim online for work undertaken via the My Working Hours app.
This is then checked by a member of staff.
Payment is made monthly in arrears and is paid directly into your bank account on the last working day of each month.
For more information about working on campus, including terms and conditions and eligibility, visit the Working on campus web page.
For more information about student work through Jobs On Campus, see the Jobs On Campus Student Worker Handbook.
(PDF: 114KB).
If you have any questions, email us at jobsoc@ncl.ac.uk .
Before joining the Jobs On Campus pool of student workers, you must register as a casual worker .
You can do this through the Student Portal .
After you’ve registered for work on campus on the Student Portal, you’ll receive an email within 2 working days inviting you to join the Jobs on Campus Teams site .
From accepting your invite to join, it can then take up to 2 weeks to get your request approved and receive access to the Teams site.
The site is open to all registered student workers and is where we advertise on campus work assignments.
It also includes updates and information as well as resources to help you to develop your skills while you are working.
If you secure a role, you'll then receive an invite to complete a right to work check with the University's Recruitment Team.
You won't be able to start work without this.
Please only register if you intend to work on campus soon after registering.
If you register for work and don’t complete any assignments within six months of registration, your personnel record will be deleted.
You would need to re-register if you were offered any assignments after this date.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/find-jobs/researching-employers/fake-jobs:
Occasionally some jobs are advertised without a genuine vacancy.
They aim to gain your personal or financial information to use for fraud.
Here are some guidelines that will help you identify fake or scam jobs.
Fake or scam job adverts may look and sound unprofessional.
Look out for:
If you’ve received an email about a job that you haven’t applied for it could be a scam.
Take the following steps to make sure the employer is genuine:
Email and telephone communications from genuine employers should be polite and respectful.
Scam employers may seem unprofessional.
Check whether the pay is realistic for the job you are being asked to do – the pay offer might be unusually high.
Scam job adverts may include details of pay in international currency rather than GBP.
Use the resources below to find average salaries for job roles:
Check with the employer what the recruitment process involves:
If you have already started work, you may be concerned about some of your duties.
These are some things to look out for:
JobsAware is a not-for-profit organisation that offers information and advice to help prevent job scams.
The Careers Service monitors vacancies advertised through MyCareer, however external vacancy websites have their own processes for screening job adverts.
Although monitoring takes place, scam advertisers can develop new tactics to avoid detection.
If you have concerns about any job advertisements advertised by the Careers Service or on other vacancy websites, please book an appointment or contact us through MyCareer .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/find-jobs/graduate-jobs:
Develop your career after graduation
There are two main types of graduate employment in the UK: graduate schemes and graduate jobs.
They are both valuable opportunities where you can use your degree.
However, the structure and application process can be quite different.
Graduate schemes (or programmes) tend to be with larger organisations.
They are usually structured training programmes of around 18 months to 2 years.
Employers tend to recruit a large number of candidates each year.
They are competitive and involve several stages in their recruitment process.
You usually need to apply for graduate schemes a year before they start.
Applications start to open in August or September and close as early as October to December.
These roles will then start in the following summer/autumn.
They are common in sectors such as:
Graduate schemes can also be found in some non-for profit sectors, such as the police, social work and teaching.
They are less common in the creative sector such as media.
Entry requirements vary, but employers often ask for a minimum degree classification of 2.1 or 2.2.
Many graduate schemes, like accountancy and management, are open to any degree discipline.
Some graduate schemes, such as engineering, IT or science, will need specific degree subjects.
Graduate schemes are usually advertised widely.
You can also speak to graduate recruiters at events .
Here, you ask them about their roles and potentially develop contacts.
For more information, see the Debut Careers' Guide to graduate schemes .
Graduate jobs also offer training and support, but they can be less structured than graduate schemes.
Recruitment for graduate jobs can take place all year round.
Vacancies may be based on business need rather than having a set number of graduates they hire each year.
Jobs usually start immediately and have a simpler and shorter recruitment process.
They also tend to be less competitive than graduate schemes.
Graduate jobs can be less widely advertised, so you may need to do more research to find them.
They can be found:
Want more help finding opportunities?
Book an in-person or online appointment via MyCareer with an Information Adviser.
Find out more about:
There are many ways to start your search for roles.
The key for graduate schemes or large employers is to start early as many will recruit a year ahead.
Small and medium companies may advertise all year round, based on business need.
Use the following lists to find graduate vacancies.
The following websites advertise graduate vacancies in all sectors:
Find vacancies that are specific to your sector on these websites:
For more vacancy sites in specific career areas, see Explore Occupations .
The following sites can also be useful.
Try searching for opportunities using 'graduate' as a keyword:
You can approach many employers directly, even when they aren't advertising a vacancy.
This is sometimes called a speculative application.
Find an employer that you're interested in and send them a tailored CV and cover letter or email.
Make sure you:
Try to identify a contact name to address your cover letter to.
You can try calling to find out who's responsible for recruitment within the organisation or a key contact in the department you want to work in.
It’s useful to follow up a speculative application with an email or phone call, around 5-7 days afterwards, to show you are serious and motivated.
For more advice, see TARGETjobs: Making speculative applications for graduate jobs .
Use these websites to discover companies offering graduate roles:
Many employers use social media to recruit students and graduates.
Employers use LinkedIn, Facebook, X (formerly Twitter) and Instagram to:
Social media can be a useful way of finding job opportunities.
You can follow companies online, make contacts and keep up to date with recruiters.
It can also give you an insight into an organisations culture and the type of candidate they’re looking for.
Be careful when posting on social media sites.
70% of employers use social media to screen candidates before hiring.
Anything you put on social media should be something you'd be happy for a recruiter to see.
Job offers have been withdrawn from people who posted inappropriate comments about the company online.
Find out more on this study from CareerBuilder .
See these websites for more advice on using social media in your job search:
To find information about starting salaries, complete our Discover your Earning Potential Pathway on MyCareer.
This will allow you to access the pay index which can show you:
The following resources offer salary advice and can help with your research:
For information on how to negotiate a salary with an employer, visit Handling job offers .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/find-jobs/graduate-jobs/north-east-jobs:
Many Newcastle University graduates choose to start their careers in the North East.
If you want to work in the North East, you can find links to local vacancies in this section.
Local newspapers are often a good source of vacancy information, for example:
Find local organisations on MyCareer - click on ‘search organisations’ under the Vacancies tab.
The North East Evidence Hub publishes information on the labour market in the North East.
This includes employment statistics and trends.
According to the North East Local Enterprise Partnership , there are four areas of focus for growth in the region.
These are: advanced manufacturing, digital technology, energy and health and life sciences.
Use these websites to conduct an online job search:
Find job opportunities within the University:
The public sector includes education, the NHS and public administration.
There is a large hub for this sector located in the North East.
You can look for vacancies on these websites advertising public sector jobs:
Recruitment agencies can be useful for finding graduate jobs in the North East.
These tend to be for immediate start positions.
It's worth registering with one or two agencies towards the end of your course.
Agencies in the North East include:
Not all vacancies are advertised.
Many people create their own jobs through making contacts and networking.
Identify a company you'd like to work for you and approach them about possible vacancies.
Make an initial phone call or email and then follow up with a CV and covering letter .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/find-jobs/graduate-jobs/international-jobs:
Working overseas can be an unforgettable opportunity.
Experience new cultures, learn a new language and enhance your employability in a different environment.
When considering working abroad you will need to do plenty of research.
The following questions can be used to help you with your planning.
Use the resources on the following pages to get started.
Enhance your employability by working overseas.
Use our resources and advice for a global job search
Start your job search in Africa and the Middle East
Start your job search in the Americas
Start your job search in Asia
Start your job search in Australasia
Start your job search in Europe
Find out how to enhance your overseas job search with our international resources: GoinGlobal and LockinChina.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/find-jobs/graduate-jobs/international-jobs/asia:
Advice and resources to help you start your job search in Asia.
The following guides and profiles can help you start your research and planning.
The types of information you can find include:
Our China Career Gateway programme offers information, support and advice for careers in China.
It covers the Chinese job market, making applications in China, and hearing about graduate experiences.
INTO University Partnerships have created two Return & Connect jobs and networking platforms for international students and alumni:
GradLink, Prospects and targetjobs have detailed profiles for Asian countries and regions, including:
You might also be interested in resources for the Middle East .
Use the following resources to find advertised vacancies by location.
Not all opportunities are advertised.
1.
Identify a contact name to address your cover letter to.
Call or email to find out who handles recruitment within the organisation.
Or, find a key contact in the department you want to work in.
Send them a tailored CV and cover letter.
Express your enthusiasm for the sector.
Show that you have researched the company .
Follow up your speculative application with a phone call, or email, around a week later.
This shows you are serious and motivated.
If your application was unsuccessful, ask for feedback or advice , and keep trying!
Use the following resources to find organisations to approach:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/find-jobs/graduate-jobs/international-jobs/working-abroad:
Enhance your employability and gain unique experiences by working overseas.
When considering starting your graduate career outside of the UK.
the vacancy and employer resources on this page can help.
If you're thinking about working abroad, it’s important to start your research as early as possible.
You’ll need to make practical arrangements for factors such as visas and finance.
This can be complicated and involve specific deadlines or processes.
Follow the steps below to get started:
Check the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office’s (FCDO) travel advice for the country you’re interested in.
They offer advice about living abroad .
GoinGlobal can also help with your research.
Their country guides include information on job search resources, industry trends, CVs and applications, interviews, networking and living costs.
There are two main ways to find opportunities
Use our resources below to get started with finding opportunities for overseas jobs.
Their country guides have information on writing CVs for other countries .
Use the following information to help you investigate working overseas:
Use the following resources to find advertised vacancies and research employers for speculative applications:
For more advice and vacancy sources see our webpages on specific areas of the world:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/find-jobs/graduate-jobs/international-jobs/africa-and-middle-east:
Advice and resources to help you start your job search in Africa and the Middle East.
Try the following sites to find companies to approach:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/find-jobs/graduate-jobs/international-jobs/americas:
Advice and resources to help you start your job search in the Americas.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/find-jobs/graduate-jobs/international-jobs/australasia:
Advice and resources to help you start your job search in Australasia.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/find-jobs/graduate-jobs/international-jobs/europe:
Advice and resources to help you start your job search in Europe.
The following websites have detailed profiles for the following European countries:
When applying for internships in some countries in Europe, employers may ask you for an internship agreement signed by your university.
These agreements can go by different names, for example:
If you are applying for internships as a graduate, the university will not be able to sign any documents supplied by the employer.
We offer an internship agreement form for graduates.
You can access it on our Global Work Experience pages.
The following resources have individual vacancy sites for multiple European countries:
Use these websites in addition to those listed above.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/find-jobs/graduate-jobs/international-jobs/international-resources:
Research country information and search for jobs, internships and employers worldwide
GoinGlobal provides advice and resources for finding career opportunities internationally.
It is free for all Newcastle University students and graduates of the last three years.
Country Guides
Job and internship search
Employer profiles
Log in to MyCareer then click on the Resources tab in the top right hand corner.
You'll find GoinGlobal listed under 'other'.
Watch the following brief videos to find out how to use different features of GoinGlobal effectively.
Newcastle University has teamed up with Lockin China.
Lockin China supports students to find employment in China.
It is used by over 500,000 students and 20,000 employers.
Use Lockin China to:
INTO University Partnerships have created a jobs and networking platform for Vietnamese, Thai and Indonesian students and alumni.
Return & Connect is free for all Newcastle University students and graduates.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/startup/advice:
Confidential, one-to-one guidance for you and your start-up goals.
START UP advice and coaching is for all students and recent graduates who want to start a business or work freelance, now or in the future.
Whether you’re just curious, considering it or already doing it, we can help you at every stage of your start-up journey from pre-idea to launch and beyond.
We support students and graduates with ideas and ambitions of all kinds, big and small.
You can be of any background or experience level.
You don't need to have a fully formed business idea or to be studying business to start your own.
Plus, we're not only for traditional business founders.
We also support sole traders, freelancers, contractors and social entrepreneurs.
Begin your journey with us by booking a 30-minute initial appointment.
A member of our team will meet with you to discuss your ideas, goals and what stage you're at.
They will signpost you to any relevant events and resources and if you're ready, refer you to an adviser.
Which adviser you’ll see depends on where you are with your business opportunity.
Whoever you meet with, the START UP team will help you move your idea or existing business forward.
Our advisers can also help you find grant funding and make important introductions.
All appointments are available in person or online, all year round.
Our Entrepreneurship and Start-up Consultants support early-stage ideas.
They will help you understand what you need to do to take your business idea forward.
They will meet with you for up to one hour, up to three times.
Once you've made some progress, they will refer you to a Business Adviser.
Our Business Advisers support more developed ideas or existing businesses.
They will meet with you for up to one hour, up to six times, to help you strengthen and grow your opportunity.
They will give you practical advice and connect you to further support in the region.
All our advisers are practitioners, meaning they have first-hand experience of being self-employed.
Allison
Laura
Alan
Rebecca
Susan
Jo
"The conversation was exactly what we needed" - Lewis, BSc Marketing & Management
"Every appointment I have had with the Careers Service so far has always made me feel incredibly good about myself and helped me to recognise my potential." - Hannah, MA Cross-Culture Communication and Education
"I feel fully supported in everything I want to do, there was more support on offer than I expected." - Beth, BA Fine Art
"Incredibly useful feedback and clear next actions...
support and enthusiasm to guide me through the development process.
Look forward to working with START UP again in the future." - Ryan, MSc Business Management

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/startup/events:
Connect and establish skills to help you start or grow a business or self-employed career
We host regular networking events and socials for our START UP community.
Our events will help you:
We also facilitate workshops to help you develop your skills and start-up opportunity.
Our workshops will help you:
Apply now for the START UP x Makerspace Summer design and prototype fund to experiment, build, and showcase your ideas.
Have an idea for a business, social enterprise or side-hustle?
Want advice on funding, pitching, or getting started?
Just curious about entrepreneurship?
Drop in for a chat with the START UP team, no appointments, no pressure!
Drop in and you'll be allocated a 20-minute slot on a first-come first served basis with a Business Adviser.
For all Newcastle University students and recent graduates.
START UP Space, Level 1, King's Gate
All our events and workshops are delivered by experienced industry professionals and advisers.
They are open to students and graduates for up to three years.
We also welcome colleagues to attend.
Students and graduates can register for events and workshops through MyCareer .
Colleagues can email us to reserve a space .
To view all of our upcoming events, click the button below and select the 'Work For Yourself' and 'START UP Workshops' event types.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/startup/events/summer-design-and-prototype-fund:
Do you have a creative idea you’ve been itching to prototype?
This summer, we’re giving you the tools, materials, and space to bring it to life.
Do you have a creative idea for a physical item you’ve been itching to prototype?
✅ Access to the Stephenson Makerspace
✅ Materials provided (first-come, first-served!)
✅ Training and support  including Makerspace inductions and START UP creative huddles
✅ Final showcase at our Pop-Up Shop in September
Whether you’re a designer, engineer, entrepreneur, or just curious, this is your chance to make something real.
(Please note this is for physical items only, if you have an idea for a digital product please book an appointment on MyCareer to speak to a member of the START UP team).
👉 Apply Now – Expression of Interest Form
🗓️ Open Call: 9 June – 10 September
🛠️ Prototyping: 1 July – 1 September
🎉 Demo Day: 18 September
Who Can Apply?
Current students or summer 2025 graduates, all disciplines welcome, no experience needed.
Applicants must be a current student or part of the summer graduating classes (you must have a working Newcastle email and smartcard to access the Makerspace) with an idea you wish to explore through prototyping or making.
Fill out our quick Expression of Interest form below, and meet with one of our Start Up Consultants
You can make physical items using the following available equipment:
Electrical and metal-related requirements fall outside the scope of our prototype fund.
Prototype fund recipients must not be involved in any form of illegal activity or activity which in the sole determination of Newcastle University may bring the University into disrepute.
The University may reject applicants at any stage of the application process and may terminate an offer where activity is not in line with the values of the University or presents a potential reputational risk for the University.
Assessment of grant requests will be made in the context of the University’s values and in line with university processes and procedures.
No, our prototype fund is here for anyone, if you have experience that’s great, but our team are here to help you make your prototype, so you don’t have to have any experience in making, just an idea!
Induction dates will run fortnightly on a Wednesday at 13.00 from 11 June located in MFL2 (second floor Stephenson building).
The sessions are drop-in so there’s no need to sign up.
IP must be your own.
Students and graduates are responsible for the protection of their own ideas when it comes to any commercially sensitive ideas or information.
You can consult with a member of the START UP team if you have any concerns.
Final prototypes will be exhibited at a 'Demo Day' on Thursday 18 September in the START UP Pop-up Shop , where students can present their work to peers, staff, local businesses and potential collaborators during induction week in September 2025.
Our creative huddles are a chance to check in with the START UP team and other students working on their prototypes.
Meet in the King’s Gate START UP space to ask questions and discuss your ideas and solutions.
Embroidery Machine
3D printing machine
3D printed flower
Makerspace 3D printed clock
Laser-cutting machine
Laser engraving

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/startup/grant-funding:
Equity-free grant funding to help you start or grow a business opportunity.
We can provide financial support to help you build or grow your business, freelance career, or social enterprise.
Our grants are equity-free, meaning we don't take any shares or stakes in your business.
We can award grants in any amount up to £3,000.
We issue smaller grants to help with business exploration, including market research.
We issue larger grants to help with business development, such as prototyping.
The grant funding application process will also help you to create a strong proposition for your business idea.
Everyone who engages with us will walk away with a stronger proposition and richer experience.
The process can also help you with self-reflection and assessment, applying for future funding and practising your pitch.
Our grant funding is just one option available to you, book an appointment with our Entrepreneurship and Start-up Consultants to discuss your options.
We run selection panels to award grant funding.
As part of this, we'll ask you to do a short pitch to explain what you would spend the funds on and why.
The 'why' is the most important part.
An Entrepreneurship and Start-up Consultant or Business Adviser can refer you to a selection panel and help you prepare to pitch.
You will need to make an appointment with the START UP team before you can access grant funding.
START UP Grant Funding Terms and Conditions (Accessible document) .
If you have any questions about grant funding, contact us .
With support from the START UP team, Maxime's volunteer-run STI testing service has evolved into a registered social enterprise, demySTIfy Sexual Health Ltd.
Rachel, MSc Strategic Leadership programme, has carved out a unique path as a Digital and Innovation Consultant, Creative Writer, and founder of Women in Tech North East CIC, with a little help from Newcastle University’s START UP team.
Pete, a Food and Human Nutrition student founded Thrifty Chef, a social enterprise designed to reduce food waste and teach essential cooking skills through simple tasty box meals.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/startup/grant-funding/maxime-levasseur:
Founder of demySTIfy Sexual Health Ltd
Maxime ran the volunteer-run subscription-based STI testing text service, demySTIfy, while studying for her Psychology BSc .
After realising she wanted to continue after graduation, Maxime began her journey with the START UP team.
I started working with START UP in early 2024, when it dawned on me that the volunteer-run subscription-based STI testing text service that I had set up through NUSU Go Volunteer would likely not continue after my graduation, as I was the solo founder.
I had no idea of how to run a business, but through numerous meetings with the START UP team, I eventually started building my confidence and knowledge in the field of entrepreneurship.
With their support, I applied to the Foundership programme, and was awarded mentoring with Edge Innovation Ltd - who have further supported me in my journey towards making demySTIfy a reality.
I finally officially registered my business in January 2025, and applied to the Innovation Funding Service Design Foundations Round 6 award.
I saw some emails come through about START UP throughout my time at university, and though I was curious, I didn't take the leap until my final year.
This was after I attended an awards night and the person next to me asked why on earth I hadn't set up my volunteer service as a business - I think it clicked for me that it had potential to make a wider difference, if I worked towards setting up the idea as a social enterprise.
The application process was very straight-forward, simply completing an online form.
I discussed this briefly with a START UP advisor beforehand as well.
Working with the team was amazing, I felt truly encouraged (and at times, when needed, grounded back to realism) - and they made me realise that setting up a social enterprise didn't have to mean doing it full-time.
This made a huge positive difference to my journey, as it allowed me to continue working towards my dream career of being a Clinical Psychologist (and now, also a business owner!).
I ended up using the £250 initial funding to pay for my business set-up fees, including registering the business and paying for a registered address and post forwarding service.
This was really valuable for me to overcome the initial cost of set-up.
I have also applied to the Innovation Funding Service Design Foundation Round 6 award, which if successful I plan to use to design the app using co-production with end users, and partnerships with Edge and a local tech provider.
I would say absolutely book in an initial meeting if you're curious - setting up a social enterprise is understandably daunting, and I used to always say that I didn't want to work for myself...
but START UP allowed me to see that I use my passion for an idea, set it up as a social enterprise, and still successfully do this part-time.
They bring expertise and connections which makes the whole process much more manageable.
They're just lovely, encouraging people!

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/startup/grant-funding/rachel-pattinson:
Founder of Women in Tech North East CIC / Self-employed as a Digital and Innovation Consultant and Creative Writer
Rachel, a 2023 graduate of the MSc Strategic Leadership programme, is carving a unique path as a Digital and Innovation Consultant, Creative Writer, and founder of Women in Tech North East CIC, with a little help from Newcastle University’s START UP team.
Photo credit: Andrew Pounder
Tell us about your journey with START UP
I approached the START UP team when I made my first freelance income by winning the Hachette Children’s Novel Award 2023 at the Northern Writers Awards for my creative writing.
At the same time, the voluntary network I lead, Women in Tech North East, were thinking about formalising.
After I got in touch with START UP, they paired me with Alan who’s been giving me tailored support and advice, including setting myself up for self-employment, finances and funding, and founding a social enterprise.
Since then, Women in Tech North East has successfully transitioned to becoming a CIC, I secured an Arts Council England Developing Your Creative Practice grant for my creative writing, and I’ve worked with Innovation SuperNetwork, my first major client as a Digital and Innovation Consultant.
How did you find out about the grant funding?
Discussing our future plans for Women in Tech North East, Alan let me know there were START UP grants available, and it sounded like a brilliant opportunity to meet some of our start up costs.
How did you feel about the application process and working with the team?
I created a pitch deck and filled in an application form, then I went in to pitch to three members of the START UP team.
I told them about Women in Tech North East, our plans for the next three years and what we anticipated we would do with the funding.
Alan gave me some information about what to expect on the day and some feedback on my proposal.
And it was amazing to get the funding!
What did you / do you plan to do with the funding
I asked for approximately £3000 to meet some of our essential start up costs as a CIC, including things like insurance, finance and IT support, and support for marketing and branding for our events.
How does the funding change your plans, could you have done the same without the funding?
Newcastle University START UP funding was the very first funding we received as a company, and it was a real confidence boost that we were going in the right direction.
It’s helped us to pay for some absolute essentials that we needed to set ourselves up as a CIC and it means that since then, we've been able to focus on sponsorship and collaborations with North East tech companies.
Since we’ve received the funding, we have ran four more fully-booked events collaborating with Gateshead College, Marra, CyberNorth, BJSS, Hedgehog Lab and Mercator; we have partnered with Gateshead-based Layers Studio to develop our website; and we've just arranged our first event funding sponsorship with software company Sage.
What would you tell other students who were thinking about applying for funding from the team?
Go for it!
Shy bairns get nowt.
It's a great opportunity.
Anything else you want to say about the funding and working with the Start up team in general?
Thank you for all the support you've given me and Women in Tech North East.
If you’d have told me I’d become a CIC founder, award-winning novelist and a successful freelance consultant this time two years’ ago, I would have been amazed!

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/startup/grant-funding/pete-kendall:
I attended the social enterprise sprint in 2023, which led to an application for funding to GoVolunteer and the START UP fund.
The initial idea for Thrifty Chef started through mine and my business partner Ed's involvement in the SDG (Sustainable Development Goals) Challenge in 2022 with our peer mentor.
After a successful initial pitch, we came 3rd overall and were invited to pitch to the university sustainability team who suggested applying for funding.
Transparently and clearly explained, with clear next steps outlined and a realistic approach to operations and scaling.
What did you / do you plan to do with the funding?
Advertising – Redefining our brand identity and making a banner and stamp with this new, improved logo front and center
Employing – Employing three students to continue our efforts while we undertook placement
Volunteers - They were also able to build a team of 5 new volunteers for the project, allowing us to hit the ground running next year.
New Products – Overnight oats and a grand total of £7.5K worth of food saved from waste and redistributed from nil living, not to mention allowing us to continue supporting Hector Hall at Grainger Market, taking more of their surplus than before.
It meant that we were able to have a continued presence at the university, take on more stock and improve our logo and packaging.
If you have a great idea, go for it!
You’ll receive help each step of the way.
Is there anything else you'd like to say about START UP?
Incredible, supportive team who transformed our time at University, giving us invaluable enterprise experience that still seems impossible

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/startup/founderships:
The Start-up team is working on designing a new-look accelerator experience for innovative, growth orientated business ideas.
While we don't have a timeframe, watch this space for future updates, sign up to our newsletter , Instagram and LinkedIn to keep up to date.
Please still get in touch with the team if you’d like to take your idea to the next level.
Business pre-accelerators and accelerators are intensive packages of support.
They involve coaching and mentorship, skills development and financial support.
A pre-accelerator is for business opportunities that are in development or recently launched.
They help you to establish your business.
An accelerator is for established businesses, known as 'seed-stage'.
They help you raise investment and scale up your business venture.
If you're looking for an accelerator experience now, here are some options to explore, based in the region.
Ignit e offers a 3-month business pre-accelerator for new tech companies.
They also offer a 6-month business accelerator for existing tech companies.
NatWest Ac c elerator offers a variety of programmes to help launch, grow or scale a business.
North East BIC
North East Chamber of Commerce
North East Growth Hub

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/startup/regional-support:
Support for start-ups within North East England
Newcastle has a thriving start-up scene.
Find out more about what is available within the region to help you get your business off the ground.
Co-working spaces where you can meet like-minded people and access specialist support.
Join a network or attend a social event to make new connections and drive your business forward.
Specialist packages of support to help you launch or grow a business.
Annual start-up events and conferences held in Newcastle.
General sources of support for North East businesses.
The Annual Thinking Digital Conference for those curious about technology, ideas and the future.
An event by FIRST for those looking to develop their enterprise skills.
The Startup Awards North East by FIRST for founders of all stages who want to celebrate their achievements and network within the region.
The Ignite Pre-Accelerator programme for those with ambitious tech start-up ideas.
The Ignite Pre-Accelerator showcase for those with ambitious tech start-ups.
Advanced technology facilities and programmes at PROTO.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/startup/online-resources:
On-demand resources to help you develop and test your ideas for a business start-up or self-employed freelance career.
We're here to help you explore working for yourself.
These resources can help you at any stage, whether you're exploring initial ideas, launching your business, or growing your business.
Are you interested in starting a business, but don't have any ideas yet?
This video will help you exercise your creative muscles and learn new ways to come up with more (and better) ideas in a purposeful way.
Do you want to start or grow a successful business?
This video will help you explore how to conduct market research to understand what your customers want so that you can build a viable, profitable business.
Start-up Adviser Gretel takes you through the steps to register as a sole trader, partnership or limited company, in simple, practical terms.
Start-up Adviser Steve gives you basic guidance for running a business in the UK, including an overview of relevant legislation and codes of practice on advertising, contracts, data protection and insurance.
Start-up Adviser Steve explains what makes a good business pitch, what to include in one and how to structure it.
Start-up Adviser Gretel explains what investors expect to see at every business stage and gives you some tips on how to present your financial information.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/startup/start-up-stories:
Take inspiration from the business founders we have supported
We have supported hundreds of start-ups over the years.
Large-scale companies, sole traders and everything in between, across all sectors.
Our community of founders includes:
We encourage anyone who wants to create opportunities for themselves and others to give it a try.
Read or watch some of our case studies below.
Karl Mok, founder of Friends Studio Ltd.
An interview with graduate John Harrison, founder of Solidarity Farm CIC, who works to reengage vulnerable children and young people into education through the rehabilitative effects of a farm environment.
An interview with Medicine graduate Raj Parmar co-founder of Rewire, a neurological rehabilitation app that offers personalised physiotherapy for stroke survivors.
An interview with Computer Science graduate Mike Davies, co-founder of Haystack, a careers and insights marketplace for techies.
An interview with graduate Dan Ellis, founder of the Jam Jar Cinema, a social enterprise bringing entertainment and culture to Whitley Bay.
An interview with Film Theory & Practice MA graduate Craig Hawkes founder of Kaleidoscope Creative Films Agency, a film production company.
An interview with Johnson Fernandes co-founder of Equiwatt, an energy-saving app to help communities reduce electricity use.
An interview with Sport and Exercise Science graduate Katie Stienlet, founder of DISK Sport Science, a specialist injury prevention clinic.
An interview with Engineering PhD graduate Aidan Bowes, maker of custom, hand-forged kitchen knives.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/making-applications/applications:
Making an impact through a strong application is your first step towards securing an interview.
In this section you will find guidance and resources to help you create your CV and cover letter.
Use our CV and cover letter examples for inspiration and find out how to get feedback.
Many employers will ask you to complete an online application form.
Follow our guidance to help you write a successful application.
Create an impression through your LinkedIn profile using our step by step guide.
Make your CV stand out by following our step-by-step guidance
Your cover letter is an opportunity to highlight skills and experience and show that you have researched the company
Find out how to effectively evidence your knowledge, skills and experience in an application form
Creating a LinkedIn profile gives you access to one of the largest professional networks in the world

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/making-applications/applications/cvs:
Writing a CV is a way to tell a recruiter all about you, your skills and experience - and hopefully persuade them to invite you to an interview.
Here are our tips for writing a CV that will stand out to employers.
A CV is a document that summarises your experience, achievements, knowledge and skills.
It can be the first stage of an application for a job or further study.
You can also use it as a way of introducing yourself to potential employers.
Your CV will be shaped by your personal experience, qualifications and skills, and it will grow and change with you.
It is often the first chance you have to make an impression and make yourself stand out.
Read on for our tips on writing a CV that will stand out to employers.
When tailoring your CV, make sure you add the most relevant information first.
This could be your degree, work experience or voluntary experiences.
The order is important because recruiters often scan through CVs before deciding to read it more thoroughly or reject.
Adding the most relevant information first highlights to the employer you have the skills for the job.
Your examples could come from a range of contexts such as
If the job description lacks detail, or you’re sending a CV speculatively, you may not know what skills the employer is looking for.
To help with this, use the skills listed in the job profiles on the Prospects website as a guide.
These links also have advice on the skills employers look for, and how to demonstrate them:
Instead of listing your tasks or responsibilities, make your CV stand out by highlighting key achievements.
Try to back these up these where possible.
For example, if you fundraised for a society, you could include how much money you raised.
You could also include any excellent academic results for modules or assignments in your Education section.
Using strong action verbs such as: ‘managed’, ‘implemented’, ‘co-ordinated’, ‘achieved’ will give your CV extra impact.
You can find more action verbs on our CVs & Covering Letters workbook.
Think about how you arrange your experience, skills and achievements.
You want to make it easy for a recruiter to scan through quickly and pick out your key points.
Types of CV formats:
A chronological CV lists your education and experience in reverse chronological order.
Start with the most recent and working backwards.
This is the most common style of CV and is more suited to new graduates.
It's also generally preferred by employers as it’s easy to skim through.
This may be useful when your degree subject and work experience are not related to the role.
This is because it allows you to show relevant transferable skills .
You need be very clear on what the employer is looking for and be able to provide evidence through examples .
They can be useful for experienced graduates who want to change career direction.
But for new graduates, we'd suggest a chronological CV rather than a skills-based one.
Targetjobs has more advice on whether a chronological or skills-based CV is right for you .
Use this style to apply for academic jobs such as a postdoctoral position or lectureship.
It’s usually built around three areas:
It can also include publications and conferences you’ve attended.
Find out more about specific CV formats on the following websites:
Check your CV carefully to make sure there are no spelling or grammatical errors.
Read it out loud to yourself, use the spelling and grammar tool in Word.
You could also ask a friend to proofread it for you.
Find online and in-person resources to help you use grammar and punctuation correctly:
Unless it says specifically not to, always include a cover letter .
This helps to highlight the important parts of your CV and your motivation for applying.
For more advice on writing CVs and covering letters, see our CVs and Covering Letters workbook.
CV and covering letter workbook for students (PDF: 298.2KB)
Look at example CVs to help you think about structure, content and how to highlight your skills.
You can compare your own draft and see if there’s anything you need to add or improve.
We've created some example CVs in different formats.
Find example CVs for graduate and part-time jobs below, including some sector-specific CVs.
Chronological CVs list your education and experience in reverse chronological order.
They start with the most recent and working backwards.
It's also generally preferred by employers.
Skills-based CVs can be useful if your degree subject and work experience are not related to the role.
This is because they allow you to show that you have relevant transferable skills.
This is useful for experienced graduates who want to change career direction.
However, for new graduates, we'd usually suggest a chronological CV rather than skills-based.
For most part-time roles, work experience would come before your education in your CV.
Our example CVs below can give you ideas of what to include to tailor your CV for specific sectors, as well as how to structure your CV.
You can find more CV templates and advice for various sectors, including:
For any adjustments to support accessibility, including alternative formats, please contact us .
You can also convert documents into formats that work better for you using SensusAccess.
Our online AI-generated checker, CareerSet gives you instant feedback 24/7.
CareerSet scores your CV on key skills that recruiters look for.
It focuses on impact, brevity and style.
You can use the feedback to edit your CV and re-submit it to CareerSet as many times as you like.
You can also match your CV with a job description, to help you tailor it to a specific role.
You can access CareerSet directly or via the CV and Covering Letter Pathway .
After using CareerSet, we recommend you book an online or in-person CV appointment.
Alternatively, you can send your CV to us for written feedback via MyCareer.
This will help you refine your CV further.
You don’t need to have achieved a specific score on CareerSet to do this.
CareerSet can only provide feedback on chronological CVs.
For other styles (such as skills-based), please book an appointment or submit your CV as above.
Log in to CareerSet
Students:
Log into CareerSet with your Newcastle University email address to get an authentication link.
This will log you in for the duration of one session.
Your account will be created on your first login.
Graduates:
To access CareerSet you’ll need our Newcastle University graduate voucher code .
This is listed in the CV and Covering Letter Pathway .
The Careers Service will have access to your scores and feedback reports.
This helps us develop further support and advice, but your CV is not stored in CareerSet.
All information is in line with the University’s data protection policy .
Accept the:
Click on Score My CV and upload your CV to get your feedback report
This takes about 30 seconds.
Your CV must be in PDF format:
Review your score and work your way through the feedback and tips to help you improve your CV.
For the first time you use it, click on ‘Show me around’ for a full tour of the report.
There’s no such thing as a perfect CV, so you don’t need to try to get to 100%!
We’d suggest aiming for a score above 70%, but if you’re struggling to reach that, don’t worry.
You can book an online or in-person CV appointment to get help from a CV adviser.
You can then upload your CV again to see if you’ve improved your score.
If you’re applying for a specific role, you can add a job/placement description to CareerSet.
This will allow you to see how well your CV matches, based on the keywords and skills required.
Click on Target My CV.
This can be found on the dashboard or in the left-hand menu on your report.
Then upload or copy the text to get your relevancy score and advice on how to improve this.
You can also get help from our CV advisers on tailoring your CV to the role.
Share the job description during your appointment.
If sending it via MyCareer, upload it with your CV.
CareerSet is a valuable tool for getting feedback on your CV, but there are certain things it can’t do.
Instead, you can book an in-person or online appointment or submit a query via MyCareer if you:
Before you book a CV appointment or sending us your CV for feedback, you need to complete the CV and Covering Letter Pathway on MyCareer first.
This includes uploading your CV to CareerSet.
Once you have completed the Pathway and made any changes suggested by CareerSet, you can then receive 1:1 feedback from a CV adviser.
Book a CV appointment
You can also send your CV (in Microsoft Word ) to us for written feedback.
Click on Queries/CV in MyCareer to submit your query and CV.
Academic CVs focus on academic achievements, research interests and specialist skills.
If you're an aspiring lecturer or researcher then this type of CV is for you.
The following websites provide advice on writing CVs for academia:
We've created a guide to CVs for academic researchers below.
This should be used for applying to academic positions.
For positions in industry, use a two page chronological CV.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/making-applications/applications/cover-letters:
A cover letter is a document you send to an employer alongside your application.
It helps to introduce you and outlines your interest in the role.
Your CV should always be accompanied by a cover letter.
This is unless the employer tells you otherwise.
It is a key part of your application.
Your letter should:
Your letter should only be one side of A4 and you should use the same font style and size used in your CV.
We also run regular workshops on writing cover letters during the academic year.
We'd suggest the following structure for your cover letter.
The order for the second (why you) and third paragraph (why them) is flexible.
You can swap these around if you prefer.
You can split this paragraph into two, depending on how much you have written.
It may be relevant to include other information in your covering letter.
This could be explaining the circumstances of disappointing academic grades.
Come and talk to us if you have concerns about explaining these or other issues in your letter.
To do this, b ook a CV appointmen t via MyCareer.
For advice on asking for adjustments from an employer, see these websites:
See our example cover letters to help you think about structure and content.
They can also give you ideas on how to demonstrate your skills.
Compare your own draft and see if there’s anything you need to add or improve.
Find further advice about writing cover letters on these websites:
For more advice on writing CVs and cover letters, see our CV and covering letter workbook for students (PDF: 298.2KB)
Not all jobs are advertised.
You can reach out to companies directly to ask about opportunities.
This is called a speculative application.
A good starting point is to contact small to medium sized companies.
Larger organisations tend to have more established routes for work experience.
When writing speculative applications, be as specific as you can about what you are looking for.
Consider giving the employer a range of options.
If there are no vacancies available in the company, you could get involved another way.
This could be work experience, shadowing or even the chance to meet and ask questions.
See a speculative cover letter example and tips on how to write a speculative cover letter:
Speculative graduate job cover letter example
Making speculative applications for graduate jobs
How to write a speculative application for an internship
How to follow up a speculative application
Follow up a speculative application with a polite phone call or email a week later.
This shows you're proactive and motivated.
Reiterate your interest in working for the organisation and the reasons why you're a suitable candidate.
Keep your call or email brief and thank the hiring manager for considering your application.
For more advice on writing an effective cover letter, see the following websites:
CareerSet scores your cover letter on key skills that recruiters look for.
It focuses on impact, brevity and style .
You can use the feedback to edit your letter and re-submit it to CareerSet as many times as you like.
You can also match your letter with a job description, to help you tailor it to a specific role.
You can access CareerSet directly or via MyCareer .
After using CareerSet, we recommend you book an online or in-person CV appointment to go through your cover letter.
Alternatively, you can send your cover letter to us for written feedback via MyCareer.
If you would like any of the content in an accessible format , you can request this from CareerSet.
See their accessibility statement for details.
Click on Review my Covering Letter.
Upload your cover letter.
Your cover letter must be in PDF format:
You can also copy and paste the job description you want to compare your cover letter to or choose an example.
Review your score and work your way through the feedback and tips to help you improve your cover letter.
There’s no such thing as a perfect cover letter, so you don’t need to try to get to 100%.
You can then upload your cover letter again to see if you’ve improved your score.
The Careers Service will have access to your scores and feedback reports to help us develop further support and advice, but your cover letter is not stored in CareerSet.
CareerSet is a valuable tool for getting feedback on your cover letter, but there are certain things it can’t do.
Before you book a CV appointment or send us your cover letter for feedback, you need to complete the CV and Covering Letter Pathway on MyCareer first.
This includes uploading your CV/cover letter to CareerSet.
You can also send your cover letter (in Microsoft Word ) to us for written feedback.
Click on Queries/CV in MyCareer (top right hand corner) to submit your query and CV.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/making-applications/applications/applications:
Many employers and educational institutions ask you to apply online using an application form.
This can be instead of, or as well as, submitting a CV.
Employers use application forms as a selection tool.
You might be asked to complete one instead of or as well as a CV.
Employers are looking for evidence that:
Recruiters also use application forms as a de-selection tool.
Forms with incomplete answers or which don’t fully evidence your skills are likely to be rejected.
If you're completing an application form for postgraduate study, see our guidance on .
Doing some research before you start to complete your application form is vital.
Find out as much as you can about the position and r esearch the organisation you are applying to.
Gather the information you’ll need to complete the application form before you start.
This can include academic grades and details of any work experience or jobs, including the dates you worked there.
The job description and person specification will help you identify the skills, qualities and experience the employer is seeking.
You’ll need to think of specific examples of when you have demonstrated these.
Your examples could come from a range of contexts such as:
If the job description doesn’t go into detail about the skills the employer is looking for, Prospects can help:
These websites include useful information about writing successful application forms:
Most application forms have set sections for you to complete, for example:
Other questions/sections you might come across include:
When structuring your answers to competency-based questions, use the ' STAR ' approach :
Briefly provide context to help the employer understand the example you're giving.
You don't need to go into a lot of detail at this stage.
Provide a concise overview, ensuring that your example is relevant to the question.
This part should form the bulk of your answer.
Describe and analyse your actions, explaining what, how and why you did it and the reasons you took that approach.
It’s important to be reflective, rather than just descriptive.
Include any impact your actions made and any key achievements.
You could also consider including any obstacles or challenges and how you overcame these successfully.
Avoid ‘ we ’ if talking about a situation in a team.
The employer wants to know what you did.
Focus on your role, contribution within the team and how you worked effectively with others.
What was the outcome?
Did it make a difference?
What did you learn from this example and how might you apply that learning in future?
Remember, it's not just what you did, but how you did it that is important.
Recruiters often include questions that find out whether:
See our example questions below.
Employers use competency-based questions to find out about your skills and experience and how they relate to the role.
Use specific examples to show when and how you used the relevant skill.
Examples questions include:
Try to use a range of recent examples in your answers, rather than just focusing on one area.
These could come from:
Your experience may not be directly relevant, but you need to show how the skills you developed relate to the position.
Employers are more interested in your approach to situations and what you learned, rather than the context.
Recruiters want to know how much you know about the role, why it interests you specifically, and how it fits into your career plans.
They're looking for someone who'll provide value to their team, who wants to grow and progress within this role and with the company.
Show that you’ve done your research and understand what the role entails.
Explain how your skills and experience make you suitable for the post.
You could think in terms of responsibilities, where the role fits into the organisation, the type of clients you'll be working with, etc.
Be enthusiastic and talk about what appeals to you about both the position and organisation.
You could include your knowledge of the business, the industry and how the role fits with your career aspirations and goals.
Always try to make the connection between what the job requires and your own skills and experience.
Try to avoid focusing only on what’s in it for you.
The job may give you the chance to learn new skills and develop, but the recruiter also wants to know about the benefit you would bring to them.
Try to align your interests with the organisation and how your skills and experience can contribute to their goals.
The recruiter wants to understand your motivation for applying and how you’ll fit into the company’s culture.
In your application answers, be specific and show that you’ve done your research:
You can also show interest through events you've attended or through employees you've made contact with.
Visit our Events page to find out more about our recruitment fairs and employer events.
The Careers Service can provide feedback on application forms through online and in-person guidance appointments with a careers consultant .
You can also send your application form to us for written feedback.
This can take up to 5 working days, so please ensure there’s plenty of time for us to respond before the application deadline.
Click on 'Queries’ in MyCareer (top right-hand corner) to submit your query and application form.
Please also include a copy or link to the job description/person specification.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/making-applications/applications/linkedin-profiles:
LinkedIn is the world's largest professional network with hundreds of millions of members.
Create an effective LinkedIn profile using our tips and resources.
To join LinkedIn and create your profile:
LinkedIn has produced a series of YouTube videos aimed at students and graduates.
These show you how to set up your LinkedIn account and begin using it for your career.
Project the image you would like to present to employers.
You don’t have to have a professional photo taken but you should look smart, friendly and approachable.
LinkedIn profiles with photos receive 21 times more profile views and 9 times more connection requests .
Your headline is the text displayed below your name.
Headlines act like a brief personal statement highlighting your skills and career interests.
You have 120 characters to market yourself.
Emphasise what you are doing now and what you want to do in the future.
You can be creative but think about who your audience is.
LinkedIn will ask you to select an industry for your headline.
If you're not sure what industry you're interested in, you can select 'Higher Education' as an option.
It is important to be easy to find when people search for you online.
Set your LinkedIn profile to 'public' and create a unique URL , eg www.linkedin.com/in/JohnSmith.
The About section is the summary that sits beneath your name and profile picture.
It is a very important part of your profile, but it should be concise.
Don’t repeat the whole of your LinkedIn profile.
Think of it as a ‘pitch’ and highlight what you have to offer potential employers.
Add any relevant work experience .
List jobs (paid or voluntary, part-time or full-time) you’ve had with a brief description of what you were responsible for and what you achieved.
If you haven’t got any related experience, list any work experience you’ve had but make sure you highlight the relevant skills you developed.
targetJobs: Skills and Competencies explains common skills graduate employers look for and how to demonstrate them.
LinkedIn puts all included experience in reverse chronological order.
Only current positions can be reordered.
So, you might want to think carefully about what you include here.
What will the employer see first?
Is that the experience your potential employer would be most interested in?
LinkedIn lists your experience ahead of your education in your profile.
LinkedIn will prompt you to fill in the following fields in your education section:
This relates largely to the US education system and ‘School’ here can mean your university.
We recommend focusing on the ‘Description’ section, to highlight your relevant course content and transferable skills.
This is more important that filling in your ‘Activities and societies’ (unless these are particularly relevant).
You can always add your activities and societies at the end of the description manually.
Your module catalogue can help you identify some of the skills you should gain from your course.
If you aren’t sure how to market your degree and related skills, you can book a careers appointment.
Keep these sections of your profile regularly updated.
You can also add media to the experience & education sections if you have anything relevant you’d like to show a potential employer.
You can add up to 50 skills to the Skills & Endorsements section of your profile.
Listing relevant skills helps others understand your strengths.
This can help match you with potential opportunities.
Once you add your skills, your connections can endorse them.
Endorsements allow your connections to confirm that you have a particular skill.
This adds credibility to your profile.
If you endorse someone else on LinkedIn, it’s likely that they will return the compliment.
You can use LinkedIn to ask for recommendations from your connections.
Recommendations can be from academics, employers from work experience, part-time jobs .
These act like references in advance and are valued by employers.
There’s no limit to the number of recommendations you can request.
Once you have completed the basics and are happy with your profile, you can share your public profile .
Your public profile is a simplified, fully visible version of your complete LinkedIn profile.
It will show up in search engines.
You can then expand your connections to build your network.
You can also build up the other sections of your profile.
For further guidance on creating your LinkedIn profile, see these websites:
The Careers Service can help you develop and improve your LinkedIn profile.
Attend our online careers workshops on LinkedIn.
For dates and times, see our events .
We can provide feedback on your LinkedIn profile through online and in-person CV appointments.
Log into MyCareer and click on 'Book', then 'Appointments' to choose a time to suit you.
Alternatively, you can request written feedback on your LinkedIn profile - this can take up to 5 working days.
Click on 'Resources' in MyCareer (top right hand corner) to submit your query.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/making-applications/interviews-assessments/interviews:
An interview is your chance to show employers that you have the skills, motivation, and values that make you right for a role.
Congratulations, you've been invited to an interview, recruitment test or assessment centre.
During the interview, your knowledge of the position and organisation will be explored, along with your skills and experience.
Prepararing for your interview will help you to feel more confident on the day and it will also impress the recruiter.
The interview format used by an employer will vary.
Here we cover the types of interview you can expect and how they're structured.
You may be invited to a face-to-face interview with one person or a panel.
Panel interviews are with two or more representatives of the organisation.
See this targetjobs article on how to face more than one interviewer.
It's possible you could attend a group interview with multiple candidates.
For advice on what group interviews can involve and how to prepare, see these websites:
These methods are increasingly used as a way of screening candidates before a face-to-face interview.
They may also be an alternative to a face-to-face interview.
Telephone interviews are usually pre-arranged, but not always.
You should prepare for a live or pre-recorded video interview or a telephone interview in the same way you would for a face-to-face interview.
You can video record yourself answering questions using our practice interview tools , Shortlist.Me and Graduates First.
For further advice on video and telephone interviews, see the following websites:
The time allowed to read and comprehend questions in pre-recorded video interviews is usually limited.
Students with some disabilities might find this particularly challenging.
You may want to share with a potential employer that you have a disability if you think a video interview is going to disadvantage you.
Companies should be able to make alternative reasonable adjustments if given enough notice.
For example they could offer a Skype or telephone interview instead.
You can discuss whether you should share information on a disability with one of our careers consultants .
This free advice is also available from EmployAbility .
Your interview could be structured in a variety of ways.
You will be asked to provide examples of the skills or competences that are key to the job.
For example, you may be asked to provide an example of:
Check the job description for key competencies needed in the role.
targetjobs and WikiJob have more information on this type of interview.
They also highlight the key competences employers look for in candidates.
Some recruiters use strengths-based interviews rather than competence-based.
These recruiters include: EY, Nestle, Norwich Union and Standard Chartered.
Strengths-based interviews focus on your natural aptitudes and strengths and seek to find out what you ‘love to do’, rather than what you ‘can do’.
For more advice and examples, see:
You will be asked questions about specific technical skills relevant to the job, for example programming skills.
See the following websites to help you prepare:
The Forage website offers a free virtual experience programme on Technical Interview prep.
This includes a whiteboard challenge, coding test and a case study.
See also their 5 Technical Interview Questions For All Careers article.
Most interviews are formal in style.
However, employers in some sectors, eg design, architecture and media, may have more informal interviewing techniques.
These can have a more relaxed and conversational.
The people interviewing you want to put you at ease and get to know you.
Try to relax, but take care to remain professional, they are still assessing you.
See targetjob's guide to succeeding at an informal interview .
You need to research the job you're applying for, the organisation you're applying to, and the sector.
You need to show the employer that you understand what the position and area of work involves.
Be enthusiastic, consider what appeals to you about the role.
How does it fit with your career aspirations and goals?
Try to focus on key aspects of the organisation, such as:
Don’t only use the company’s website to do research.
Look at our researching employers page for links to company profiles and news sites.
Employers will be assessing your commercial awareness (also known as ‘business acumen’).
Keep up to date with current affairs, trends and important topics in your field.
What are the challenges facing the industry and what impact might they have?
Take a look at our researching employers page to help you find relevant industry news.
Targetjobs' Organisations section is a particularly useful resource if you’re applying to large graduate recruiters.
Speaking to employers at our events and on LinkedIn can also help with your research.
Review the skills and experience the job requires.
These are often highlighted in the job description or person specification.
Think of specific examples when you have demonstrated these skills.
Your examples could be from work experience, a part-time job, volunteering or from within your degree course.
If you're not sure what the employer is looking for, the skills section under the relevant job profile on Prospects can help as a guide.
For advice on identifying your skills, see:
Be prepared to discuss the skills, experience and achievements highlighted on your application form or CV in more detail.
Expect your answers to be challenged with follow-up questions and be prepared to explain any gaps or changes in your career history.
Admit mistakes, but be positive about what you've learnt from them and don't blame others, for example a teacher for poor results.
A good way to structure your answers to competency questions is by using the ‘ STAR’ technique.
You should briefly provide some context to help the employer understand the example you are giving.
Provide a concise overview of the task, ensuring that your example is relevant to the question.
State what action you took, focusing on your contribution .
Explain what, how and why you did it and include any impact your actions made.
Avoid ‘we’ if talking about a situation in a team.
What did you learn from this example?
Remember, it's not just what you did, but how you did it.
Be specific in your answers.
For further advice on using 'STAR' successfully, see the following websites:
We've listed some common interview questions on topics such as:
Read our tips on how to answer the different types of questions.
Opening questions at interview are a chance to ease you in and allow the interviewer to get to know you.
The interviewer can get a summary of your experience and skills.
Try to keep your answer focused and relevant and highlight related experience and achievements.
Show that you understand what the role entails and explain how your skills and experience make you suitable for the post.
Be enthusiastic, talk about what appeals to you about the job.
Talk about your knowledge of the business and the industry.
How does the role fit with your career aspirations and goals?
Make the connection between what the job requires and your own skills and experience.
Show that you have done your research and understand what the position/area of work involves.
Think in terms of:
Demonstrate an understanding of the position and what it entails.
Be honest, but keep your answer positive.
Explain how you would overcome any problems or issues.
Explain that you have found out what the organisation does, that it is what you want to do and that you are capable of it.
You could refer to:
See Guardian Careers and The Muse for more advice on answering the question 'why do you want to work here?'
This is your chance to sell yourself and demonstrate how your key competences match the company’s needs.
Mention any relevant achievements from your CV or application form.
Highlight how your skills and knowledge would benefit the organisation.
Make sure that you've researched the organisation before the interview.
Try to focus on key facts such as:
Don’t only use the company’s website to do your research.
Newspapers, such as the Financial Times , can be useful for finding out more information.
Think also about the impact any challenges/issues may have on the company and/or their clients.
Our Sector-specific Information has useful links which may help with your research.
You may be asked about the current business climate, as employers are looking for people who are commercially aware .
See LawCareers.net for trending commercial issues to know about in 2023.
A similar question might be, 'Tell me about a company which is doing particularly well/not so well at the moment and why is that?'
Having an interest in a career is important in motivating you to do it well.
Employers will also be looking to see if you have analysed your own skills and matched these to the job.
Your answer should demonstrate both your own self-awareness and your knowledge of the work.
Try to show how the role matches your strengths with the skills and aptitudes required by the employer.
A similar question could be 'Why have you applied for this kind of work/career?'
Have you thought ahead about where you are going and why?
Employers don't expect goals to be rigidly defined although they do expect you to have some idea.
Research the sector to see what career progression you could realistically expect.
Look at any graduate profiles on the company's website or search for relevant LinkedIn profiles for inspiration.
You could also focus on skills you'd like to develop further in the future.
CareerMatch has some useful advice on answering this question.
Make sure that you demonstrate consistency in the types of job and organisations that you mention.
This question is exploring your values and self-awareness.
Are you motivated by money, altruism, responsibility or something else?
Try to relate what motivates you to the requirements and duties of the job you are applying for.
Demonstrate that you are self-motivated and don’t always need an external push to get you started.
You could also be asked to give examples of things you have done where your own motivation was a significant factor.
You may also be asked how or why you chose a specific university or degree subject.
Questions such as these provide a good opportunity to emphasise your decision-making skills.
Be specific about how you came to choose this particular subject and how it has worked out.
Employers want to know that you can make reasoned, informed decisions.
Show enthusiasm and a real interest in your subject.
You could describe how you keep up to date with any developments etc.
If asked about what you like least about your course, be honest and provide a good reason, while staying positive.
The employer will want to know why you chose your project or dissertation, how you undertook it and what you got out of it.
Read through your project/dissertation before the interview to refresh your memory.
If it was a group project, they will be interested in how you fitted into the team.
This could include: what role you took, how you co-operated with the other members and how you dealt with any problems.
Make sure you use ‘I’ rather than ‘we’ in your examples.
With individual projects, you could talk about working independently, research and problem solving.
Highlight any techniques you learnt that you may use in this role.
Talk about the skills and knowledge gained from your degree.
You could also discuss other university activities eg.
representing your course on a committee.
Be positive and give examples of successes you have had on your course.
Mention any other activities during your studies and focus on your skills.
Demonstrate to the employer what you have learnt from your experience.
Discuss what you would have done differently.
Don’t blame others or the course itself.
You could be asked questions like:
For these types of questions, give specific examples to demonstrate skills you've developed, knowledge you've gained and self-awareness.
Try to make your examples relevant to the job you are applying for.
Talk about teamwork, leadership, achievements and being goal orientated.
Give specific examples of how you used these skills.
Remember, leadership involves a whole range of skills, including:
Pick a scenario where you dealt with the situation well and the outcome was positive.
Always give examples of what you did and how you diffused the situation.
Use the STAR technique to describe the situation, the task, your actions, and the result.
Focus on your people skills, particularly listening and negotiating.
Show how you balanced your approach between productivity and ensuring the individual felt listened to.
Other questions could be about when your views differed from those of other team members.
You may be asked to give an example of a situation where you found it difficult to communicate with someone.
The employer is looking for evidence that you are assertive, interpersonal and can negotiate.
Focus on how you resolved any issues.
When discussing these situations, focus on your ability to resolve these successfully.
Highlight what you learnt and how you saw the situations from other peoples' points of view.
Demonstrate how you can strike a balance between being sensitive to the needs of others with an ability to be assertive if needed.
Give an example of when you have taken appropriate action unprompted by anyone else.
How did you handle the situation?
You should demonstrate:
Use the STAR technique to structure your answer.
Use the STAR technique to do this.
Your situation could come from your academic experience, vacation work or extracurricular activities.
This question allows you to highlight your key skills and show the interviewer how they relate to the job.
Illustrate your self-awareness and be honest but show yourself in positive light.
For example, you get frustrated when others don't pull their weight or you used to have problems with paperwork or time management.
Give a real example that isn't essential to the role and show how you are taking steps to work on your weaknesses.
For more advice on answering this question, including what is your greatest strength, visit CareerMatch .
Give an example of where you have overcome obstacles to achieve something you are proud of.
Don't worry if you don't have a lot of work experience, you can talk about achievements outside of work.
Make sure you can relate them where possible to the job that you are applying for.
You could also be asked 'What two or three accomplishments have given you the most satisfaction?
Why?'
This is an opportunity to show your awareness of the organisation's working culture.
Make sure that matches the environment that company has.
Don’t spend too long talking about the mistake itself.
Focus on the steps you took to rectify it and what you learned from it.
You may also be asked how you think a friend or lecturer who knows you well would describe you or what words your friends would use to describe you.
This is an opportunity to sell yourself and highlight the relevant skills you have.
However, this also opens up the interview to other questions so be prepared to elaborate on what you say.
You may want to ask where you should start, eg with your personal life, academic life or work experience.
The examples you give should stand out, be memorable, whilst also relating to the requirements for the job.
Show confidence in yourself (but not arrogance) and show how suitable you are to the job, for example:
'I am a team player, I take direction and have a desire to succeed.
I like a challenge, my background demonstrates excellent problem-solving abilities and I always see a project through to the finish'.
Some graduate employers are introducing 'strength-based interviews' into their recruitment process.
In these, the interviewer will focus on the things you love doing over the things you can do .
With strength-based questions, employers listen out for the speed the questions are answered and your tone of voice.
We usually describe natural strengths most easily and enthusiastically.
It's more difficult to prepare for this type of interview in advance.
However the following questions may help you start to think about your own strengths:
It's normal to be asked at the end of an interview if you have any questions.
Sometimes the quality of your question(s) is used as part of the assessment process.
However, if you can't think of a good question, avoid asking one just for the sake of it or asking a very basic question which has already been covered.
Questions could come from your research, or be about training, responsibility, opportunities, mobility, etc.
For example: 'I noticed that you've started working on X project.
Is this something that I could get involved with?
Try not to ask questions where the answers can easily be found in the company brochure or on their website.
You could ask about:
Prospects has a list of 7 good questions to ask at an interview.
Guardian Careers have posted about asking questions in job interviews , with some useful examples.
The focus is likely to be on your academic skills and interests.
Interviews for postgraduate study can vary greatly between institutions and even departments.
They tend to be more informal and there is no standard structure in terms of length, content and number of interviewers.
For example, an interview for a taught Master's course is often less involved than a PhD.
Find further information on these websites:
For information and tips on medical and dental school interviews, see Applying to medical school and Applying to dental school .
See Teacher Training Interviews to help you prepare.
The following websites offer further information on academic interviews:
See also the Careers Service reference book 'Moving on in your career - a guide for academic researchers and postgraduates', for help with preparing for difficult questions.
If you are being interviewed for a position as a lecturer or postdoctoral researcher, you may also be asked to deliver a lecture or presentation .
The following websites include example interview questions:
Graduates First's Question Identifier Tool (QIT) assessment can help you identify likely questions that could come up in a competency-based interview.
It is free for Newcastle University students and registered graduates.
See below for details on how to access Graduates First .
The Careers Service can help you practise and improve your interview technique through our 1:1 appointments.
Login to MyCareer and use our Appointment Finder tool to help you book the right appointment type for you.
Alternatively, for written advice on preparing for your interview, please submit a query via the Resources tab on MyCareer and an adviser will get back to you within 5 working days.
Video interviews are becoming increasingly popular with graduate employers in the early stages of recruitment.
They can save companies time and money, as applicants can record their interviews from home.
This can be useful for candidates too, as you can choose a time that suits you to complete it.
However, they’re not without their challenges.
Not everyone is comfortable on camera and it can be distracting to see yourself on screen.
It is also a much less personal experience as you won’t be speaking to a real person, and so there are no non-verbal cues to help you gauge your performance.
You’ll typically be presented with written questions or a video of an interviewer asking pre-recorded questions.
You’re given a short amount of time to think about your answer, then you’ll have to record your answer on video within a set time limit.
To help you prepare for video interviews, it’s really useful to practice to get a sense of what it’s like before you do the real thing.
With our video interview practice platform Graduates First, you can review your recordings after the interview to see how you come across on screen.
As well as reviewing the content of your answers, think about your body language and tone of voice – how effective are these?
This is a great opportunity to put yourself in the place of a recruiter – what did you do well and what could have been improved?
Current students and registered Newcastle University graduates can use the Graduates First video interview software to:
Graduates First also includes example psychometric tests, game based assessments and examples of case study and in-tray exercises.
If you have any technical problems with the tests, please contact Graduates First at enquiry@graduatesfirst.com .
The Careers Service will not be able to help with any technical issues.
To access the practice interviews:
You should receive an email providing you with a link to confirm your email address, and then you’re ready to start your practice interview.
If you don't receive an email after registering , please check in the Clutter folder of your Newcastle email account.
If you're a registered Newcastle University graduate , you'll need to contact us , stating your full name and email address, to request access to Graduates First.
Please also let us know if you require additional time for the tests.
This may take a few days.
If you have an interview coming up shortly, please let us know.
Once the interview is over, it’s a good idea to reflect on your performance.
Make some notes on the questions you were asked, those you thought you answered particularly well or those you could have answered better.
You may receive a job offer.
Initially it could be by telephone, but you will always receive a written copy which you must formally accept or reject.
For more information see our Handling Job Offers page.
If you have not been successful this time, it might be a good idea to ask the employer for feedback as this will help you in your future interview preparation.
targetjobs has useful information about requesting feedback.
If you are getting first interviews but not being offered second interviews or job offers, then you may want to discuss your interview technique with a careers consultant .
The Careers Service provides advice and resources to help you prepare for interviews.
There are also a range of useful websites that provide further advice.
You can get help with preparing for interviews through our in-person and online 1:1 appointments .
Log into MyCareer , click on 'Book', then 'Appointments' and use our Appointment Finder tool to book the right appointment type for you.
Depending on availability, we may also be able to offer you an interview coaching session with a careers consultant, where you'll have the chance to practise answering interview questions.
To access this, you will need to have an interview date in place and have already had advice on preparing for interviews from the Careers Service.
We also run careers events and workshops for students, including sessions on interview techniques.
Rooms in King’s Gate would be available Monday to Friday, 09:00 – 17:00 only.
If you require a room, please call into the Careers Service, Level 1, King’s Gate to arrange or contact us , providing as much detail as possible .
(Not available at present)
Find further support and advice on these websites:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/making-applications/interviews-assessments/assessment-centres:
Assessment centres give the employer the chance to observe you and see what you can do in a variety of situations.
Many large graduate recruiters include assessment centres as part of their recruitment process.
They can typically last between a few hours and a few days.
Assessment centres can either be in person or take place virtually.
As with interviews , a key to success is preparation and presenting yourself in a positive way.
The employer will send you information in advance of your virtual assessment centre.
This will typically include technical instructions for joining and a timetable for the day.
You may also get information about any tasks you need to prepare for in advance, eg a presentation.
Make sure to read the information thoroughly.
Virtual assessment centres normally take place on platforms like Zoom, Microsoft Teams or Google Hangouts.
You may initially join a call with all other candidates and then be split into smaller ‘breakout’ rooms for other activities, eg group tasks.
It can help to trial the software you’ll be using in advance.
During the assessment day, you will have to meet and deal with a variety of people, both selectors and other candidates.
You'll take part in a range of activities, typically including a group task and an interview.
You can find advice on preparing for the various exercises on these pages.
Assessment centres can feel quite daunting, and it's important to keep your energy levels up.
Remember to:
For advice on how to chat to graduate recruiters during social breaks, visit targetjobs .
Though the above tips all still apply, here are some things to specifically think of for virtual assessment centres:
You may want to share with a potential employer that you have a disability if you think a virtual assessment is going to disadvantage you.
You can discuss in confidence whether you should share information about a disability with one of our careers consultants .
Free advice is also available from EmployAbility .
These websites provide further information on preparing for assessment centres:
Employer websites will often include further details of their assessment centres and tips for success.
You can also ask employers about their selection procedures at recruitment fairs and employer presentations .
Group exercises or discussions are a very common feature of assessment centres.
The selectors are looking for key skills such as:
To take part in a practice group exercise, look out for our 'Have a go at an assessment centre' workshops .
Remember to tailor your approach to the competencies and qualities the employer is seeking, as well as the type of role or organisation.
The following websites contain more information and advice about group tasks:
You may be asked to deliver a short talk in front of the selectors and/or the other candidates.
The selectors want to know whether you can put information across effectively.
You could be asked to prepare a short presentation on the day.
This could be about a hobby, interest or achievement, or a recent news item.
Alternatively, you may be asked to do a longer presentation that you prepare in advance.
If you're asked to prepare a presentation in advance find out as much as you can about the topic, don't be afraid to ask for more information.
Remember, very few of us are naturally talented speakers.
Almost everyone will be nervous before a presentation.
First time speakers often think nervousness is a sign that they aren't good at delivering a good presentation.
This isn't true!
All the symptoms that accompany nervousness are normal signs that your body is getting ready for something important.
Ask yourself these questions before you start planning your presentation:
Your presentation should have a logical structure, including:
Briefly introduce the presentation.
Include:
Make distinct points.
Aim for no more than about five points in a 15 minute presentation
Summarise your main points
Make sure that the content is at an appropriate level to your audience, ie not too technical or patronising.
Use examples to illustrate what you are saying.
Involve the audience, if appropriate, and don't forget to introduce yourself at the start of your presentation.
Your body language can affect the message of your presentation.
Try to relax, smile and be positive.
Avoid fidgeting or fiddling with hair, clothing or jewellery.
Follow our tips for delivering your presentation:
Practise your presentation in front of a friend and ask for feedback.
You can also practise in front of a careers consultant.
Contact the Careers Service to arrange this.
If this feels worse than the presentation itself, you could practise in front of a mirror.
Make sure you keep to the allotted time.
Find out what resources are available to you.
If there's a choice, use what you're most comfortable with.
Here are some tips for preparing your visual aids:
Try to anticipate and prepare for likely questions:
The following websites have useful information on preparing for your presentation:
In a case study task or case interview, you are typically given a question, situation, problem or challenge and asked to come up with a solution.
Case interviews are often used for management consulting or investment banking positions.
You would be expected to ask the interviewer probing questions to help you understand the situation, gather relevant information and arrive at a solution or recommendation.
You may be asked to calculate or estimate a specific number, such as market size or profitability.
For some questions, there may not be a right or wrong answer.
The employer is more interested in how you demonstrate reasoning and approach problems .
You can also be given a case study that you will need to present on paper.
Case studies can be given as a group activity or as an individual exercise.
Typically, you are given a set of papers relating to a particular situation and asked to make recommendations in a brief report.
You are being tested on your ability to:
Practise case study exercises
You can practise doing a case study on Graduates First in the video interviews section.
To access the practise case studies:
Current students
You should receive an email providing you with a link to confirm your email address, and then you are ready to start, If you don't receive an email after registering, please check your spam folder.
Graduates
If you are a registered Newcastle University Graduate, you'll need to contact us, stating your full name and email address, to request acess to Graduates First.
Please also let us know if you require additional time.
This may take a few working days.
If you have an assessment centre coming up shortly, please let us know.
The following websites provide further advice about case interviews and case studies:
Another type of exercise at an assessment centre may be role play exercises and e-tray exercises.
Role play exercises are used to assess skills such as communication, influencing, or negotiation.
It is very common if the position has lots of interpersonal interaction, such as sales and customer service roles.
They are also often used in police recruitment and for some healthcare and medical roles.
In a typical example, you would play the part of an employee being presented with a client problem or complaint.
You need to resolve the issue effectively.
The assessor would usually play the role of the client.
Role play exercises can also be used to assess suitability for managerial and leadership roles.
For example, you could be asked to play the part of a manager having to discuss and resolve a performance issue with a member of your staff.
You should research the role, know the key skills and competencies the employer is seeking and try to emphasise these .
You should also research the organisation , what are its values and principles, eg is it highly client-focused?
Manage your time and pace yourself appropriately.
Also try to stay relaxed and demonstrate your ability to work under pressure.
Get into character.
Try to forget this is an exercise and act as if it’s the real thing.
The following websites provide further advice on role play exercises:
In this type of exercise, you will be given an in-tray containing emails, telephone messages, reports and letters.
You may have an email inbox containing electronic versions of the above.
You may also be given information about the organisation to help you make decisions as to the actions you would take.
You will need to prioritise the work, draft replies, delegate tasks and recommend actions.
You will be assessed on how you handle lots of complicated information in a limited amount of time.
You may need to justify why you have made certain decisions.
For further information, see Wikijob: In-tray and TARGETjobs .
For example exercises see the following websites:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/making-applications/interviews-assessments/recruitment-tests:
Recruitment tests are often used by employers as part of the selection process.
They can also help you work out your strengths, abilities and suitability for particular careers or occupations.
Recruitment tests can be used to assess your verbal, logical and numerical reasoning skills .
They may also be used for assessing how you would react in certain workplace situations.
Generally, they are used early on in the recruitment process.
These tests are more common for larger graduate recruiters, but are also used by smaller companies .
The following websites provide further information about recruitment tests and how to prepare for them:
The time allowed in these assessments can be limited.
You may want to share with a potential employer that you have a disability if you think a recruitment test is going to disadvantage you.
Online practice tests can help you prepare.
In this section you will find links and resources where you can access online practice tests.
Graduates First offer a range of recruitment tests and advice on preparing for job assessments.
There are step-by-step guides to over 100 graduate employer's recruitment stages.
These include hints on how to pass their assessment process.
If you're a Newcastle graduate from the last 3 years, you can still access Graduate First.
Contact us on MyCareer by clicking on the Resources tab to submit your query.
Include your full name, email address and degree title and we'll create an account for you.
Let us know in the message if you require additional time for the tests.
We aim to register you within 3 working days of receiving your email.
For examples of case study tests, see our information on Assessment centres .
Personality questionnaires are used to see how you react to different situations.
There are no right or wrong answers.
The questionnaires generate a profile of you, highlighting your personal qualities and characteristics.
They are usually untimed, but you will be encouraged to complete them relatively quickly.
The following websites provide examples of personality tests and questionnaires.
Some sectors, such as medicine, business and law, have specialist tests.
Most medical schools and some dental schools use the UK Clinical Aptitude Test (UCAT) for entry to their courses.
You can try out a practice test on the UCAT website.
The Graduate Medical School Admissions Test (GAMSAT) is used by some medical schools.
Usually for the 4 year graduate entry course.
Visit the UCAS website for more details.
Practice GAMSAT questions are available to buy on the GAMSAT website , together with tips and advice.
BMAT is the admissions test for medicine and veterinary medicine used for some courses at:
More information is available on our applying to medical school page.
The Graduate Management Admissions Test (GMAT) is used as an entry requirement by most major US business schools and is used worldwide.
GoGrad.org: GMAT Guide is a US-based site.
It provides advice and tips to help prospective graduate business students plan and prepare for the GMAT.
The Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) is an admissions requirement for many graduate schools in the US.
Includes sample tests and details of test centres.
The TopMBA website includes links to the five top free GMAT preparation resources online.
The LNAT National Admissions Test for Law is used for admissions to law undergraduate courses at several UK universities including:
For more information about applying for jobs in law, see our Occupations section.
Game-based assessments are becoming more popular in graduate recruitment.
They are typically used in the early stages of the recruitment process.
Several large graduate recruiters, such as Unilever, KPMG and Deloitte use game-based assessments.
Game-based activities can be more fun for the candidate.
They are often used alongside traditional recruitment tests and assess similar qualities.
They test a candidate's natural ability and assess their response to a test they’ve been unable to prepare for in advance.
As you complete the game/s you will be assessed against competencies and characteristics chosen by the employer.
These could be cognitive ability, attitude to risk, decision-making and interaction style.
Most of the games are simple so you don’t have to be an expert gamer to complete the assessment.
The type of games used and the time it takes to complete them can vary.
You may be asked to complete several short games to test different competencies and characteristics.
Or you could be given a longer job simulation involving different types of tests seen above.
Employers may also use these tests to see if you would be a 'good fit' and compatible with their company and its culture.
Current students and registered Newcastle University graduates can use Graduates First to practice game-based assessments, including:
Graduates First also includes psychometric tests and information and examples of assessment centre activities, including case study and in-tray exercises.
See Practice Tests for instructions on how to register with Graduates First.
Find further information about game-based assessments on these websites:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/support-and-resources:
The Careers Service offers one-to-one advice and support through appointments and workshops.
We provide tailored information and a range of online resources and tools.
Access expert information and advice through our appointments and workshops.
Discover our range of free online platforms and tools, exclusively selected for our students and graduates.
Find out about opportunities and events relevant to you and your academic stage.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/support-and-resources/support:
Access expert information and advice through one-to-one appointments and workshops.
The Careers Service provides in-person and online bookable appointments throughout the year.
You can also submit a query online.
We run a programme of careers workshops which are available in-person and online.
You can also view recorded workshops.
Find out about the range of one-to-one support we offer and how to book an appointment.
Access our programme of live careers workshops or view our recorded sessions on a wide range of topics.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/support-and-resources/support/one-to-one:
Access expert advice and information through our one-to-one appointments.
Whether you're looking for guidance on your next steps, need information about where to find jobs, working for yourself, or help with your CV, we’re here for you.
You can book an in-person or online appointment or submit a query online through MyCareer .
To book an appointment, you’ll need to be:
See Eligibility for more details.
We have different appointment types on offer to match your needs.
These are:
Find out below about each type of appointment, what they cover, and how to book.
Our impartial Careers Consultants can assist you to make informed decisions about your career and education plans.
In a guidance appointment you can:
They can also offer interview coaching so you can practice, get feedback and build confidence.
To access interview coaching, you’ll usually need a confirmed interview and have had interview preparation advice from us in an Information appointment.
Need help finding the right information?
Our Information and Insights Advisers can support you in an information appointment with advice on tailored resources for:
They can also give feedback on CVs, cover letters, LinkedIn profiles, and teacher training personal statements.
Not sure what you want to do or what your next steps should be?
If so, we’d recommend starting with a guidance appointment before booking an information appointment.
It’s a great way to explore your options!
Whether you're just starting starting to think about writing your CV, cover letter or LinkedIn profile, or want feedback on a draft, our CV Advisers can help you in a CV appointment to:
Booking a CV Appointment?
Before booking, we recommend you complete the CV and Covering letter Pathway on MyCareer.
This includes uploading your CV or cover letter to our automatic online checker, CareerSet .
Thinking about working for yourself, whether as a full-time venture or a side project?
Our START UP team can help you explore working for yourself at any stage.
Whether you want to explore an idea or have already launched a business or freelance career, ay a START UP appointment you can access our help:
How to book an appointment
It’s quick and easy, and we’re here to help you every step of the way.
To make the most of your time with us, here are a few things to keep in mind:
Attending your appointment
We recommend you download the Teams app in advance to avoid any delays.
If you're based in China, Cuba, or Venezuela, access to Microsoft Teams may be limited due to local restrictions.
If you need any adjustments to access our support, such as extra time, an alternative format or communication support, please contact us via MyCareer or email careers@ncl.ac.uk .
If you're thinking about studying at Newcastle and have questions for the Careers Service, please email us at careers@ncl.ac.uk
We offer a confidential service.
We won’t share your information outside the Careers Service unless we believe you're at risk of harm, in that case, we may need to involve an external agency.
If you're struggling to find the right appointment or information, or need help but you're not able to book an appointment:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/support-and-resources/support/workshops:
The Careers Service runs a programme of in-person and online workshops throughout the academic year.
Our workshops are hosted by Careers Service staff and external speakers.
Join our sessions to gain information and advice and ask questions.
Our programme of workshops covers topics such as:
Make sure to follow our social media channels - @nclcareers and @nclstartup - to keep up to date with the latest Careers Service events.
To see our full programme of workshops and register, visit our Events page.
This playlist includes videos on:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/support-and-resources/online-resources:
The Careers Service provides access to a range of online tools and resources.
You can access our range of free online careers resources, which includes:
Find out about what is on offer through our MyCareer platform, which includes:
Access free online careers tools and resources.
Find out about what is on offer through our MyCareer platform and how to access support.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/support-and-resources/online-resources/tools:
Access instant practice, feedback and information, on a range of career topics, at any time.
The Careers Service provides access to a range of free online platforms and tools.
These are exclusively for our students and graduates.
You can access support with your applications and interviews which use AI technology.
Find information about opportunities, self-employment and support for students with disabilities.
CareerSet gives you access to AI-generated feedback on your CV or covering letter.
CareerSet only provides feedback on PDF documents.
CVs must be in a chronological format.
You can request content in an accessible format from CareerSet when you log in.
Log into CareerSet with your Newcastle University email address.
Receive an authentication link and create an account.
Use our Newcastle University graduate voucher code to log in.
You can find this in the CV and Covering Letter Pathway and on the graduate homepage of MyCareer.
Practice video interviews for free with Graduates First .
You will also receive AI automated feedback via email.
You can also review your recordings after the interview and reflect on:
How to use:
Log in and select ‘Video Interviews’ as your assessment package.
Choose either a competency or strengths-based interview.
You can leave the ‘industry package’ blank.
You can request additional time (25%) when registering.
If you experience any technical problems, contact Graduates First at enquiry@graduatesfirst.com .
How to access Graduates First:
Log in to Newcastle University Graduates First portal with your Newcastle University email address .
Get an authentication link and create an account.
Contact us for access, stating your full name and email address.
Let us know if you need additional time for the tests, as this may take a few days to set up.
Practice a range of psychometric tests for free with Graduates First .
You'll receive a detailed report immediately after you have completed each test.
This will include advice on your strengths, areas for development and how to improve your performance.
They also offer step-by-step guides to over 100 graduate employer's recruitment stages .
You can practice the following psychometric tests on the Graduates First website:
Student Circus is an online job search platform dedicated to international students.
Search their platform for graduate job opportunities from employers willing to sponsor the Skilled Worker visa.
Employers include KPMG, Deutsche Bank, McKinsey & Company, Land Rover, Siemens and many more.
To access these vacancies, register with Student Circus using your @ncl email address.
You can also find Student Circus in MyCareer in the Resources tab in the top right hand corner.
Select Student Circus - Student Access and then log in.
Log into MyCareer and click on the Resources tab in the top right hand corner.
Select Student Circus - Graduate Access and then register or log in.
GoinGlobal allows you to search for jobs, internships and employers worldwide.
You can use their country profiles for range of in-depth information, including:
To fast-track your job search and career exploration, watch quick tutorials on how to use:
Log into MyCareer then click on the Resources tab in the top right hand corner.
Lockin China is the largest recruitment platform specialising in supporting students to find employment in China.
Log into the Lockin China Job Portal
COBRA can help you find key information relating to your business idea and understand specific aspects of business.
Explore their:
Your START UP Adviser can help you access information through COBRA.
The Pay Index can help you find out:
Forage offers you virtual internships in areas such as:
These online programs are built and endorsed by leading companies, such as KPMG, Deloitte, PwC and Unilever.
Each contains a series of resources and tasks designed to simulate the experience of starting a career.
They take around 5-6 hours to complete.
You can write about these programmes on your CV as achievements and add them to LinkedIn as certificates.
Go to the Newcastle University Forage site and register for a free account.
If you have a neurodivergent condition, mental health condition or another disability, you can access additional support from an organisation called EmployAbility .
They can provide you with:
The EmployAbility team will advocate for you with an employer to;
They run programmes and events with inclusive employer partners including:
EmployAbility is not an instant-access service.
To access their free support, register or email info@employ-ability.org.uk .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/support-and-resources/tailored-information:
Access information and advice tailored to you.
The Careers Service provides a range of bespoke information and support.
We have tailored our advice to make it relevant to you, your stage or your course.
In this section you will find information about:
Learn about your rights while job-seeking and in the workplace.
Find out about events, opportunities and funding.
Find information, support and resources for international students.
Access our tailored information and support for prospective students.
Discover the opportunities and activities that are available at each stage of your degree.
Access information about the support, opportunities and events on offer for graduates.
Learn about opportunities and events and access tailored resources.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/support-and-resources/tailored-information/edi:
Know your rights when job seeking, and find out about equality, diversity and inclusion in the workplace.
The Equality Act 2010 is the UK legislation that covers equality and diversity in the workplace.
It consolidates previous separate legislation into one act.
This is to make the law easier to understand and encourage employers to comply.
The Equality Act lists nine 'protected characteristics'.
This means employment discrimination is usually against the law.
Employers must therefore treat applicants and employees equally.
The protected characteristics are:
Many employers are going beyond legal requirements and promote a diverse workplace.
The following resources offer inspiration, information, and advice in relation to equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI).
They help you know your rights about job seeking and equality in the workplace.
They also tell you what to do if you have experienced discrimination.
If you are looking for an opportunity, here are our tips on finding diversity friendly employers:
These schemes cover most protected characteristics.
Check criteria before applying.
The Equality Act 2010 made age discrimination, harassment, or victimisation unlawful.
Usually, unless they can prove that there is a legitimate reason, employers cannot set an age limit for jobs.
They can say that a graduate scheme is only suitable for those who graduated within the last few years.
This means they can set a date range for eligibility.
They can't discriminate against mature students.
If you've graduated within the number of years they've stated, you are still eligible to apply.
You do not have to put your age or date of birth on your CV and most employers no longer ask for it on application forms.
Employers should treat you equally, regardless of age, during the application process.
This also applies to you as an employee.
If you are entering the employment market as a mature graduate you have legal protection.
In fact, your experience can be an asset during the recruitment process.
A care leaver is usually defined in the education context as a young person who was looked after on or after their 16th birthday and who is aged under 26.
However, some employers recognise that any time spent in local authority care or, with kinship carers, under a special guardianship order, or being privately fostered can have an impact on educational opportunities and will provide support to reflect this.
Care leavers can face challenges and disadvantages in education, employment and training.
Some employers and organisations recognise this and have tailored policies and support available.
A definition of a carer is someone who, unpaid, looks after a friend or family member who needs extra support.
This could be due to illness, disability, a mental health problem or an addiction.
These caring responsibilities can be short or long term but can be very challenging.
Many employers recognise there are business and welfare benefits to supporting carer employees.
Employers who support carers reduce recruitment costs.
They also attract staff, reduce sickness rates and increase staff morale.
Some employers offer a carer passport .
A carer passport is a record that identifies a carer in some way.
It sets out an offer of support, services or other benefits in response.
A carer passport helps carers to self-identify in the workplace.
They can then be supported as part of the day-to-day life of an organisation or community.
Examples of support that can offered by employers to carers includes:
Look out on employer websites for carer support groups and peer networks.
This is usually a good sign that they are a more supportive employer.
12.3 million people in the UK have a criminal record .
Many only offend once, often when young, but may face certain challenges when finding work.
A criminal conviction doesn’t have to stop your career.
But people often feel nervous about sharing their past because they’re afraid of being judged or treated unfairly.
Because of this several organisations support people with criminal records, offering resources such as:
See details of these below in the more information section below.
Spent convictions (after a set time) usually don’t need to be shared.
By law, employers can’t turn you down because of a spent conviction, unless it’s clearly linked to the job.
For example, a past driving offence might stop you from becoming a driving instructor.
This is part of a UK law (the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974) to help people move on.
Unspent convictions must be shared if asked, especially for jobs needing a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check (like working with children or vulnerable adults).
This is a short written explanation that:
Unlock Disclosure Statements has examples.
If you tell an employer about your conviction, keep a written copy of what you said, and give them a copy too.
That way, you have proof if it comes up later.
The organisations below offer more resources for applicants with a criminal record.
They have specialist support and information including:
See:
The Equality Act 2010 protects disabled applicants against discrimination during the recruitment process.
It also makes disability discrimination unlawful in employment.
The Equality Act covers physical disabilities and mental health conditions.
It also includes long term health conditions, specific learning difficulties and neurodiverse conditions.
This entitles you to reasonable adjustments in the recruitment process.
Reasonable adjustments reduce or remove obstacles for disabled in the recruitment process.
They also apply to the workplace.
You do not have to have a formal diagnosis to ask for a reasonable adjustment.
You also don't have to share details of your disability if you prefer not to.
Reasonable adjustments are changes and modifications made by employers to accommodate disabled applicants.
They are also for employees.
These adjustments should ensure that disabled individuals have equal access to employment opportunities.
They prevent discrimination on the grounds of disability.
You can ask for a reasonable adjustment at any time in the recruitment process without sharing details of your disability if you choose not to.
Examples of reasonable adjustments in recruitment include:
Examples of reasonable adjustments in employment include:
Reasonable adjustments will vary depending on specific circumstances and an individual's needs.
Other factors include the size and resources of the organisation or service.
Reasonable adjustments do not give disabled candidates an unfair advantage.
They are there to ensure that disabled candidates are not disadvantaged.
You can ask for reasonable adjustments at any time.
There is no specific time limit for requesting reasonable adjustments.
When and if you decide to ask is up to you, but there are people and resources that can help.
Watch our Careers Service online presentations
Deciding whether to share a protected characteristic, such as a disability, with an employer (often described as 'disclosure' in employment terms) is your personal choice.
You would only need to share information about a disability if it had health and safety implications for you or your colleagues.
You can ask for a reasonable adjustment at any time in the recruitment process without sharing details of your disability.
See above for more on this.
While you do not have to share information, there can be benefits:
The Equality Act legally protects you.
However, you may still feel that:
These websites offer advice on when and how to share information about a disability if you choose to.
These Careers Service presentations discuss sharing information about a disability with an employer.
There are insights from Careers Service staff, students, and a graduate recruiter.
You can get free expert advice from EmployAbility if you register with them.
The Careers Service can talk to you about a disability, neurodivergence or mental health condition.
See our accessibility statement for more details of what we offer.
EmployAbility are a not for profit organisation.
They offer and charge employers for consultancy services.
This means that they can provide free support to further the rights of disabled people.
You can use them as well as the services you can get from the Careers Service
They support neurodivergent and disabled students and students with a mental health condition.
You do not need to have an official diagnosis to access them.
They also help graduates.
You can ask them if you aren't sure if you are eligible.
EmployAbility:
Register with EmployAbility to access their services.
We have information below about employers who state they are disability and/or neurodiversity friendly.
The resources below offer more advice and information on disability and neurodiversity in relation to careers.
Get free expert advice on reasonable adjustments from EmployAbility .
See more about EmployAbility and what they offer above.
You can also discuss asking for reasonable adjustments with a careers consultant.
Estranged students are defined as those who are studying without the support or approval of their parents or carers, due to a breakdown in their relationship.
To be considered an estranged student, this situation is a permanent one.
Estranged students can face equality gaps.
They may have additional support needs in university and when entering their career.
There are resources available to support estranged students in education, and in their careers.
Discrimination, harassment, or victimisation because of a person’s sex is unlawful.
The Equality Act 2010 covers this and applies to both females and males.
Gender reassignment or sexual orientation are in a separate section of the act, under LGBTQ+.
There are a few exceptions where the sex of the candidate is an occupational requirement.
This would be in the job specification.
Your gender will not affect the graduate employers you can apply to.
However, there are still sectors dominated by certain genders.
Some employers take part in positive action recruitment initiatives.
These address gender-related underrepresentation in their industries.
They include awards, internships, and insight programmes.
Employers cannot lawfully discriminate against anyone who identifies as LGBTQ+.
It’s your decision if you want to share your sexual orientation to an employer.
The Equality Act 2010 means if you do want to share your sexual orientation, you are legally protected.
An employer can't discriminate if you have the protected characteristic of gender reassignment.
A wide range of people identify as trans.
The Equality Act protects you if you have proposed, started, or completed a process to change your sex.
This applies during the application process as well as when you are in the workplace.
Many employers recognise the benefits of recruiting a diverse workforce.
Some run programmes, internships and insight days designed for LGBTQ+ students and graduates.
The following sites feature employers who encourage applications from LGBTQ+ students and graduates:
The Equality Act 2010 made it illegal for an employer to discriminate because of race or ethnicity.
The Act protects you from direct or indirect discrimination and from harassment or victimisation based on your race.
More information
Many employers commit to creating a diverse workplace.
These resources list graduate employers that have signed up to specific race diversity initiatives.
These address underrepresentation in their industries.
The legal sector has several diversity programmes, including:
It is not lawful for an employer to discriminate against you because of your religion or belief.
This is due to the Equality Act 2010 .
The law protects not only those who have a recognised religion.
It also covers beliefs like agnosticism, atheism, pacifism, veganism, and humanism.
These resources list employers who have committed to diversity and inclusion:
Social mobility is the link between a person's income and occupation and that of their parents.
Socio-economic inclusion helps people to get on through their own talents and skills.
It’s about making sure that people can use their talents and efforts to succeed.
It ensures they aren’t held back by invisible barriers.
The same career opportunities should be open to you if you come from a lower income household.
It applies if you were the first in your family to attend university and/or in receipt of a means tested grant.
Social mobility is becoming high on the agenda for graduate recruiters.
Many employers are now choosing to record the social background of applicants.
They want a more diverse workforce and the benefits that brings.
The following list employers dedicated to creating a socially diverse workforce:
In some professions there are schemes in place to offer opportunities, support and funding for students from certain socio-economic backgrounds.
Resources specific to students at Newcastle University include:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/support-and-resources/tailored-information/international-students:
Discover the support and resources available to you.
Find the extra information you need as an international student.
Returning to China and looking for a graduate job?
Join us online between September 2nd and 4th for our jobs fair and meet employers from China in a variety of industries.
You can benefit from all of the careers resources and activities we offer.
Use our service throughout your studies and for up to three years after you graduate .
This includes the following tailored support:
Use the information below to start exploring your options and applying for opportunities.
Working while studying is a great way to:
If you've never worked in the UK before, the following information can help you get started.
As an international student you may have restrictions on:
It’s very important for you to check for any restrictions before applying for jobs.
Student Progress explain these restrictions in their guide to working while studying .
The Careers Service is not authorised to give any advice on work permits and visas.
Contact the Visa Team if you have any questions or concerns about your visa.
You can also explore resources from the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA).
They offer information and advice about working in the UK during your studies.
It's likely that you will be asked for your National Insurance (NI) number when applying for jobs.
This is your personal account number for working in the UK.
It ensures that any National Insurance contributions and tax you pay are properly recorded.
If you haven’t got a National Insurance number, you can apply for one online at Gov.uk .
After applying, you will be asked to prove your identity.
This could involve:
It can take several weeks to get your number, after you have proven your identity.
You can legally work in the UK without your NI number.
However it is something most employers will ask for and expect you to have.
Employers are required by law to see evidence of your right to work in the UK before they can employ you.
This can involve looking at identity documents such as your:
Fill in the Gov.uk Prove your right to work to an employer form to receive a unique sharecode which you can give to employers.
Not all employers use this system, but it can speed up the recruitment process if an employer asks for it.
We offer many resources for students interested in working while studying:
You can also read targetjobs' guide to job hunting for international students .
Attend one of our part-time job workshops or watch our YouTube guide to discover more about finding a part-time job.
Find out:
If you are thinking of working in the UK after your studies it might help to:
Use the information below to help you get started.
Before applying for graduate jobs in the UK, explore UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI).
Check this site regularly as government regulations are subject to continuous change.
The University Visa Team can help you understand immigration routes into graduate employment.
They offer:
The Careers Service is not authorised to give advice on work permit or visa applications.
AGCAS Working in the UK guide (PDF: 478KB) answers international students’ frequently asked questions.
This includes information on:
The UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) is an excellent source of information.
They provide:
For the most up-to-date visa guidance, go to Gov.uk .
There are many resources to help you find opportunities to work in the UK after you graduate.
To get started, see our graduate jobs and explore occupations web pages.
The resources on our website are for all students to access, regardless of nationality.
You also have the option to work for yourself after you graduate.
Our START UP team can offer advice and support for anyone wanting to develop a business idea in the UK.
Search their platform for graduate job opportunities from employers willing to sponsor the Skilled Worker visa.
If you're a Newcastle graduate from the last 3 years log into MyCareer .
Click on the Resources tab in the top right hand corner and select Student Circus - Graduate Access.
Register with them and log in.
Other relevant schemes and resources:
Guides:
With the Graduate route option, you don’t need to be sponsored by an employer to work in the UK.
f you’re interested in the Skilled Worker route, you may want to know whether an employer can sponsor your visa.
The Home Office Register of licensed sponsors lists all current visa sponsors.
When using this register, be aware that organisations may only offer sponsorship for:
If an organisation is on the list, it means they have previously, or are currently, sponsoring a migrant worker.
It is not necessarily a commitment to sponsor in the future.
If an organisation is not on the list, you could still apply to work for them.
Try to start your job search as early as possible .
Deadlines for students requiring a sponsored visa are sometimes earlier than general deadlines.
Watch our 10 minute video on enhancing your chances in the UK graduate job selection process.
You could consider including information about sponsorship in your application.
For more information, see Gov.uk: UK visa sponsorship for employers .
See Making Applications below for information about how to:
You are not able to be self-employed or engage in business activity while studying on a Student Visa.
After you graduate, the Graduate Route visa allows you to work self-employed in the UK.
This lasts for 2 years after your studies, or 3 years for PhD graduates.
There are some exceptions.
For example, you cannot work as a professional sportsperson or coach.
Visit UKCISA for information about the different routes available.
If you're interested in working for yourself after you graduate, the Careers Service can support you in the following ways:
Our 15 minute video on returning to your home country covers:
Use the following resources for information about finding work in your home country, or worldwide:
International students face the same criteria as UK students when applying for work experience, jobs or courses.
It's important to think about what sets you apart from other applicants.
When making applications in the UK, you may be asked about qualifications such as:
These qualifications form part of the UK National Qualification Framework (NQF).
If you need to find out what level the qualifications from your home country compare to on the NQF, contact UK ENIC .
They are the only official provider of international qualification comparability in the UK.
UK ENIC can’t tell you how your grades compare to the grade system of equivalent UK qualifications.
They could tell you whether your qualifications can be compared to A-levels, for example, but not how many UCAS points they are worth.
When making applications we recommend that you present your qualifications as they are .
Organisations set their own criteria regarding international qualifications and the grades they accept.
You don't need to work out the UK equivalent qualification yourself.
To get an idea of whether you can apply, look for:
If you're unsure whether your qualifications meet the requirements, contact the employer or academic institution.
They should be able to tell you:
Employers in the UK expect international applicants to demonstrate a good level of written and spoken English.
There are many ways you can improve your English communication skills while studying.
Access virtual one-to-one tutorials and group sessions through the In-Sessional English Language programme .
You can ask for advice on the language and structure of your CV and cover letter.
The Language Resource Centre offers a range of self-study online and distance learning resources .
The following ideas and activities could help you practice and improve your conversational English.
154,000 Chinese students were studying at UK universities in 2022/23.
Every year many Chinese students will return to China after studying overseas.
Join our exclusive career development programme for Chinese students studying at Newcastle University.
China Career Gateway will be delivered as a four-week programme and will offer a combination of in-person and online sessions.
China Career Gateway aims to help you:
The 2025/26 programme will start with an in-person session week commencing 6 October.
By joining the programme you’ll get the opportunity to:
The programme is open to all undergraduate and postgraduate Chinese students or students interested in working in China.
You must be registered as a Newcastle University student in academic year 2025/26 to access the content.
Our International Student Pathway covers careers information you need to know about as an international student.
You'll find resources and activities that cover all stages of your journey, in one convenient place!
The pathway can help you:
To access the pathway:
You don’t need to do all the activities listed.
Select which ones you want to do and work through them at your own pace, in any order.
You can return to the Pathway and continue working through the activities at any time.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/support-and-resources/tailored-information/prospective-students:
Find out about the support on offer, and opportunities that you can access, to help you plan ahead.
As you are considering Newcastle University as a potential higher education destination, one important step is to look at the opportunities and activities on offer.
This includes support from our student services.
We have outlined below how Newcastle University Careers Service can support you.
We've also answered some of our most often asked questions from prospective students.
If you can’t find the answers you are looking for, you can connect with our team.
Find the answers to some of the most commonly asked questions below.
We provide a wide range of services for our students.
We also offer these for up to three years after you graduate.
We aim to enhance your understanding of your strengths.
We also provide opportunities to develop your skills, experience, and contacts.
We do this by supporting you to do the following:
We do this through our tailored support and fantastic opportunities and initiatives.
Our service provides:
You can access the Careers Service online from anywhere in the world.
This can be done via our bespoke portal MyCareer .
You don’t need to know exactly what you want to do after your degree when you chose your subject.
A degree can open a range of opportunities, and the subject that you choose doesn’t limit you to one sector or role.
As well as subject specific knowledge your degree will give you transferable skills for a range of graduate professions.
Picking a subject you are passionate about and enjoy is a good starting point.
We also suggest you build an awareness of some of the options available with your subject.
You can start your research into this using the tools below.
These resources explore common job roles that relate to your degree.
The roles listed on these resources are not exhaustive.
There are many potential options based on your own skills, strengths, and interests.
Newcastle University's Careers Consultants can help you explore and plan your next steps.
We provide this through 1-2-1 support.
We also offer opportunities to build your work experience and contacts.
You will have a range of career options after having completed your degree.
The route you choose will depend on your interests and your career goals.
Our careers team is here to help you explore the different paths that you could take.
Common next steps for graduates include:
Explore your options
Gaining experience outside of your degree is key.
This will enhance your career prospects after graduation.
It is also a great way to get involved in university life and make new friends.
'Work experience' is an umbrella term.
It covers most positions of responsibility or experience of a working environment.
Work experience can include many types of activities, including:
Some of these are possible alongside your studies.
You can also do them during vacations or in the case of a placement year, by adding an extra year to your degree.
You can choose to do a placement year on most of our undergraduate degree programmes.
This is possible even if you didn't apply for a degree with a placement year through UCAS.
Your placement would start after your second year of study.
You would extend your degree programme by one year.
You would complete an assessed module that reflects on your placement experience.
You would also have a Placement Adviser who will support you during your placement year.
See placement years to find out more.
While it’s your responsibility to search and apply for placements, you’ll receive plenty of support from the Careers Service.
We can help you find opportunities and make effective applications.
We encourage you to search for placements yourself as this will introduce you to the graduate labour market and help prepare you for your next steps after university.
Our NU Work Experience Directory shows where Newcastle University students have been on placement.
Select ‘placement’ in the ‘type of experience’ box and then pick your school from the drop-down menu.
The data is from Newcastle University placement and internship students from the last five years.
Use it to find out :
Part-time work is a great way to gain experience and develop valuable skills.
You can meet new people and earn money.
We support you to access part-time roles both on and off campus.
You will find vacancies for local part-time work though our careers portal ‘MyCareer’.
These include traditional ‘student jobs’ such as retail and hospitality roles.
We also advertise opportunities that may be more related to your field of study.
The Careers Service also facilitates access to short-term casual work across the university.
This ranges from clerical work and catering to events support.
You can find roles that fit with your interests and availability around your studies.
Find out more at part time jobs .
We can help whether you want to explore an idea, or have already started a business or freelance role.
You can access the following:
Find out more about our #StartedatNCL community and businesses we have supported.
Coming to university is a big transition and it is not uncommon to have doubts.
If you find yourself in this situation, there is a range of support available.
You can get advice and help from your personal tutor and the teams within Student Services.
You can access one-to-one impartial careers support.
We can talk to you about your options at Newcastle University and other institutions.
We would also encourage you to speak with your course tutors, as well as friends and family if you can.
We also have resources to help you with any concerns you may have at Changing or Leaving Your Course .
Before starting your course, you can meet with our team.
You can find out more about our careers and employability support.
Careers Service representatives are available at our virtual and on campus open days
Keep up to date with Careers Service news and events on our social media - @nclcareers and @nclstartup
If you have a query related to a specific course, you can contact the University .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/support-and-resources/tailored-information/undergraduate-students:
Our support for undergraduate students is comprehensive.
You can expect to receive information, advice, guidance and resources to help you, no matter what stage you are at.
Below is a guide to the type of support and activities you might be interested in depending on your stage.
We are always available to help you to start exploring your options.
We can help with:
Whatever stage you’re at, we can support you with finding out about graduate employers.
Applications for many graduate schemes open in September, a year in advance of the start date.
Competitive sectors, like investment banking and management consulting, open over the summer.
It is important to start researching employers , before applications open.
Our Explore Occupations pages have resources and information that will support you to find out about graduate employers across all sectors.
You can book an appointment at the Careers Service to speak to an information adviser who can show you how to research employers.
Or if you’re unsure what you would like to do after graduation, book an appointment with a careers consultant .
It can be useful to meet and network with potential employers and training providers.
You can find out more about job roles or employers and learn about opportunities.
Find out more about how to access employer events through the Careers Service:
We offer support with looking for part-time jobs and paid work experience from your first few weeks in Newcastle:
International students can attend a the ‘How to find a part time job – for international students’ workshop during semester 1.
See Events for more information.
We offer support with looking for internships.
This includes our NCL Internships scheme with local businesses and University departments.
These are in a range of occupational areas, from marketing and research to IT and project management.
They are designed to be flexible around your timetable and are available throughout the year.
NCL Internships are available throughout term time and during the summer.
Summer placements advertised from March.
Use the resources below to research other opportunities that can help you to build skills and experience:
You could get recognition for your achievements through one of our awards.
Whatever you are applying for, we can offer support and feedback on your applications.
Find out about support with your:
Explore and develop your entrepreneurial side with START UP:
International students can access tailored support and information through the Careers Service.
Visit our International Students pages for more information about:
Find out more about activities and opportunities that you could get involved in during your first year.
We link to resources advertising insight days to first year students.
Employers arrange these to allow you to get an understanding of a particular company or sector.
Insight days occur at various points throughout the year, with applications often opening in September.
For information about insight days for specific sectors see the occupations website.
Career Development – use your work experience, volunteering or part-time job to count towards your degree.
Module selection opens in April/May.
Almost all undergraduate students have the option to undertake a 9-12 month work placement.
Many of these are managed by the Careers Service.
This would take place between Stage 2 and your final year, extending your degree programme by one year.
Applications start to open in September, the year before the placement will take place.
They start to close between November and February.
Visit the Placement year section of our website.
Find information on the Careers Service Placement Year and where to find placements.
Employers tend to target students in their penultimate year for their structured internships.
As well as our NCL internships, we advertise internships from a huge range of employers in different locations on MyCareer .
Completing an internship can be a great way to gain relevant work experience, as well as helping you to decide if that job interests you.
Internships can be between 3-6 months long and typically take place in the summer.
Applications start to open in September, the year before the internship will take place.
We can help you understand the difference between graduate schemes and graduate jobs.
We offer information about how and when to apply for these.
Competitive sectors, like investment banking and management consulting, open over the summer, a year in advance of the start date, and have earlier closing dates.
See our Graduate Jobs section for more information about finding opportunities as well as links to vacancy websites.
Book an appointment through MyCareer and speak to an information adviser who can help you find sector specific graduate opportunities.
If you’re unsure what you would like to do after graduation, book a guidance appointment through MyCareer to speak to a careers consultant.
Graduate schemes are not the only route into graduate level employment.
You can also find immediate start vacancies or find jobs by making speculative applications.
The Explore Occupations section of our website includes information about where to find employers in specific sectors.
Book an appointment through MyCareer for advice on making a speculative application.
We offer support with finding and applying for further study, at any institution.
If you are considering further study, it is worth researching as early as possible in your third year, to make sure that you meet any course or funding deadlines.
See our Further Study section for more information about how to find and apply for further study.
Going into further study is a big commitment.
If you are unsure whether it is for you, then book an appointment through MyCareer and speak to a careers consultant.
Founderships is an innovative business start-up package for graduate entrepreneurs, offering work-space, funding, advice and support.
Applications open in semester two.
Register with the Careers Service to receive support for up to three years after you graduate.
Visit our tailored information for Graduates pages.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/support-and-resources/tailored-information/graduates:
You can access support through the Careers Service for up to three years after you graduate.
Find out what's on offer here.
Register as a graduate through MyCareer and you will be able to access support including:
Our START UP team can help you explore working for yourself after you graduate.
If you have graduated and aren’t sure what you want to do, you can book a guidance appointment through MyCareer to speak to a Careers consultant.
To get started with thinking about your career, see these resources:
Whatever stage you’re at, we can support you with your job search.
Most graduate schemes are advertised between September and November, to start the following year.
Some graduate schemes accept late applications.
You can apply for a graduate job at any time of the year.
For some graduate schemes employers prefer applications from graduates who have graduated within the last three years.
Use the Careers Service resources below to find more information about graduate opportunities:
If you are considering further study, see our further study pages for more information.
For help deciding whether further study is for you, book a Guidance appointment with a Careers Consultant via MyCareer.
Whether you want to explore an idea or have already launched a business or freelance career, you can access the following help:
You could apply for a START UP Foundership and receive up to £10,000 in funding and a £7,500 living stipend.
International graduates can access tailored support and information through the Careers Service.
Visit our International students page for more information about:
The Make it Happen Fund is available for graduates up to 12 months after graduation.
You can apply once per year.
Connect with Newcastle graduates on our Alumni of Newcastle University LinkedIn group
This is a great opportunity to expand your network and get ideas from others.
As well as LinkedIn you can join the alumni network: Alumni and Supporters.
Stay in touch with fellow graduates and discover events.
Graduate Outcomes is a national survey.
It collates information what graduates are doing 15 months after graduation.
You'll be contacted by email or telephone to invite you to complete the survey.
The information the survey gathers is useful to the University.
It also helps inform students about potential career paths following their studies.
Before starting the survey, you will be provided with information on:
Leaving university is a big change, and there can be lots to consider, including for your finances.
See the finance team's Life After University page for information on topics including:
See MoneyHelper for more support on financial support after leaving university.
For more information for graduates, c ontact us .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/support-and-resources/tailored-information/pgr:
We offer tailored careers advice for postgraduate researchers and research staff.
Find out about the support and resources available.
All postgraduate students have access to our resources and activities during their studies and for up to three years after graduation.
Students undertaking a PhD have a dedicated careers consultant for their faculty who can offer one-to-one support.
You can book an appointment through MyCareer .
Our Careers for Researchers Canvas course enables you to learn at your own pace and at a time to suit you.
It includes a wide range of topics and activities to help you manage your career.
The course is open to PGR students and research staff.
A research degree opens up a wide range of career options.
You could continue with research in a paid position, move into an industry role or consider self-employment or starting a business.
We have compiled some resources to help you.
Find careers information and advice on our website:
External websites:
Some PhD graduates choose to continue to work in academia.
Finding a position in your specialist area can take time.
Networking with academics in your field of research can help you to find an opportunity.
Traditional entry jobs for PhD graduates are as a research assistant or research associate.
Some graduates go on to become a lecturer or professor.
This is a competitive route.
You would need experience in:
A fellowship is another option to consider, for example through an external funder or with a university.
Jobs.ac.uk has more information about academic jobs.
You can find job vacancies on university websites or on the following websites:
See our research in academia section for more information on research careers and finding jobs in the sector.
You can also use funding council websites to find opportunities in your sector.
UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) is the umbrella body for funding councils in the UK.
Most PhD/MPhil graduates do not go on to work in academia.
Your skills, experience and knowledge are valued in a variety of roles and settings.
There are opportunities in industry or the public and not for profit sectors.
You could work in research outside of a university, for example for a research council or professional body.
Some graduates go on to become self-employed or start a business.
Visit the following sections of our website:
For more help with finding and applying for opportunities, book an appointment through MyCareer .
For help applying for opportunities, see our making applications pages which includes our Guide to CVs for Academic Researchers .
We run career events and workshops for postgraduate researchers.
Tailored events are available through your Faculty Researcher Development Programme and include:
See our e vents section for more information about our programme of events and to sign up.
Research staff who are in the early part of their career (usually up to 7 years post PhD) have access to dedicated Careers Consultant Mike Burns.
To book an appointment visit MyCareer.
If no appointments are available, you can email us through MyCareer .
The Careers Service works closely with Organisational Development , who oversee development for research staff at Newcastle University.
As a member of staff you can access training and development on a wide range of topics through the Learning Management System .
The Careers Service and Organisational Development Team work in partnership to deliver workshops for research staff.
This is an online programme with four interactive workshops over 6 weeks.
It covers:
For more information and to book a place visit the Learning Management System .
Join our two-hour online workshop focused on helping researchers find careers outside academic environments.
For more information and to book a place go to the Learning Management System .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/careers/support-and-resources/using-ai:
Generative AI is increasingly being used to support career planning and job applications.
Find out more about how you can use it to your benefit, and what to avoid.
Generative AI can create new content, such as text, images, video, or music.
It learns patterns and structures from existing data.
Examples of generative AI are Chat GPT, Google Bard, Microsoft Copilot.
Some generative AI platforms are free to access online.
You can pay or subscribe to access additional tools and functionality.
The technology has had a big impact on the way that people approach writing as a process.
Its important to understand how to use these tools effectively and responsibly.
Generative AI can be used as a starting point to get ideas or inspiration.
It could also save you some time when writing applications by providing some of the wording.
You could use generative AI for:
Don’t copy and paste content directly from an AI tool, the content should only be used as a starting point or for inspiration.
You should adapt the content by adding in more detailed information and personalising it.
When using AI to generate ideas and content for applications, you should include your own STAR examples.
Some employers can detect copied content from an AI tool.
You might be disqualified from the application process as a result.
You could also end up with an application that is identical to another candidate if they used the same AI tool.
Don’t rely on the accuracy of information generated by AI, it could be incorrect.
For example, it can generate false facts and figures.
Evaluate the content and cross reference against other sources.
The Academic Skills Kit includes advice on how to evaluate responses generated by AI.
See our Researching Employers page for resources to support you with research for career planning and job applications.
Generative AI could help you when you are writing sections of text.
You still need to create the right structure and format for your application.
See Making Applications for guidance on how to effectively structure your CVs, cover letters and application forms.
Effective prompts will save you time and minimise inaccuracies or irrelevant information.
To protect your data security do not share personal or sensitive details.
The information you enter may not be securely stored.
The Newcastle University Library have produced AI guidance.
This will help you to use AI responsibly and productively during your studies.
See the Academic Skills Kit for more information.
You can book an appointment with an adviser at the Careers Service if you need further support with making applications.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/visiting-the-library:
Everything you need to know about each of our libraries and locations
All of our libraries are available not only to our staff and students, but other members of the community can also join.
Newcastle University Library is a multiple award winning service consisting of four buildings on campus and one off campus facility.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/visiting-the-library/philip-robinson-library:
The main campus Library with resources for all subjects except medicine and law.
Bookable spaces Click & Collect
Opened in 1982, the Philip Robinson Library is the main campus Library and has resources for all subjects except medicine and law.
It was named after Philip Robinson, a bookseller in the city and benefactor to the Library.
Further information about the Philip Robinson Library:
Email : libraryhelp@ncl.ac.uk
Telephone: +44 (0) 191 208 7662
During Self Service hours only, for queries about access or lost property, telephone the Reception Desk on +44 (0) 191 208 7602
Philip Robinson Library Jesmond Road West Newcastle University Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4HQ

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/visiting-the-library/philip-robinson-library/book-a-study-space:
A range of individual and group rooms are available to book at the Philip Robinson Library.
Individual and group study rooms are available for pre-booking.
Find a suitable space, date and time and complete your booking.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/borrow-reserve-return/click-and-collect:
Request items from the Library bookshelves to collect during our opening hours
Visiting the library and browsing the shelves is still the quickest way to get the books you need, but you can request books from the shelves from the Philip Robinson Library , Walton Library , Law Library , Research Reserve and some print material via Inter-Library Loans , and pick them up at a later time.
Login to Library Search and search for the item .
Click the Request button and follow the instructions.
You can request a maximum of 10 items.
Wait for an email to tell you your items are ready for collection.
If you've requested multiple items you may wish to wait until you receive confirmation that they are all ready before coming to collect them.
Your items will be ready to collect from the Philip Robinson Library or the Walton Library.
You will be notified by email when your books are due back.
You can return books using the kiosks at the Philip Robinson and Walton libraries.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/visiting-the-library/marjorie-robinson-library-rooms:
A truly digital Library offering space to study, think, learn, collaborate and consult.
Book a group study room
The Marjorie Robinson Library Rooms is a truly digital Library offering space to study, think, learn, collaborate and consult.
Access to the Marjorie Robinson Library Rooms is by smartcard only.
Further information about the Marjorie Robinson Library Rooms:
Telephone: +44 (0) 191 208 2191
Marjorie Robinson Library Rooms 89 Sandyford Road Newcastle University Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 8HW

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/visiting-the-library/marjorie-robinson-library-rooms/book-a-study-space:
Pre-book group study rooms at the Marjorie Robinson Library Rooms.
You can book a study room that suits your needs at the Marjorie Robinson Library Rooms:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/visiting-the-library/walton-library:
The faculty library for Medical Sciences, serving the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry, Psychology and Biomedical Sciences as well as the Graduate School and Research Institutes.
Book a group study room Click & Collect
The Walton Library is the faculty library for Medical Sciences and is located on the 5th Floor of the Catherine Cookson Building.
It serves the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry, Psychology and Biomedical Sciences as well as the Graduate School and Research Institutes of the Faculty.
It is named after Lord John Walton, former Dean of Medicine at the University and renowned neurologist.
Clusters and External PCs will close 15 minutes before closing time to allow Library staff to clear and lock the Library before the Medical School entrance is locked.
Further information about the Walton Library:
Smartcard services are available at the Walton Library until 5pm.
Telephone: +44 (0) 191 208 7550
Walton Library 5th Floor, Catherine Cookson Building Medical School Framlington Place Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4HH

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/visiting-the-library/walton-library/book-a-study-space:
Pre-book group study rooms at the Walton Library.
You can book a study room that suits your needs at the Walton Library:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/visiting-the-library/law-library:
The Law Library is located in Newcastle Law School.
Bookable spaces
The Law Library is located in Newcastle Law School .
From summer 2025 onwards, we are relocating key Law print collections to the Philip Robinson Library, so print legal research resources will be situated across more than one building.
Please see our news pages for updates and contact us for support on accessing resources.
If you wish to visit the Law Library and do not hold a Newcastle University smartcard then please contact libraryhelp@ncl.ac.uk for assistance.
Further information about the Law Library:
Law Library Newcastle Law School Newcastle University 21-24 Windsor Terrace Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 7RU

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/visiting-the-library/law-library/book-a-study-space:
Pre-book a group study room at the Law Library.
You can book a study room at the Law Library:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/visiting-the-library/research-reserve:
Newcastle University Library has access to state-of-the-art off-campus storage facilities, meaning we can hold less-used material for much longer than some other academic libraries.
The Research Reserve currently houses back-runs of journals and books which haven't been consulted for over 5 years (longer in some subject areas).
Scanned copies of journal articles from the Research Reserve are available via the Desktop Delivery Service .
To make a request follow the Request Scan/Borrow link within the journal record in Library Search .
Copies will be made available for you to download if you have a Newcastle University campus ID and password.
Other customers can request a printed copy and will need to pay for this at 4p per page.
Desktop Delivery Service – Help and frequently asked questions
To borrow a journal from the Research Reserve complete the request form or follow the Request Scan/Borrow link within the journal record in Library Search which will take you to the journal request form .
To borrow Research Reserve books, place a request using Library Search .
You will need to log in first.
To request a thesis, follow the Request to Consult this Thesis link within the thesis record in Library Search which will take you to the Thesis Request Form .
Theses are available for consultation in the Library only.
Books and journals will usually be available within 24 hours at the location you chose when placing the request, however any requests placed after 9.00 on Friday, Saturday and Sunday will be available by Monday afternoon.
Access to the Research Reserve can only be made by prior appointment using the contact details below.
Archaeological collections may only be accessed by prior arrangement with the curator, Andrew Parkin .
The Research Reserve team can be contacted Monday to Friday between the hours of 10.00 and 15.00.
Email : researchreserve@ncl.ac.uk
Telephone: +44 (0) 7760 998031
Newcastle University Research Reserve
Unit 1 Dukesway Court Dukesway Team Valley NE11 0QX

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/visiting-the-library/print-services:
Print Services is located on Level 1 of the Philip Robinson Library and is open to staff, students, external customers and NHS (we are on the NHS Supplies list).
We are a large print production site offering a wide variety of products from business card size up to large signage.
Explore the range of print products on offer and submit your order using our online system.
Use your University login details to register or email your request to us using one of the email addresses below.
Browse and order online
Email :
Telephone:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/borrow-reserve-return:
How to borrow, reserve and return books, recommend items for purchase and more.
Finding books is simple using Library Search , and the quickest way to get the books you need is to visit our buildings where you can also browse the shelves.
Self-issue kiosks are available to enable you to borrow books easily, or take them to a member of staff at the Library Help desk who will issue them to you.
If a book you need is already on loan, be sure to request it via Library Search and we will arrange to get a copy to you as soon as possible.
If you prefer to minimise your time in the Library, you can use our Click & Collect service to request items that are on the shelf at any Library and arrange to collect them at a time convenient time for you, from the Philip Robinson Library and Walton Library.
The Short Loan collection is a selection of Library materials in heavy demand or defined as essential course reading.
These items can be borrowed for a maximum of 2 days.
Items located in the Research Reserve need to be requested and will be available to collect from the Philip Robinson Library or Walton Library.
If a journal is available in the Research Reserve you can request an article scan using the Desktop Delivery Service .
Find out how you can reserve an item already out on loan, or how we can help you access resources not currently available from the Library.
Before your items are due, we will send you an email telling you when you need to return them.
You can return long loan items to any of the following locations:
Short loan items must be returned to the Library from which they were borrowed.
Some items may be subject to an overdue charge if they are returned late.
Overdue charges may be incurred for the late return of the following:
If you have lost an item, you may be required to pay for a replacement.
Overdue charges can be paid online by logging into My Account on Library Search.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/borrow-reserve-return/cant-find-your-library-resources:
Reserve or request the resources you need for your studies or research.
We aim to provide the resources you need to complete your studies or research.
If you’re unable to access a particular resource, we want to help.
Follow the links below to find the service you need to request or reserve a resource.
Find the item you want on Library Search and request it directly with the reserve button.
Tell us about the books you need for your studies, teaching and research.
Our Inter-Library Loans (ILL) service allows staff and students to obtain for individual use journal articles, books, book chapters and more that are not currently available from the Library.
We welcome recommendations from colleagues for new resources in support of current education and research activity in the University.
We maintain a wishlist for each School of suggestions that would represent a recurring and/or significant cost that is regularly reviewed and prioritised in discussion with Schools and Institutes.
Suggest a subscription to a journal title outside of the Library collection.
Recommend a new online resource such as a database, electronic archive or e-book collection.
Suggest the Library facilitates evaluation of a new online resource by arranging a trial.
Explore new books purchased in the last month in Library Search.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/borrow-reserve-return/inter-library-loans:
Access journal articles, book chapters and more that are not currently available from the Library.
The Inter- Library Loans (ILL) service allows staff and students of Newcastle University to freely obtain material not held by the Library.
External users should approach their local public library.
Before asking for an Inter Library Loan:
Choose the correct form depending on what you require.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/resources-and-study-support:
Specialist resources for your subject and tailored support for your study success.
We are here to support your studies with specialist resources for your subject and tailored services to help you develop and improve your academic skills.
Your subject guide provides access to books, journals, databases and other resources tailored to your discipline.
Our resource guides highlight the different types of information useful across subject areas.
To find your subject guide, select from the dropdown box below, or browse by faculty.
Locate key journal titles and databases, and explore essential and recommended resources on your module reading lists.
Explore the different types of information available from the Library, including patents, maps, market research and newspapers.
Browse new books, titles, collections and more in Library Search.
There is a range of support available to help you develop your academic skills, whether you want to learn independently, get some expert advice or join our network of peer mentors.
The place to go for advice on developing your academic skills and further information on where you can go for support, including Maths Aid.
Access resources to help you develop your information and digital literacy skills independently.
Information on the peer mentoring programme including training for mentors.
Explore advice on referencing, including guides on how to reference and how to format your referencing style.
Discover how to access reference management tool EndNote, create your Library and add references to Microsoft Word.
Find guidance on engaging responsibly with Artificial Intelligence while studying at university.
We are here to help you understand university-level learning and assessment and help you fulfil your potential in your degree course and beyond, with individual support when you need it.
The librarians from the Liaison Team can help you develop your skills in finding, evaluating, managing, and referencing information.
We are experts in helping you develop skills to use the Library and information sources effectively, and can advise on improving your information search plan.
You can contact us via Library Help or book a one-to-one appointment to meet us in person or online.
The Academic Skills Team can help you with a broad range of academic and research skills, academic writing and preparing for assessment.
A one-to-one appointment with the Academic Skills Team allows you to discuss issues related to your studies and learning, from research planning and time management to revision, drafting and editing your writing.
We are experts in helping you develop the academic skills you will need for your programme.
Get in touch with your Liaison Librarian and book a one-to-one for help with finding information for your studies.
Book a one-to-one with the Academic Skills Team for help with the academic skills you need for your programme.
Find out where you can meet the team and ask your academic skills questions across Newcastle Campus this term, without the need to book an appointment.
Your Skills is an open programme that offers a holistic range of workshops on all aspects of academic and study skills.
From assignment planning to feedback, searching for information to referencing, we have sessions running throughout the year, with in-person and synchronous online options , allowing you to develop your skills in a way that suits you.
​
Click on the title of an event to sign up or visit the events calendar to see all the events running this month.
You can also subscribe to the events calendar so you don’t miss out.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/resources-and-study-support/databases-journals-reading-lists:
Locate key journal and databases.
Find essential and recommended resources on your module reading lists.
The Library provides access to a wide range of e-books, e-journals and databases.
These can all be accessed on and away from campus, via Library Search using your University username and password.
Databases for different subjects and information types can be found in Library Search , on your Subject Guide and in Resource Guides .
Library Search allows you to find a database by name (e.g.
JSTOR, Medline or Scopus) or search more broadly by subject.
Your Subject Guide highlights the best databases and specialist resources to use for your subject, while Resource Guides point to key databases for information types, including newspapers, company information, scientific data and more.
Searching for a database and accessing it via Library Search will ensure you are taken to the correct University login page.
This will provide immediate access to the full resource, especially when you are working remotely.
Major database services that the Library provides include:
Find both journal titles and individual journal articles using Library Search .
Use Library Search's Everything search to find journal articles by inputting topic or article keywords.
Apply filters to display articles only and limit to peer reviewed, open access or full-text options.
Use Library Search's Everything except articles search to find journal titles .
After performing your search, use filters to restrict results to show only journals with full-text online.
Explore e-journals in your subject area using BrowZine , or browse A-Z for titles.
Add key journals for your discipline to your own bookshelf and download the BrowZine app to keep up to date with new journal issues.
Explore e-journals in your subject area and to keep up to date with new titles.
Login with your University username and password.
Search across our collection of half a million e-Books, from a wide range of publishers and platforms, using Library Search .
Access specific titles or search by topic keywords to explore subject related resources.
Filter results by full-text online and log in using your University username and password to access titles available electronically.
Your reading lists provide you with easy access to books, e-books, e-journals and anything else your module leader recommends.
These online lists are clearly labelled so you can quickly make decisions about what you want to read.
When you log into Canvas you will see your module reading list in your course menu.
If you're having problems accessing your reading list through Canvas, you can find it via the Reading Lists search page .
Search for a particular reading using keywords in the search icon at the top of the page.
Use the filter icon to filter your reading list by tag (essential, recommended or background) or by type of resource (e.g.
article, book, etc).
Export your reading list into formats such as Word, PDF and EndNote.
Click the menu (three vertical dots) for options.
Advice, training materials and help for creating and managing your reading lists and making resources available to your students.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/resources-and-study-support/subject-guides:
Subject-specific guides to books, journals, databases and more that can help you make the most of your Library.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/resources-and-study-support/subject-guides/faculty-medical:
Subject-specific guides to help you make the most of the Library

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/resources-and-study-support/resource-guides:
Explore the different types of information available from the Library.
Resource guides highlight the different types of information available from the Library.
They include recommended sources alongside advice for finding and using different kinds of information in your research.
Select a guide from the dropdown box or browse the list below.
29 January 2025
28 January 2025
For more news, tips and features, visit our Subject Support blog .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/resources-and-study-support/new-library-resources:
Explore new books, titles, collections and more in Library Search.
The Library holds 800,000+ printed books, 700,000+ e-books and subscribes to over 54,000+ e-journal titles .
We are constantly adding to our vast range of resources to help you with your studies.
Find out more below about our recently acquired resources as well as how to request resources we may not already have.
Explore new book, journal and audiovisual titles added to the Library.
Browse the latest database and e-book collections to the Library.
The Library Subject Support blog is also a useful place to go for news, tips and features, updated by our team of subject Liaison Librarians.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/academic-skills-kit:
Advice on developing your academic skills and information about where you can go for support.
Explore resources and academic skills topics that are popular right now.
Resources curated for postgraduate students on taught and research based programmes.
A collection of resources and practical advice to help you understand academic culture in the UK
Guidance to help you responsibly and openly engage with Artificial Intelligence for your studies.
Study skills support for your first year at university
Themed collections of especially curated resources, providing engaging, interactive resources to help you develop your academic skills.
Explore bookable group sessions designed to give you the skills you need to develop your academic practice.
One-to-one appointments, individual advice, tailored resources, and a programme of events to help you develop the academic skills you need.
Get in touch with your Liaison Librarian or book a one-to-one for help with finding, evaluating, managing, and referencing information
The Maths-Aid team can provide assistance and advice on all aspects of maths and statistics, including statistical analysis and interpreting results.
Come along to our open drop-ins where there is no need to book an appointment in advance, allowing you to meet the library teams in person, access quick guidance and see some of our great resources.
Book one-to-one appointments with the Academic Skills, Library Liaison or Maths-Aid Teams
Find out about the many teams and services that can support your academic studies at Newcastle University.
Explore our online guidance and resources on a range of skills to support your studies.
Learn about writing essays and dissertations, taking exams and delivering presentations.
Develop your academic writing and grammar.
Develop the skills you need to become an effective independent learner.
Build good referencing habits and find out how to develop your academic writing skills to help you avoid plagiarism.
Learning resources to help with maths in your course.
Build the skills you need to find and engage critically, creatively and collaboratively with digital information.
Email: academicskills@ncl.ac.uk Telephone: +44 (0) 191 208 7662
Book an appointment
Works produced for the Academic Skills Kit are licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License except images.
See our Copyright guidance .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/academic-skills-kit/enhance-your-skills:
The Academic Skills Team offers tailored resources, a programme of events and one-to-one appointments for individual advice to help you develop the academic skills you need.
The Academic Skills Team can support you in developing your academic skills to help you understand university-level learning and assessment, and to support you in fulfilling your potential in your degree programme and beyond.​
There are many ways for you to access support and advice on developing the information, academic, and study skills you need for every stage of your studies.
Curated collections of resources tailored to the structure of the academic year, regular Your Skills workshops as well as access to individual support at our Drop-in sessions across campus and bookable one-to-one tutorials with an Academic Skills tutor.
We also deliver embedded teaching and can provide additional Canvas resources.
For more information and an overview the topics we can cover please see our embedded teaching provision .
Our online resources on the Academic Skills Kit cover a range of topics and enable you practice your academic skills and apply them to your own context at your own pace.
Explore our curated collections of resources tailored to the structure of the academic year or check out our most common support topic resources in the carousel below.
Explore the Academic Skills Kit for advice and guidance on how to develop your academic skills
Explore our themed collections of especially curated resources, providing engaging, interactive resources to help you develop your academic skills.
Use our editing strategies to target structure, criticality and style to help you to enhance your work during the writing process.
Find out about critical thinking and how to develop a critical mindset and apply it in your studies.
Check out our Strategic Reading Framework PDF to help you develop a strategic approach to your reading process
Take our procrastination quiz to find out what's causing you to procrastinate and discover strategies tailored to you
Great comfort in knowing there are helpful resources out there.
Previously was feeling very overwhelmed.
The session helped me to further evaluate my skill set and see what I need to work on in the coming year.
I really enjoyed the session and the presenters were really nice, friendly and professional.
Terrific session, really helpful - thanks.
I am not the only one that feels overwhelmed and lost.
This session made it easier on where to look and ask questions
We encourage you to explore our ASK resources and Your Skills workshops covering a wide range of common concerns students may encounter.
If you still have queries or require further support you can speak to the team at our open drop-ins or by booking an appointment.
If you have a quick query, you are welcome to attend our drop-ins across campus, allowing you to meet the team in person, access quick guidance, and resources.
There is no need to book to attend our drop-ins and you can attend as many as you like.
We also run regular Tea at 3 events in the Academic Skills Hub in the Philip Robinson Library.
We have a limited number of bookable slots where you can discuss more complex queries with one of the team, either in person or online.
Our appointments are designed for you to develop your skills so that you can apply these in your own context and our tutors will work with you to identify appropriate strategies.
An Academic Skills one-to-one lasts for up to 50 minutes, and gives you the opportunity to discuss issues and queries related to your studies and learning, from research planning and time management to revision, drafting and editing your writing.
Book an appointment with the Academic Skills Team
Watch our YouTube video to find out what to expect from a one-to-one appointment with the Academic Skills Team

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/resources-and-study-support/self-enrol-courses:
Resources to help you develop your information and digital literacy skills independently.
To help support your independent learning at university, the Library has developed a range of free, self-enrol courses on the Canvas VLE.
Enrolling on these courses offers you the opportunity to build your study skills at a time and pace that suits you.
Each of these courses is self-contained and you can either work your way from the start to finish, or you can pick-and-mix which sections you wish to focus on.
Develop essential skills for finding, managing, and evaluating information.
Learn how to reference accurately, explore useful tools and develop good academic practices.
Follow step-by-step instructions to set up your EndNote Library and discover best practice for using this tool effectively.
Explore how you can use social media effectively in your research through networking, and collecting, sharing, and curating information.
The courses below are aimed at students undertaking dissertation or thesis work, including postgraduate taught and postgraduate research students.
While open to all, they were designed with Arts and Humanities subjects in mind, meaning some examples may not be as relevant to those studying SAgE or FMS subjects.
Postgraduate researchers can also explore workshops available via the Faculty Research Development Programmes.
Focus on how to find the best quality information for your academic work and how to manage your information effectively.
A guide to finding specific information types for your research.
Designed for HaSS PGRs, this course will help you to explore the behaviours, skills and techniques that will enable you to embrace and benefit from open research practices.
If you're not sure where to start when it comes to building your information skills, or you want to keep track of your progress, our skills audit quizzes can help.
The audit presents reflective questions that help you identify areas for development.
They then point you to key sources of help so you can work on improving your skills and understanding.
Reflect on your current information skills and find advice on developing them further.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/resources-and-study-support/peer-mentoring:
Information on the Peer Mentoring scheme, including upcoming training for mentors.
Newcastle University is committed to offering Peer Mentoring to all undergraduate students entering their degree course, across all campuses.
Peer mentoring is a 'buddy scheme' for new undergraduate students.
Through direct access to the advice and support of a more experienced peer during the first semester, new students are supported academically, socially and culturally.
Peer Mentoring begins by mentors contacting their mentees before the start of their programme, with an initial meeting taking place during induction period.
Mentors will then arrange further meetings throughout the first semester.
Peer Mentors are student volunteers who are usually in stage two or three of the same degree course.
Peer mentors receive training before starting their role and are supported throughout the scheme by a nominated staff coordinator for each School.
Our individual mentee and peer mentor pages provide further information and highlight the great benefits of taking part in the scheme:
Information for new and prospective students to Newcastle University.
Information for current students considering becoming a Peer Mentor.
Meet some of our Peer Mentors and learn more about their experience of the Peer Mentoring scheme.
Information for staff on the Peer Mentoring programme.
How we work together with staff and students to deliver a great peer mentoring experience.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/resources-and-study-support/peer-mentoring/mentees:
Information on the Peer Mentoring Programme, including upcoming training for mentors.
My Peer Mentor has been such an inspiration to me throughout my first term at university.
Initially I was quite worried to be starting my course but having my Peer Mentor has helped me work things out.
My Peer Mentor was always going above and beyond to ensure the group knew her help was available, was very friendly and approachable, enthusiastic, helped me to feel settled in.
My Peer Mentor has really helped me to settle in, especially regarding our work.
It has given me the confidence that I lacked in my studies so I really appreciate the time she has spent to help us.
She is a legend!
My Peer Mentor has gone out of her way to make us feel welcome.
She told us about opportunities within the school and gave us a thorough tour of the facilities so I instantly felt that the physics building was my home.
She has been truly amazing!
My Peer Mentor was really welcoming and helpful in the first week of university, and she put everyone’s nerves at ease.
She was always happy to help and made our mentee meetings fun and enjoyable.
My Peer Mentor has been such a great help, and a friendly face, making my journey and settling in much more relaxed.
Whenever I need help or support with any questions regarding the course or in personal life, my Peer Mentor is always there to help me.
She has gone out of her way to help and always asks how I am doing.
My Peer Mentor has a very vast understanding of how the school works and his advice was very useful.
He explained everything from the educational to the social, and was always giving me tips and tricks.
My Peer Mentor has been so helpful and so approachable, I felt like I could ask her any questions about the course and she would not judge.
She has been so helpful and such a reassuring presence during this first term, I am very grateful to her.
My Peer Mentor has provided invaluable advice on both academic matters such as first assignments, as well as personal adjustment to university life.
Overall, she has made the adjustment to university life easier, which has been hugely appreciated.
My Peer Mentor has been extremely welcoming and helpful since we started University, consistently offering help and drop-in sessions for anything we may want or need.
He's done a lot to make sure we're comfortable.
My Peer Mentor has always been there for us and has given us support all throughout the first semester with regular meetings.
She has answered our questions and been really good at being there to make us feel welcomed and a bit more at home here.
My Peer Mentor is extremely helpful.
She is very down to earth, so it feels easier and less stressful asking her questions rather than the lecturers as she has gone through this experience recently and 
is therefore more understanding.
My Peer Mentor is always ready to answer any questions I have.
She's been really helpful and always assure me when I'm too anxious about assignments or exams.
So glad to have her as my Peer Mentor!
My Peer Mentor went above and beyond in welcoming us to the university and making us feel comfortable, answering all of our questions and offering us great advice.
My Peer Mentor is one of the most friendly and approachable people I have met and it was really nice to be received with such a warm welcome when arriving in a new city where I knew very few people.
My Peer Mentor has offered us lots of helpful tips and resources  and consistent updates which has been incredibly helpful and helped us to become immersed in the culture of the university.
My Peer Mentor is always happy to answer any questions we have which has been very helpful and reassuring when studying a new degree, which can often become very overwhelming.
My Peer Mentor has  provided resources which have been very beneficial and is always happy to meet up when it is needed.
Even when I don’t have questions, he still sends regular emails to check I’m doing okay which I really appreciate.
My Peer Mentor is so bubbly and inclusive and really good at relating with us.
She’s really proactive and I feel like I could go to her if I needed any advice or just someone to talk to.
My Peer Mentor is a wonderful person who was very helpful and gave me good guidance.
It really helped me settle in.
My Peer Mentor has been wonderful for making me and others feel welcome to Newcastle.
She has been there when I have voiced stress over the course and made me feel better.
My Peer Mentor always makes an effort to meet us if we ever need help with anything, with both our course and work, and also if we just want a chat about things in general.
He's very approachable and friendly and an all-round nice person.
My Peer Mentor was great at putting herself in our shoes and looking back on when she was in first year and giving us advice from what she has learnt along the way.
It’s been great to have a mentor to message and ask for advice.
My Peer Mentor has been very supportive and calmed me down when I felt overwhelmed.
I'm so grateful to have her as my Peer Mentor, she has made my university experience much better.
I can't thank her enough!
My Peer Mentor did a fantastic job welcoming me to the university and making me feel at home.
They've been very approachable throughout this first term.
My Peer Mentor is extremely proactive and eager to help.
Provides concrete advise that actually helps!
Our mentor made sure we are settling in and exploring all that the university offers.
We have been lucky enough to explore areas across Newcastle with her, whilst also gaining a lot of advice to help us get through our time at university.
My Peer Mentor has been really communicative and helpful this entire term.
He started term by making sure he scheduled a meeting for all of us and then he made sure to send us lots of tips to help us be successful in our course.
He has been extremely helpful and explained everything from where to find essay support to how he revises for exams.
He is kind and approachable and listens to concerns and responds with advice and reassurance that he’s had these concerns too.
My mentor was really lovely and welcoming and happy to answer any questions we had.
She made sure that we knew to enjoy ourselves but to get the work life balance right and is a very easy going and lovely person!
My Peer Mentor must be the friendliest and most helpful person I’ve ever had the pleasure of meeting.
She has consistently given me outstanding support and never fails to check in on us to make sure that we’re doing okay.
My Peer Mentor was kind, thoughtful.
respectful and always tried to help if it was within his possibilities.
I really appreciated this, especially knowing nobody here at first, to help put pressure off academic and organisational matters.
My Peer Mentor has been very helpful throughout the first semester and made me feel much less nervous about starting university.
She covered a wide range of topics with our group and meetings with her have been really useful.
My mentor has been amazing!
She has been checking up on me and answering any questions I had, and I still chat to her if I see her on campus.
She has been such a great help, and a friendly face, making my journey and settling in much more relaxed.
My Peer Mentor was really lovely and made me feel a lot less worried about my course and the workload and always offered help.
She has been very kind and has offered continuous support and help throughout.
My Peer Mentor always made it clear she was happy to listen if we ever needed to talk or were struggling with something.
She was just such a great mentor who really eased some worries I had when first starting the programme.
Peer mentoring is a 'buddy scheme' for new undergradute students.
The aim of Peer Mentoring is to enable all students to make a smooth transition to their programme of study and integrate successfully into University life.
Being mentored by an experienced student is a valuable opportunity for development.
You will gain some rare insights from the experiences of other students and your confidence levels will be higher, knowing you have someone to turn to for guidance.
Prior to commencing your degree programme your Peer Mentor will introduce themselves to you via email and provide reassurance that there will be a friendly face awaiting you when you arrive.
This is also a great opportunity for you to ask any questions you may have before you arrive at university.
Your school will arrange an event enabling you to meet your Peer Mentor and the other mentees in your group for the first time.
Your Peer Mentor will arrange up to four meetings throughout the first semester.
What these meetings will involve is the responsibility of each Peer Mentor, but mentees are encouraged to use their own initiative and provide feedback to their Peer Mentor with regards to what they would like to do, discuss in more depth or where they need advice.
Your Peer Mentor can:
Engage with your Peer Mentor - ongoing engagement with your Peer Mentor is crucial for the success of the scheme for all parties.
You will be expected to contribute equally and to develop a mentoring relationship based on trust, confidentiality and mutual respect.
This includes showing up to meetings prepared and on time.
Remember that Peer Mentors are volunteering their own time to help you.
Ask questions - This scheme is primarily focused on you, so take advantage of that!
Come prepared with questions that only your mentor would be able to answer about their experiences as a student.
Take advantage of their knowledge and experiences.
Engage with your fellow mentees - You will be assigned to a Mentee group.
This is a great way to get to know other students in your year (who will be going through the same things as you), to engage in fun social activities and to make new friends.
Take action - Your Peer Mentor is not there to do the work for you; they are there to help you to settle into student life and to provide guidance on how to navigate the University experience.
Put the advice they have given you to use.
If they have directed you to a resource or given you something to work on, make sure that you do it in time for your next session so that you can discuss it and provide feedback on the help they have given you.
This will help both you and your Peer Mentor to receive the correct support and accomplish your goals.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/resources-and-study-support/peer-mentoring/mentors:
The idea of being responsible for a group of students may be nerve-wracking at first, but becoming a Peer Mentor is such a rewarding experience and is also hugely beneficial for your own personal development.
Being a Peer Mentor is a rewarding and amazing learning experience which will open many doors for you in the future.
I had a great experience, and I would do it all again in a heartbeat.
If you’re thinking about taking on the role, do it.
I think everyone should try it out!
It’s a real honour that just by being involved in my mentees' lives, I was able to make their first semester easier and enhance their student experience.
As a Peer Mentor, you can develop more skills and learn things about yourself that are crucial.
Being a Peer Mentor has allowed me to demonstrate my independence and initiative through volunteering.
I really enjoyed the connection I had with my mentees.
The problems and concerns they were experiencing were extremely like my own when I was in my first year and I thoroughly enjoyed reassuring them from my own first-hand experience
Being a Peer Mentor was such an enjoyable experience and a great platform to enhance my transferable skills.
Being a Peer Mentor was a really good opportunity to be there for other students, to share my student experience, to give advice and help new students feel more comfortable being at university.
Volunteering as a Peer Mentor is worth it.
It isn’t too time consuming and it's extremely rewarding to know that your efforts are significantly helping someone who is likely nervous starting a new stage in their life.
Balancing Peer Mentor responsibilities has really improved my ability to organise my time effectively.
I feel this year I have really branched out my comfort zone and enriched my university experience as much as possible.
Being a Peer Mentor is one of the most rewarding activities that you will take up during your time at university!
You have a significantly positive impact on your fellow students and help them start their journey at university.
Becoming a Peer Mentor is really rewarding.
I think if you are interested in making people feel welcome and supported, this is a great way to give back and feel that you are actually making a real difference.
It's a very rewarding experience where both Peer Mentors and mentees gain a lot.
Being a Peer Mentor has helped me develop leadership, teamworking and organisation skills.
These not only allow me to interact better with my mentees but are skills which will help me in the future within my career and everyday life.
You don’t have to be an amazing student to become a Peer Mentor.
You just need a willingness and desire to share your university experience and what you have learned with others.
It is an amazing experience to give back to people who are in the same boat that you were in not so long ago.
If you are thinking about becoming a Peer Mentor, go for it!
It’s a very rewarding and satisfying experience to help someone.
It's great to see that you've made an impact on someone's life and they are now more comfortable at university.
As a Peer Mentor, I can reap the benefits of getting to know more people on the same course as me and have an opportunity to practice my communication skills, a skill which is essential for my professional development and future career.
Peer Mentors help to enhance and promote the overall University experience of their fellow students, enabling new students to develop a sense of belonging.
From September, you will support a small group of Stage 1 students to settle into their course and life at Newcastle University.
You will provide support through the sharing of information about relevant University services and resources, or by simply sharing your experiences as a student.
Besides looking for students with a commitment to helping others, we are also looking for students with:
Training - Training takes place during April-June.
You will be required to complete an online training course.
Completing the training is compulsory.
If you do not attend, you cannot be a Peer Mentor.
Online Refresher Training (one hour) - This training is completed in August/September as a reminder of what you learned earlier in the year.
Pre-Arrival Welcome Letter - You will be required to write a welcome letter introducing yourself to your mentees prior to their arrival in September.
Induction Period Meeting – Your School will schedule an event during the induction period, giving you the opportunity to meet your mentees for the first time.
Organise and lead four further meetings during Semester one with your mentees - Where and what these meetings involve is the responsibility of each mentor – you can make them as formal or informal as you wish.
Suggestions of what to do and what to discuss will be available, but mentors are encouraged to use their own initiative and seek feedback from their own mentees with regards to what they would like to do/need advice with.
You will get the opportunity to support a group of first year students and share your knowledge.
Doing something for the wider student community will help you to create connections with the people around you and can be incredibly rewarding.
You will receive an invitation to the Peer Mentor Thank You Event and the opportunity to become Peer Mentor of the Year.
This is an awards ceremony with lots of food and drink and the opportunity to win a certificate and a prize!
You will gain recognition on your Higher Education Academic Record on completion of a short reflective log.
When students graduate, they are given a copy of their HEAR record.
This record enables institutions to provide a detailed picture of student achievement throughout a students’ time at university, including academic work, extracurricular activities (such as Peer Mentoring), prizes and employability awards, voluntary work and offices held in student union clubs and societies that have been verified by the institution.
This record is something that employers may ask to see, so having as many achievements on there as possible is a bonus.
Your experience will contribute towards the NCL+ Award .
This is an award run by the Students’ Union, whereby students who complete more than 50 hours of extracurricular activities* can become eligible for this award.
Part of the award involves reflecting on the transferable skills you have learned in completing these activities and this will also go on your HEAR record.
(* this can include any extracurricular activity that does not count towards part of your degree and includes (but is not limited to); part-time employment, volunteering, being a member of a society, being a student rep, being part of a sports team, hobbies/learning something in your spare time, etc.)
You will enhance your personal development and employability skills, such as communication, leadership and organisation.
The Graduate Framework includes all the skills that employers are looking for in a graduate.
Wherever you go after university, employers are looking for applicants who can demonstrate these skills.
Many of the skills listed in the Graduate Framework are skills that you will develop as a Peer Mentor.
During Peer Mentor training you will be shown how to record and extract what you have learned as a Peer Mentor and how to articulate what skills you have developed for other purposes.
If you are interested in becoming a Peer Mentor, please contact your Staff Coordinator in the first instance for further details.
Recruitment for new Peer Mentors commences at the end of Semester 1.
You will need to complete an application form.
Once your application has been approved, you will be sent links to register for training.
This training is compulsory and must be completed in order to become a Peer Mentor.
You can apply to be a Peer Mentor by completing the application form .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/resources-and-study-support/peer-mentoring/mentors/mentor-profiles:
Meet some of our Peer Mentors and learn more about the Peer Mentoring scheme.
Find out why they decided to become a Peer Mentor, what the role actually involves and what transferable skills they developed.
BA (Hons) English Literature
BA (Hons) Marketing and Management
BA (Hons) Combined Honours
Master of Dietetics
Medicine and Surgery MB BS
BSc (Hons) Oral and Dental Health Sciences
BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering
BSc (Hons) Computer Science (Software Engineering)
BSc (Hons) Marine Biology

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/resources-and-study-support/peer-mentoring/mentors/mentor-profiles/fms:
Explore profiles of Peer Mentors from programmes in the Faculty
BSc (Hons) Human Nutrition
BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science
BSc (Hons) Biomedical Sciences
BSc (Hons) Biomedical Genetics
BSc (Hons) Psychology with Professional Placement
BSc (Joint Hons) Psychology & Sport and Exercise Science with Professional Placement
BSc (Hons) Psychology
Master of Pharmacy with Honours
Dental Surgery BDS

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/resources-and-study-support/peer-mentoring/mentors/mentor-profiles/sage:
BSc (Hons) Computer Science
BEng (Hons) Chemical Engineering
MChem Chemistry with Medicinal Chemistry
MChem Chemistry with Medicinal Chemistry (Study Abroad)
BSc (Hons) Biology
BSc (Hons) Mathematics
BSc (Hons) Physics
MMaths (Hons) Mathematics & Statistics

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/resources-and-study-support/peer-mentoring/mentors/mentor-profiles/hass:
BA (Hons) Fine Art
BA (Hons) Film Practices
BA (Hons) Media, Communication and Cultural Studies
BA (Hons) English Literature with Creative Writing
BA (Hons) Politics
BA (Hons) Politics and International Relations
LLB (Hons) Law
BA (Hons) Architecture
BA (Hons) Architecture and Urban Planning
BSc (Hons) International Business Management with Placement
BSc (Hons) Marketing and Management
BA (Hons) Modern Languages and Linguistics
BA (Hons) Modern Languages

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/resources-and-study-support/peer-mentoring/staff:
Information for staff on the Peer Mentoring Programme.
During Semester 1 they support a small group of Stage 1 students to settle into their course and life at Newcastle University by providing support through the sharing of information about relevant University services and resources, or by simply sharing their experiences as a student.
Peer Mentoring Staff Coordinators are responsible for Peer Mentors in each School.
They are responsible for the recruitment of new Peer Mentors as well as organising any activities that ensure that the scheme runs as smoothly as possible for both the School and its students.
Staff Coordinators begin to recruit new Peer Mentors for the next academic year at the end of Semester 1.
Peer Mentors will first meet their mentees during the Induction period, so it is expected that Schools will organise an event for both their Peer Mentors and their mentees to meet during this period.
During Semester 1, Staff Coordinators are responsible for making sure that their Peer Mentors are engaging with their mentees and for providing any additional support their Peer Mentors may need.
It is expected that Peer Mentors will meet with their mentees up to four times during Semester 1.
Staff Coordinators will meet or check in with their Peer Mentors throughout the semester to see how things are progressing, answer any queries and escalate any issues which may have arisen.
To find out who the Staff Coordinator is in your School, please view our Staff Coordinator list.
Newcastle University staff members involved in the delivery of the Peer Mentoring Scheme can be added to our dedicated Canvas Community - please contact peer.mentoring@ncl.ac.uk for details.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/resources-and-study-support/peer-mentoring/working-in-partnership:
How we work in partnership to deliver Peer Mentoring.
The Peer Mentoring team is committed to supporting the University’s Education for Life Strategy, and its commitment to offering education which is a joint endeavour.
We do this by empowering staff and students to work in partnership to co-create a peer mentoring experience which fully supports new undergraduates’ transition to university.
The aim of Peer Mentoring is to enable all undergraduate students to make a smooth transition to their programme of study, successfully integrating into university life.
Making the decision to attend university is a momentous step in a person’s life, and for some new undergraduate students the transition into university life can initially be an academically, socially and emotionally challenging experience.
By working collaboratively with our current students we can help to enhance this transition period and the overall experience of new students.
Current students also benefit from their role as a Peer Mentor .
Supported by the Careers Service through a process of reflection, they overwhelmingly report significantly improved confidence, resilience, attributes and skills needed to transform their own lives and to excel in their chosen futures.
The Peer Mentoring scheme is for new undergraduate students across all Newcastle University campuses.
New taught postgraduate students and postgraduate researchers are supported with alternative induction and transition activities.
Advocacy and student representation, including Peer Mentoring, are considered voluntary roles and are therefore not included in the monitoring of hours required by UKVI.
We welcome feedback on the Peer Mentoring scheme at any time.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/resources-and-study-support/leisure-reading:
A collection of books, e-books, audiobooks and magazines that are available for when you need to take a little time out.
We have a wide range of genre’s available to browse and borrow, either online via Libby, or from our physical collections.
Libby is an app you can download onto your phone or view in your browser .
As a leisure reading tool, Libby allows you to discover magazines, audiobooks and e-books.
Best of all, it is freely available to Newcastle University staff and students!
You can stream titles with Wi-Fi or mobile data, or download them for offline use and read anytime, anywhere.
Get the Libby app or login online and start exploring our collections today
A collection of books and magazines with tips for student living.
Explore our collection of books and audiobooks by contemporary authors
Settle in with this selection of classic detective novels, modern day mysteries and more.
A collection of audiobooks, books and magazines curated on the topic of LGBTQ+ history and experience.
A collection of books and magazines covering climate change and sustainable living
A collection of books to help you understand and manage your mental health and wellbeing.
A fiction collection focusing on representations of illness, disease, healing and health, interwoven with themes that give voice to a diversity of perspectives and experiences.
A collection of novels, short stories, graphic novels, poetry, films, plays relating to the theme of Law.
Loving Libby or think there's something missing that you'd like to read?
We're really keen to hear your thoughts on how we can further develop our leisure reading collection.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/resources-and-study-support/be-wellncl:
A collection of resources to help you understand and manage your mental health and wellbeing.
Be well@NCL is a collection of tried and tested books, e-books, audio titles and podcasts chosen in partnership with the University's Student Health and Wellbeing Service.
These resources are available to be borrowed by University students and staff to help them understand and manage their mental health and wellbeing.
View the recommended list of books, e-books, audio titles and podcasts.
There is evidence from the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) that self-help books, like those in the Be well@NCL collection, can help people to understand and manage their mental health including depression, stress, low-self-esteem, anxiety and more.
Reading or listening to a book written by someone who understands the difficulties you're facing can help you start to feel better.
​ ​ In these videos the Student Health and Wellbeing Services team and other university staff explain why they have found particular books from the collection helpful: ​
The Be well@NCL collection is available in a range of formats so you can access resources in a variety of ways, choosing which best suits your needs.
Print titles can be found in the Philip Robinson Library , the Walton Library and the Law Library .​
​Check if a book is available before going to the Library by clicking on the print title in the reading list or by looking it up on Library Search .
Alternatively you can use our click and collect service.
Books can be borrowed discreetly using our self-issue machines.
Students can borrow items for up to 20 weeks unless someone else reserves it.
We will send you an email telling you when you need to return them.
If you are struggling to return any items, do get in touch and let us know.
You can also borrow many of the Be well@NCL titles (including print, e-book and audio formats) from Newcastle public libraries.
Join Newcastle Libraries online and type the title or author name into their Library Catalogue .
The easiest way to access e-book or audio book formats is by locating the title in our Be well@NCL reading list .
The format of the resource is noted under the title of the item in the list.
Click the ‘view online’ link to access the item you have chosen.
​You can also use the filter at the top of the list to find all e-book or audio book titles available.
Alternatively, search for the title via Library Search.
The format of the resource is noted above the title in the results list.
If there is an e-book or audio book available, follow the ‘online access’ link for the item you have chosen.
If we don’t have a Be well@NCL title in your preferred format, you can check if it is available at Newcastle public libraries.
Join Newcastle Libraries online and download their Borrowbox app for e-book and audio options.
The Be well@NCL collection includes a selection of podcasts recommended by the Student Health and Wellbeing Services team.
To access these podcasts, go to our Be Well@NCL reading list and click on the ‘podcasts linked to Be well@NCL titles and author’s’ section or browse any relevant topic headings to see podcasts recommended for particular health issues.
If you find the book you are reading or listening to is not helping, please consider contacting the Student Health and Wellbeing team who offer support , information and guidance on a wide range of topics for students.
If you are a member of staff please contact your GP, health professional or the Employee Assistance Programme.
Explore support available from the University's Student Wellbeing team.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/resources-and-study-support/study-well:
Advice and support to help you study well.
We know it can be stressful in the Library at certain times of the year, especially when exams are looming and assignment deadlines are creeping closer.
To help support you the Library, in partnership with Newcastle University Students Union (NUSU), Student Wellbeing and the Chaplaincy Team, run Study Well@NCL, a campaign advocating a responsible approach to studying and encouraging positive behaviours in study spaces.
Below you'll find useful advice, key resources and relaxing events to help you study well.
During the exam period Library study spaces are at a premium so it's important to think in advance about the kind of study space you need.
There are a variety of open study spaces and bookable rooms located across our four library buildings, including designated silent, quiet and collaborative areas so you can choose a space to suit your needs.
You can also check study space availability across campus .
If you're struggling to find a place to work in the Library, talk to a member of staff, and we will be happy to try and help you find a space.
To help support others please be mindful of the space you’re using.
If it’s a silent study space and you need to talk, use an alternative location.
If you’re being disturbed by noise in a silent study space you can text our Noise Alert Service 07891 484 764 and we will send someone to investigate.
Help keep our building environment clean for others to use by removing your rubbish, and observe the eating and drinking policy on our floors so that other people aren’t distracted.
We have a wealth of resources available to help support your studies.
Our specialist staff from the Library Liaison Team and Academic Skills Team are here to support you through a variety of one-to-one sessions, Your Skills events, and online content available via the Academic Skills Kit.
Book an online or in-person one-to-one appointment with the Library Liaison Team or Academic Skills Team for help with your studies.
Discover our calendar of Your Skills events, find out more about what's on offer and access programme resources.
Explore our collection of online resources to help enhance and improve your skills.
Search our knowledgebase to find answers to all your Library questions, contact us with your enquiries, and get in touch with Library departments or people.
For those moments when you need some time out, explore our collections, stream some music from our Spotify playlists, or download our Study/wellbeing pack .
Our Study/Wellbeing pack includes exam revision tips, reminders on using the library during this busy time, and
wellbeing advice and activities for those times when you need a well-deserved break.
Offering a range of help and support, including advice on academic queries and general wellbeing.
A free-to-download app where you can talk with other students from around the world if you’re struggling and worried about your mental health.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers:
Services for staff to support teaching, learning and research across the University
We are here to support your research and teaching with a dedicated research service and an offer of partnership in designing curriculum activities that help develop your students' academic, information and study skills.
Providing advice and guidance on all aspects of research to support our research community.
Find out about training opportunities for current researchers.
Our education support focuses on working in partnership with you to develop embedded skills teaching within modules.
This includes in person and online delivery, and creating online learning materials for you to drawn on in your own teaching.
Explore the content below to find out how we can help students to develop their study skills, and information, academic and digital literacies.
Supporting students in the development of academic literacies and study skills.
Embedding information literacies in your curriculum.
Embedding the use of archives and rare books in your teaching, research and engagement activities.
Find out how we support your students as they progress through their studies and explore how to make a referral.
Discover resources within the Library collections that include teaching notes, downloadable resources, video content and more.
Request the resources you need for your teaching or research.
The Liaison Librarian for this subject is Robyn McEwen-Orr .
The Academic Skills Team

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs:
Open research practices to make research more accessible, transparent and reproducible.
Plan, store and share your research data.
Make research freely available to maximise its visibility and comply with requirements.
Identify your rights as an author and raise your awareness of copyright issues when publishing.
Manage your research profile using research systems and social media.
Find out about publishing and requesting an ISBN.
Find out about the types of metrics available to support research assessment activities and guidance on their responsible use.
Find out about theses at Newcastle University.
Based in the Philip Robinson Library, our team provides services and training to support researchers adopt open research practices, including sharing of research data, code, software, protocols, methods, and publications.
We also give advice on publication strategy, licencing and copyright and the responsible use of research metrics.
We also lead the Open Research Project , focussed on working with the research community to co-deliver an institutional programme of training in open research practices and establishing a network of open research champions to support open research within units and disciplines
If you like to hear more about how we can support you, your school or research group or, if you are interested in joining the Open Research Project , please get in touch at lrs@ncl.ac.uk .
We are happy to come along to meetings and events to explain what we do and how we can help.
Implementing open and transparent practices throughout the research workflow enchances rigour, reproducibility and transparency, fostering greater trust in research.
Find out how to contact the teams who can support you in your research.
Research Data Service Team
If you have questions about research data management or how to make your research data publicly available please get in touch:
Telephone: +44 (0) 191 2087663
Email: rdm@ncl.ac.uk
Open Access Team
For all Open Access related enquiries please contact the team at:
Phone: +44 (0) 191 2082920
Email: openaccess@ncl.ac.uk
Open Research Team
For Open Research enquiries please contact the team at:
Email: openresearch@ncl.ac.uk
Unsure who to contact?
Email: lrs@ncl.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/open-research:
Making research more accessible, transparent and reproducible
Tell us how you've helped make research more open to win a University award!
Open research applies the principles of openness across the research cycle, from inception to design, data collection, analysis and dissemination.
Open research practices include sharing research methods, data, code and software, pre-prints, publications and other research outputs under an open licence, as well as the pre-registration of study plans, science communication and citizen science.
Adopting these practices can increase the rigour, transparency and reproducibility of our research, promote collaboration and inclusivity and enhance public trust in the research we do.
The University therefore encourages researchers to incorporate open research practices into their workflows to make their processes and outputs 'as open as possible, as closed as necessary' (see our Institutional Position Statement on open research ).
A community of champions helping to promote and support a more open research culture.
Our researchers discuss the benefits and challenges of using open practices in their research.
Awards to recognise colleagues and students who use open practices to make their research more transparent, reproducible or accessible.
Join us for an informal discussion of how to improve reproducibility and openness in research.
With Tea - and other refreshments!
Join our UKRN local network for updates on open research events and activities at the University and beyond.
Make your publications open access to maximise the visibility and impact of your research.
Find out how we are contributing to a UKRN project to accelerate the update of open research practices.
A mini-comic on open research practices
Latest posts from the Opening Research blog
These UKRN train-the-trainer courses will give participants the knowledge and skills they need to deliver training in open research practices, with support from us.
Newcastle University expects researchers to incorporate open research practices into their workflows to make their outputs ‘as open as possible, as closed as necessary'
Email: openresearch@ncl.ac.uk Telephone: +44 (0) 191 208 2920

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/open-research/case-studies:
Discover how colleagues are making research more transparent, accessible and reproducible.
The case studies below are from the winners of the Open Research Awards in 2024.
Chris Harrison.
Reader in Astrophysics, School of Mathematics, Statistics and Physics.
Winner, Open Research Awards 2024
Cong Zhang, Lecturer in Phonetics and Phonology at the School of Education.
Second Prize, Open Research Awards 2024
Josh Horton, Research Associate.
School of Natural and Environmental Sciences.
Third Prize (joint), Open Research Awards 2024
Chris Moreh.
Lecturer in Sociology, School of Geography, Politics and Sociology.
Third prize (joint), Open Research Awards 2024.
Ben Hawthorne, PhD Student, School of Natural and Environmental Sciences.
Commendation, Open Research Awards 2024
Philip James, Professor of Urban Data, School of Engineering.
Glyn Nelson, Alex Laude.
The Bioimaging Unit, Bioscience Institute.
Commendation, Open Research Awards 2024.
The case studies below are from the winners of the Open Research Awards in 2023.
Jordan Cuff, NUAcT Fellow, School of Natural and Environmental Sciences.
Winner, Open Research Awards 2023
Melissa Bateson, Professor of Ethology, Biosciences Institute.
Second Prize, Open Research Awards 2023
Mike Diessner, PhD Candidate in Computing.
Third Prize (joint), Open Research Awards 2023
Chris Hackney, NUAcT Fellow, School of Geography, Politics and Sociology.
Louise Rayne, NUAcT Fellow, School of History, Classics and Archaeology.
Commendation, Open Research Awards 2023
Gareth Richards, Lecturer in Psychology.
The case studies below are from the winners of the inaugural Open Research Awards in 2022.
Sam Orange, Lecturer in Exercise Science, School of Biomedical, Nutritional, & Sport Sciences Winner, Open Research Awards 2022
Renae J.
Stefanetti, Translational and Clinical Research Institute.
Second Prize, Open Research Awards 2022
Elizabeth Lewis, Lecturer in Computational Hydrology, School of Engineering.
Third Prize, Open Research Awards 2022
Using public pre-registration when replicating published research.
Courtney Neal, PhD Researcher, Population Health Sciences Institute.
Commendation, Open Research Awards 2022
Lenka Pelechova, Research Associate, School of Computing.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/open-research/awards:
Recognising colleagues and students who have helped to make research more open.
The Newcastle University Open Research Awards recognise colleagues and students who have used open practices to make research more accessible, transparent or reproducible, and demonstrate an understanding of the aims of open research.
The awards are open to all students and colleagues working in any research-related role, at any stage, within any area of the University.
We encourage applications from researchers from any discipline, including those where open research is not yet the norm, and who may use qualitative, quantitative or creative practice methodologies.
The winners will be announced at a celebration event and presented with an exclusive, custom-made award created by the University's glass blowing workshop , as well as certificates and letters of commendation to recognise their contribution to building a more open research culture.
These awards were made possible thanks to Newcastle University’s Enhancing Research Culture Project Fund in support of our Research Culture Action Plan .
Applications for an open research award must be submitted as a brief case study (no more than 750 words) describing how open practices were used in a research context, focussing on the benefits and the challenges faced.
Submissions should be written for a general audience, and avoiding overly technical language.
Case studies should be structured as follows:
Examples of open practices that we would expect case studies to describe include:
Applicants may also wish to refer to the winning case studies from previous awards.
Entries must be submitted by 17:00 on Friday November 7 th 2025.
Submitted case studies will be reviewed by a panel of researchers and professional services staff with representation from across the faculties and career stages.
Entries shortlisted for an award will be invited to present their case studies at an in-person celebration event on November 24 th 2025 , where the award winners will be announced.
Prizes will be awarded as bespoke trophies to the winner of the Open Research Award and runners up.
Additional prizes may be awarded at the discretion of the panel.
Apply for an award
We are also accepting nominations for open research prizes for colleagues who you feel deserve recognition for helping to make research more open and transparent, but who would not wish to submit a full case study for an award.
For example, technical or administrative colleagues who have provided excellent support with open research practices or researchers making their first steps to adopt an open research practice that is uncommon in their discipline.
To nominate someone click the link below and tell us in ~200 words why you feel they should receive an open research prize.
Nominations will be reviewed by the panel and those selected for a prize will recieve a certificate and personalised letter of commendation from the Dean of Research Culture and Strategy.
Nominations must be submitted by 17:00 on Friday November 7 th 2025.
Nominate someone
Join us at the Open Research Awards 2025 celebration event to hear presentations from those shortlisted for an award, to find out who the award winners are and enjoy celebratory drinks after the event!
If you plan to attend the event we’d be grateful if you could complete the booking form to allow us to cater for the appropriate number of people and for any special requirements:
Book to attend
Find out more about the innovative and inspiring ways our researchers are using open practices

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/open-research/reproducibilitea:
We are delighted to announce that the inaugural open research conference at Newcastle University will take place on Friday June 13th, 2025 in the Henry Daysh Building.
Join us at the ReproducibiliTea journal club for an informal discussion about how we can improve transparency, reproducibility and openness in research – with tea (and other refreshments)!
We welcome colleagues and research students from any discipline, regardless of experience or expertise.
We meet on the third Thursday of each month from 12.00 - 13.00 in the Philip Robinson Library Collaborative Learning Hub (unless indicated otherwise.) Participants not able to attend in person are welcome to join us via Teams.
The programme of events and articles for discussion is set out below.
You're welcome to just drop in to any of these meetings, but if you want to join online or stay up-to-date with these and other events, please join us on Teams or on our mailing list .
ReproducibiliTea is run by our UKRN local network leads, Nicola Howe and Clement Lee .
You can contact them both via ukrn@newcastle.ac.uk .
Franziska Hartung , Centre for Behaviour and Evolution.
"The Hitchhiker's guide to Open Science"
Chris Moreh , School of Geography, Politics and Sociology.
Has the Credibility of the Social Sciences Been Credibly Destroyed?
Reanalyzing the “Many Analysts, One Data Set” Project
Cong Zhang , School of Education, Communication and Language Sciences.
Open Science in Linguistics and Beyond.
The movement toward open science is transforming research across disciplines, and linguistics is no exception.
This seminar will explore how my collaborators and I have promoted open science in linguistics to enhance transparency and reproducibility.
Key practices, such as sharing data, tools, scripts, and manuscripts, will be highlighted as ways to incorporate open science into linguistic research.
Additionally, I will introduce the concept of "Big Team Science", exploring how collaborative, large-scale research models can be applied to linguistics to address complex questions and cultivate a more diverse research environment.
Vivek Nityananda , Biosciences Institute.
Incentivising good research practices.
W hat we can do to encourage open and more rigorous research
Kirsten Brandt , Population Health Sciences Institute; Caroline Allen , School of Psychology.
Personality traits and acceptance of a subject-specific disruptive hypothesis
David Smailes UKRN local network lead at Northumbria University.
Where Are the Self-Correcting Mechanisms in Science?
Chris Harrison , School of Mathematics, Statistics and Physics.
Audio Universe: An Open Approach to Turning the Universe into Sound
Postponed : This meeting has been postponed due to Newcastle University UCU strike action.
A new date will be announced shortly.
Helen Gray , School of Natural and Environmental Sciences.
Exploring Open Science in Applied Ethology: Practice and Attitudes among Researchers
Transparency is critical for impactful research.
This is particularly relevant for animal-based research fields, like Applied Ethology, where ethical obligations demand both scientific integrity and responsible use of animals.
While Open Science practices are well-established in some fields, they remain limited in the field of Applied Ethology, for which there is also a lack of standardised guidelines and training.
To assess the prevalence of different Open Science practices in this field, we surveyed attendees of the 2021 virtual International Society for Applied Ethology Congress.
Clement Lee , School of Mathematics, Statistics and Physics.
[Retracted] High replicability of newly discovered social-behavioural findings is achievable.
Jordan Cuff , School of Natural and Environmental Sciences.
The case for open research in entomology: Reducing harm, refining reproducibility and advancing insect science.
This programme will be updated as soon as speakers and topics are confirmed for the remaining journal club events.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/open-research/ukrn-newcastle:
A network to promote openness, transparency and reproducibility in our research
Newcastle is a member of the UK Reproducibility Network .
The UKRN is a national peer-led consortium which strives for the UK to be world leading in rigorous research.
One of the pathways to promote best practice in Open Research is for each member institution to form their own local network.
UKRN Newcastle is our local network.
It provides a forum to discuss issues of openness, transparency and reproducibility in the research we do and how we can create a culture of open research at the university.
Why institutions join the UKRN: insights from researchers - video recorded at the UKRN local network retreat held at Newcastle University in June 2024.
The network is now facilitated by our local network leads Clement Lee and Nicola Howe , who act as a link between the university and the wider UKRN community by engaging in UKRN activities and representing the views of the network in feedback to UKRN.
They also help run our ReproducibiliTea journal club and organise events and drop-in sessions to support colleagues with open research practices.
Administrative support for network activities is provided by former local network co-lead Steve Boneham .
The network is open to anyone and you can join us on Teams and on our mailing list.
We use these channels to share relevant information and events relating to open research and wider research culture.
UKRN Newcastle on Teams UKRN Newcastle mailing list

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/open-research/ukrn-orp:
Accelerating the uptake of open research practices
Newcastle University is a partner in the UKRN-led Open Research Programme , a five-year programme of work across a consortium of universities that aims to accelerate the uptake of open research practices through training and the sharing good practice.
Our contribution
These objectives will be delivered through the programme's main projects.
Training - Enabling UK institutions to improve skills in open research practices
Evaluation - Developing effective ways to assess changes among researchers and institutions
Sharing - Enabling and encouraging institutions to share good practice

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/open-research/champions:
Our Open Research Champions are colleagues or research students who volunteer a small amount of their time to help facilitate the adoption of open research practices within their units.
They do this by promoting and advocating for open research locally, signposting their colleagues to relevant support and providing feedback on challenges of adopting open practices in their discipline.
As this is a voluntary role the activities of each champion may vary, but may include:
We believe local champions will make a real difference to the uptake of open research practices and that by working as a community they can help develop a more open research culture that accomodates differences between disciplines and research methodologies.
Our first cohort of champions includes academics and researchers from units in all our faculties, as well as research students and professional and technical services colleagues as listed below.
If you are interested in representing your unit as an open research champion, please contact the open research team .
Nayara Albrecht
Research Associate/Data Lead for Insights North East.
School of Geography, Politics and Sociology.
Computational political scientist specialising in public policy, policymaking, and governance.
Co-lead of the Researcher Network, a community of postdocs at Newcastle University, and the North East Data Network, advancing data-driven policymaking.
Chair of the International Political Science Association’s Research Committee on Politics and Business.
Gabriel Martinez Vera
Lecturer in Pragmatics, School of English Literature, Language and Linguistics.
Chris Moreh
Lecturer in Sociology, School of Geography, Politics and Sociology
Chris is a Lecturer in Sociology, with primary research interests in the political sociology of international migration, ethnicity, nationalism and urban heritage.
He uses both qualitative and quantitative data sources in his work, and teaches various courses on statistical modelling of sociological data.
He is currently working on a British Academy & Leverhulme Trust funded project aiming to compile an open database of published "social trust" research data to support an applied methodological texbook that places transparent, reproducible research practices at its core.
Victoria Pagan
Senior Lecturer, Newcastle University Business School
Prior to becoming an academic, Vic spent nearly a decade working in a commercial research and consultancy context with a range of public sector clients.
Her research interests are qualitative and interpretivist, focused on: Knowledge- its generation, uses, and violations (epistemic violence, epistemic injustice); Morality and ethics- the expression / suppression of moral emotions; and social justice- equality, equity, diversities, inclusion / exclusion.
She has recently published on her exploration of the uses, and impacts of the uses, of non-disclosure agreements in a range of workplace contexts, specifically the implications for freedom in terms of restriction and liberation across work boundaries (employee/employer perspectives), metaphor and story as a way to resist their impact.
Her work in progress continues to explore tensions between secrecy and transparency, understanding the space between the two, and associated implications for voice including muting and silencing.
Louise Rayne
NUAcT Fellow: Water Security.
School of History, Classics and Archaeology
Cong Zhang
Lecturer in Phonetics and Phonology, School of Education, Communication and Language Sciences
Cong Zhang is a Lecturer in Phonetics and Phonology at Newcastle University.
She holds a DPhil from the University of Oxford and has professional experience in speech technology.
Her research focuses on the prosodic features of speech and uses experimental phonetics and laboratory phonology to explore prosody’s role in shaping communication.
Beyond prosody, her work bridges linguistic theory with speech technology and develops new research methods for phonetics research.
Melissa Bateson
Professor of Ethology, Biosciences Institute.
Melissa is a behavioural biologist with interests in the impacts of limited and unpredictable food (aka food insecurity) on health and welbeing in humans and other animals.
She is President of the Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour.
Franziska Hartung
Lecturer in Cognitive Psychology, School of Psychology.
Franziska is a cognitive (neuro) scientist who works on narrative and moral assumptions we make based on appearance.
Nicola Howe
Research Associate - Methodologist.
NIHR HealthTech Research Centre in Diagnostic and Technology Evaluation.
Nicola is a methodologist working within a multi-disciplinary team to provide support to projects evaluating clinical diagnostic tests.
Her work is primarily qualitative, for example interviewing healthcare professionals regarding implementation of new diagnostic technologies.
Prior to this she worked in clinical trial data management and has a special interest in data sharing and anonymisation.
Nicola is also co-local network lead for the UK Reproducibility Network at Newcastle University and is working to integrate open and transparent methods into her qualitative work.
Glyn Nelson
Specialist Experimental Scientific Officer, Bioimaging Unit.
Glyn manages the Bioimaging Unit, which provides access and training to Light Microscopy provision in the Faculty of Medical Sciences for staff and students from across the University.
As a Fellow of the Royal Microscopical Society, he is involved in their Quality Control interest group as well as being co-chair for an international consortium which aims to provide open tools/ protocols for Quality Control of Microscopes and standardise the image metadata to allow for true reproducibility, re-use and findability of imaging data (www.quarep.org).
Within Newcastle, Glyn has recently established an image database (OMERO) for robust storage and easy sharing of results within the University and externally.
Vivek Nityananda
David Phillips Research Fellow, Biosciences Institute.
Renae Stefanetti
Research Associate, Translational and Clinical Research Institute.
Jordan Cuff
NUAcT Fellow.
Jordan is a NUAcT Fellow and lead of the Foraging Ecology Research Group, which uses molecular and ecological data to investigate what animals eat and why.
Jordan is also an Editor-in-Chief of the Royal Entomological Society (RES) journal Agricultural and Forest Entomology, and sits on the society's Publications Committee which oversees seven journals across entomology.
Through this, Jordan is working with the RES to implement open research practices across the society's remit.
Jordan has been advocating for open research practices throughout his career and regularly engages with these practices across the full research lifecycle.
Thomas Gross
Professor of System Security, Director of Newcastle Centre of Research Excellence in Cyber Security & Resilience School of Computing; NUCoRE Cyber Security and Resilience.
Chris Harrison
Reader in Astrophysics.
School of Mathematics, Statistics and Physics.
Chris works on fundamental research (understanding galaxies and supermassive black holes) and finding new methods to communicate science and data which are more engaging and accessible to wider audiences.
For the latter he is specifically interested in sonification (using sound to represent data).
Ben Hawthorne
PhD Candidate, Ecology Group.
Daniel Hinds
Executive Support Administrator.
School of Natural and Environmental Sciences
Daniel supports the Director of Research and Innovation, Director of Business, Innovation and Skills, Associate Director of Research (Research Culture), and Co-Director of Postgraduate Research in the School of Natural and Environmental Sciences.
Supports the SNES School Research and Innovation Committee, RA Committee and RA Network, Research Excellence Preparation Group, External Advisory Board, and School research symposiums (SNESFest and SNESFestive).
Member of The Researcher Network Steering Group, Research Culture Community Action Team, and SNES Green Impact team.
Clement Lee
Lecturer in Statistics, School of Mathematics, Statistics and Physics.
Clement is a statistician with research focus on Bayesian hierarchical modelling and extreme value analysis of networks, and an advocate for computational reproducibility and writing open-source packages in R.
Clement currently sits on the panel the Royal Statistical Society Statisticians for Society scheme, through which he has worked with charities on making sense of their data.
Tiago Verissimo
PhD Student in Mathematics, School of Mathematics, Statistics and Physics.
Tiago is a mathematics researcher who is always looking forward to advance human knowledge and create impact in society.
We would like to thank the following colleagues who previously acted as open research champions:
The Open Research Champions network is managed as part of the University’s Research Culture Programme .
It is led by Natasha Mauthner (Associate Dean of Good Research Practice) in collaboration with Steve Boneham (Open Research Officer) and with support from the Library Research Services team.
Open research is the cornerstone of responsible, robust and reproducible research.
I'm really excited by the potential of this scheme to break down barriers and open up more conversations across the University about the how and why of open research.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/rdm:
Managing and publishing research data is part of good research conduct.
Research funders also require data to be made openly available with as few restrictions as possible.
The Research Data Service was created to assist researchers during the three key stages of the data lifecycle: planning, working and sharing.
On this page you will also find the range of data repositiories available and become familiar with the issues around the ethical reuse of data for your research.
Finally, you can explore our training opportunities.
Discover the benefits of writing a data management plan (DMP) and research funder expectations.
Find out the options available to store data during your research project.
Decide how best to preserve data of long-term value and learn about data.ncl, Newcastle's Data Repository.
Discover the range of data repositiories available and become familiar with the issues around the ethical reuse of data for your research.
Explore training available for researchers and professional services staff.
Email: rdm@ncl.ac.uk Telephone: +44 (0) 191 208 7663
Library Help Visiting the Library
© 2021 Newcastle University

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/rdm/planning:
This section aims to help you consider all aspects of data management at the start of a research project.
From funder expectations and creating a data management plan (DMP), to re-using data and costing data management activities.
A data management plan (DMP) outlines a project’s p ractical approach to what data will be created, how it will be processed, stored, analysed , and how data of long-term value will be archived and shared .
The content of a plan will vary by discipline but will typically cove r :
Most major funders require applications to inc lu de a data management plan , and all Newcastle postgraduate researchers should develop a DMP as part of their proposal and annual submission.
Maintaining a data management plan for your research project is also good research practice .
It can help you manage and look after your data throughout the lifetime of your research project and should be thought of as a "living" document that can be continually revised and updated to reflect your changing data management needs.
The resulting plan will have short and long-term benefits:
The Research Data Management team are happy to discuss your DMP with you and to provide feedback and comments on your drafted plan.
If you would like to send us your DMP we aim to provide feedback as promptly as possible, subject to demand.
Please make us aware of any urgent deadlines that you have.
To help you get started, we have created guidance and provide an online tool to aid their creation.
PGRs are encouraged to discuss their DMPs with supervisors in the first instance.
Data Management Plans (DMPs) generally require a researcher to describe the research data they will create, how they will do it, how the data will be stored, managed and processed during the project, and how valuable data will be shared.
The resulting plan will have short and long-term benefits.
As part of the process of writing a DMP you should consider:
The Research Data Service (RDS) can review draft DMPs making sure they cover all the key areas.
Many funders make stipulations regarding where and for how long data must be made available following the completion of a project.
Knowing funder codes of practice and expectations early will benefit you.
Email your draft DMP to the research data management team in the library .
To help provide the context to your research, please also send background information along with specific questions you might have.
We aim to review DMPs as soon as possible, please let us know if you have a tight deadline.
DMPonline is a flexible web-based tool that assists in the creation of DMPs.
It provides templates and guidelines for the many of research funders.
DMPOnline provides example DMPs and helps you to create, review, and share data management plans that meet institutional and funder requirements.
It is provided by the Digital Curation Centre.
Data management planning requirements for UK and international funders.
Data management activity needs to be costed into research both during and after a project.
Start to develop a DMP and access templates based on the core research areas in each faculty.
The University's RDM Policy and Code of Good Practice outlines expectations the University and research funders have for researchers.
The majority of research funders have introduced policies on research data.
The main expectation is that publicly funded research data are a public good, should be managed appropriately and made openly available with as few restrictions as possible.
Development opportunities for researchers and Professional Services staff.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/rdm/planning/funder-dmp-requirements:
All funders expect you to share research data that underpin your findings, if it is appropriate to do so.
Your publication should contain a clear data access statment which clearly describes the following:
A data access statement should be clear and honest.
Find more information about data access statements , including examples.
Briefly introduce the types of data the research will create.
Why did you decide to use these data types?
Give details on the proposed methodologies that will be used to create the data.
Advise how the project team selected will be suitable for the data/digital aspects of the work, including details of how the institution’s data support teams may need to support the project
How will the data be stored in the short term?
What backup will you have in the in-project period to ensure no data is lost?
How the data will be stored in the long term?
Where have you decided to store it, why is this appropriate?
How long will it be stored for and why?
Costs of storage – why are these appropriate?
Costs related to long term storage will be permitted providing these are fully justified and relate to the project Full justification must be provided in Justification of Resources (JoR)
How the data will be shared and the value it will have to others
How the data will enhance the area and how it could be used in the future?
Releasing the data – advise when you will be releasing and justify if not releasing in line with AHRC guidelines of a minimum of three years.
If the data will have value to different audiences, how these groups will be informed?
Will the data need to be updated?
Include future plans for updating if this is the case.
d.
Will the data be open or will you charge for it?
Justify if charging to access the data
e.
Financial requirements of sharing – include full justification in the JoR
6.
Ethical and Legal considerations
Any legal and ethical considerations of collecting the data
Legal and ethical considerations around releasing and storing the data – anonymity of any participants, following promises made to participants
AHRC Research Funding Guide
Data sharing policy
Data managment plan
Data summary
FAIR Data
Allocation of resources
Ethical aspects
MRC Policy and Guidance on Sharing of Research Data from Population and Patient Studies
NIHR Open Data
Provide to NIHR a data management and access plan, which must be published (for example through a trial registry, the NIHR Funding and Awards website or a study website).
NIHR will monitor the submission and implementation of data management and access plans.
How can you meet the expectations of the University and Funders?

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/rdm/planning/pgr:
A data management plan (DMP) outlines a project’s practical approach to what data will be created, how it will be processed, stored, analysed, and how data of long-term value will be archived and shared.
The content of a plan will vary by discipline but will typically cover:
As PGR you are expected to upload your DMP as a standalone document within the Project Approval stage.
The plan will then become a ‘living’ document during your research and an updated version of the DMP will be submitted during your Annual Progression Review.
DMPOnline
To write your DMP it is recommended that you use DMPonline, a tool containing University templates, along with detailed guidance to help you.
The Research Data Service has created a practical guide to using DMPOnline.
To help you start to develop a DMP we have created templates roughly based on the core research areas in each faculty.
These are inc lu ded as options within DMPOnline Newcastle to help frame the project’s approach to data management .
This DMP template can be used if your research project is more materials based or with minimal digital data requirements.
The Research Data Service provides DMP training to all PGRs and can be booked through the NCL Workshops portal .
Your supervisor s should review the DMP to ensure it is feasible and appropriate.
You can share your plan by making your supervisor a ‘co-owner’ so that they make comments.
You can request the Research Data Service feedback by requesting expert feedback, but only if this has been agreed upon by the supervisor.
Guide to DMPOnline photo by Solen Feyissa on Unsplash
DMPOnline Newcastle photo by Brooke Cagle on Unsplash

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/rdm/planning/dmponline:
A data management plan (DMP) describes how research data will be managed throughout the research lifecycle.
This includes what research data will be created or collected, how it will be managed during the project, and how it will be shared and preserved at the end of the project.
It should typically also describe any potential legal or ethical issues that need to be addressed.
Newcastle University encourages all research proposals to include a DMP, and most research funders require a DMP to be completed as part of the funding application process.
All PGRs are required to have a DMP for their project proposal and annual progression.
DMPonline is a web-based tool that can help you write your DMP, and the steps below will guide you through the process of writing your DMP using DMPonline.
If you already have a DMPonline account, you can skip this step and go straight to My Dashboard.
If you're using DMPOnline for the first time, you will need to sign up for a free account.
Go to https://dmp.ncl.ac.uk and enter your first name, last name, your Newcastle University email address, organisation (be sure to select “Newcastle University”), and a password.
Tick the box to agree to the terms and conditions and then click the “Create account” button.
Once registered, you’ll be able to sign in by clicking on “sign in with your institutional credentials” and using your Newcastle university login details.
My Dashboard links to previous plans you have created and ones that have been shared with you.
You can use the drop-down menu at the top right of the screen to edit your profile (including notification settings) and log out.
You can create a new DMP by either clicking on the “Create plan” button in your dashboard or clicking on the “Create plans” button in the top menu bar.
This presents you with three simple questions to determine the appropriate DMP template and guidance for your project:
What research project are you planning?
Enter the title of the research project in this box.
Select the primary research organisation
This should already be prefilled with “Newcastle University” and does not need to be changed.
Select the primary funding organisation
Enter the name of the research funder of the project.
If the funder does not appear or the project is not externally funded, tick the box on the right.
Click the “Create plan” button to create the DMP.
Once you have created a DMP as described above, you will be presented with multiple tabs for your DMP.
Note that you can also access the DMP directly at any time from your dashboard.
Project Details
This tab contains all of the details about the project, and you can update the information already present and add new information as required.
Contributors
Here you can add all of the contributors and define their roles: Principal Investigator, Data Manager, or Project Administrator.
Each contributor can have multiple roles.
Plan Overview
This tab simply provides an overview of the DMP template that is being used and will also include links to relevant funder policies and guidance where available.
Write Plan
This is where you write the DMP.
The DMP has been split up into sections, each of which can be expanded to show all of the individual questions.
Enter your response to each of the questions in the text box provided, and if you are unsure what to enter, take a look at the guidance available on the right-hand side next to each question.
If you are using a funder template, the funder guidance will be displayed by default.
There will also be specific University guidance available in the “Newcastle” tab.
Next to the “Guidance” tab, there is also a “Comments” tab.
Here you can enter any comments or queries that you have relating to the specific question.
These comments may be aimed at other collaborators who you have shared the DMP with, or at the University Research Data Service team who you have requested to review the DMP.
Share
The Share tab allows you to set the visibility of the DMP.
All DMPs are set to private by default, but you can select a level of visibility that suits you.
This tab also allows you to share your DMP with collaborators.
Simply enter the email address of any collaborator you wish to share your DMP with (they do not need to have used DMPonline before), select the appropriate permission, and click “Submit”.
You can repeat the process to add multiple collaborators, and once added, it is easy to change the granted permissions, and even remove collaborators if required.
Request Feedback
This tab enables you to request feedback on your DMP from the Research Data Service team.
Click on the “Request feedback” button to have a member of the team read through your DMP and provide feedback in the comment box for all of the relevant questions.
PGRs are encouraged to request feedback from supervisors.
Download
Once you have finalised your DMP, you can use the Download tab to download a copy.
A variety of formats such as .pdf and .docx are available, and you also have the option to include the project details coversheet and supplementary section(s) that are not requested by research funders in the downloaded DMP.
You can view public DMPs by clicking on the “Reference” button in the top menu bar and selecting “Public DMPs” from the drop-down list.
This will present you with all of the public DMPs, and you can use the search box to find DMPs using a specific template.
You can view and edit your profile by clicking on your name on the right-hand side of the top menu bar.
In addition to being able to update your account details, you can also link your DMPonline account to your ORCID iD and institutional credentials (i.e., Newcastle’s Single Sign On).
Linking your account to the Single Sign On means that the next time you log in you can do so by simply clicking on the “Sign in with your institutional credentials” button You can also update your notification preferences.
Be sure to click “Save” to confirm updates to your profile.
Supervisors should review their PGR’s data management plans to ensure they are feasible and appropriate.
A PGR can make supervisors ‘co-owners’ to their plans so you can add comments on each section, ask questions and make suggestions.
To comment on a plan, select it from your DMPonline dashboard and click on the ‘Write Plan’ tab.
Each section can be expanded and feedback added using the ‘Comment’ function.
The ‘Download’ tab can also be used to download the plan in various formats.
The Research Data Service deliver sessions titled ' Introduction to Writing a Data Management Plan ' to all researchers and PGR training through each faculty’s training programme, also available on https://workshops.ncl.ac.uk/ .
Advice is available on the wider Research Data Management website and via rdm@ncl.ac.uk
With thanks to the University of Exeter and the University of Sheffield in supporting the development of this guide.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/rdm/working:
Ensure that your data is stored safely and securely, and discover tools to help you manage your active data sets.
During your research, it is important to ensure that your data is stored safely and securely.
This page outlines the data storage options and directs you towards tools and support to help manage active research data.
Filestore is for active research data and is available for all research projects:
The storage provided is intended for use by project personnel during the project's lifetime.
You will need to plan for the archiving, sharing and deletion of data at project end .
If you’d like support in estimating storage requirements or the costing of storage into research proposals, please get in touch or contact your local computing officer.
The use of portable storage devices (USB sticks, laptops, external hard drives) may be essential for short-term solutions, for instance while travelling or conducting fieldwork.
The master copy of the data should be kept on the University's Filestore service and updated with any changes when possible.
It is also advisable to use encryption to secure files and personal information on portable devices.
Portable devices should be used in conjunction with filestore and collaboration tools to ensure the security of the data.
The managment of the data between these storage options can be covered in a creation of a data management plan .
The University provides a cloud-based solution through Office 365 .
The storage and collaborate tools that are offered with Office 365 can be used in tandem with the filestore.
It is advised that you do not upload personal or sensitive data to services the University does not have a contract with.
This includes many of the 'free' cloud storage providers (e.g.
DropBox and Google Drive).
These providers go against funder and University expectations of data storage and are targeted by hackers.
Make use of Office 365 collaborative tools.
Manage your data to make working with it easier.
Handling personal and sensitive data for your research.
Discover available software and support for data analysis.
Trusted Research aims to support the integrity of international research collaborations.
Those working in academic research need to be aware of these risks and how to protect themselves .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/rdm/working/organise:
Make a plan from the start of your project to save you time.
Planning for this activity from the start of your project can save time and prevent errors.
Develop a file naming convention for your project.
Effective file names are consistent, concise, meaningful and findable:
2016_10_31_Eye_Tracking__012 ActiveDataStorage_05 2016-10-31-Interview-audio-V1
Accessing files, avoiding duplication and adequate back-up of the files requires a little planning.
Much like naming files it is important to be consistent:
How data are collected and analysed will determine the file formats used during a research project.
For long term storage, consider using formats that don't have restrictions on their use.
This means they are more likely to be accessible in the future.
The table below shows popular data formats and the file format options.
.rtf; .txt; .xml
Comprehensive guidance for organising and documenting your data.
Metadata (data about data) and supporting documentation provide the context to research data.
Providing the context will allow the data to be easily retrievable and, importantly, understood in the future.
Metadata will be required to describe the data when you deposit in a repository.
Supporting documentation outlining the data collection method will be required too.
This is often easier to collect during the research project.
Metadata provides an overview of the data, location, access conditions and reuse of the data.
Differing metadata requirements exist but the following standard information is required:
Supporting documentation describes the data and includes:
When uploading to data.ncl it is strongly recommended you complete a README to provide the context to the data record.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/rdm/working/handling-of-personal-and-sensitive-data:
Identifiable or sensitive data about living individuals requires safe handling for research integrity and compliance with the law.
All research data containing personal data is subject to the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and Data Protection Act 2018 (internal site), which forms the data protection regime in the UK.
The Act, enforced by the Information Commissioner's Office , outlines organisations’ responsibilities to personal data.
It also gives individuals rights over their data.
There are also professional bodies’ ethics codes for research to review before collecting and storing personal data.
The ESRC produced a comprehensive list of ethics codes and guidelines .
Research using or collecting personal data needs ethical approval before the project starts.
The Ethics Toolkit has been developed to support researchers through this process.
The overarching rule is to only collect personal and sensitive data if the research requires it.
If you do need to use personal or sensitive data, GDPR makes special provisions for research data as long as it fulfils all the following conditions:
If you use secondary data that is anonymised there is no requirement to comply with the GDPR, but best practice for handling data is still recommended.
If you have identifiable data that requires sharing the data needs to be anonymised.
There are excellent resources to guide you through anonymising data:
If identifiable NHS data are used in your research, you must take care to follow your NHS Trust’s information governance policies and procedures, especially those concerned with ICT security and information risk.
If you do not have, and cannot obtain, research subjects’ consent to use their data in your research, you will need to apply for permission to acquire the data via section 251 of the NHS Act 2006.
Identifiable data held by NHS Trusts may not be:
See additional guidance for Information Governance for obtaining Health & Social Care (HSCIC) data.
It is important to consider the role of consent in allowing data to be preserved and shared.
To meet funder requirements and for the wider benefit to science.
The UK Data Archive have created excellent guidance on consent and includes.
If you would like the RDS to review a project’s consent forms for new or existing projects please get in touch .
Please also note that the University has an ethical review process that should be completed by the PI for each project, and supporting guidance has been developed to support this process.
REDCap is a browser-based Electronic Case Report Form (eCRF) system, designed to capture research data from both research staff in medical settings and directly from patients via online tools.
REDCap is typically used to facilitate secure data capture and analysis for research projects including single and multi-site studies, but more advanced implementations include services such as randomisation, pre-screening and electronic consent.
The system is managed by the NJRO Research Informatics Team , who ensure that patient data is only accessible by authorised individuals and is appropriately anonymised for analysis.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/rdm/sharing:
The Research Data Service aims to support FAIR data (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Reuseable).
Sharing research data has many benefits, from increasing impact and visibility of research to creating new collaborations between data users and creators.
Many research funders and publishers also mandate data sharing.
A step-by-step guide to data sharing:
data.ncl is Newcastle University's research data repository that allows researchers to document, archive and publish datasets, where there isn’t a funder-specified or discipline-specific facility.
The repository will make research data discoverable, promoting reuse, tracking impact, and potentially leading to new collaborations.
Data deposited will be preserved for at least 10 years and in most cases openly accessed.
Access the University’s open research data repository.
Find out how to deposit and share your data.
Guidelines used to review and provide feedback on submitted items before they become public.
Where possible, we recommend using discipline-specific data repositories: you can find one for your subject via Re3data.org .
Some funders expect data to be deposited in specific data centres e.g.
ESRC and NERC support dedicated data centres.
Also consider whether any agreements with your collaborators include requirements for data deposit.
Advice about including data access statements in publications.
Making the most valuable data discoverable.
Sharing software and source code.
Provide context for your research data.
If you believe you have a legitimate reason to request the removal of an item in data.ncl (relating, for instance, to issues with intellectual property, copyright, data protection or other legal issues), please send an email to rdm@ncl.ac.uk with the following details:
We will acknowledge receipt as soon as possible.
Where the grounds for complaint appear to be reasonable, we will temporarily remove the material in question, pending further investigation.
If the complaint is found to be legitimate, the material will be permanently removed from the repository.
Digital Science:
UK Data Service:
Guide to data.ncl photo by Mitchell Y on Unsplash
Reviewing guidelines photo by Reid Zura on Unsplash

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/rdm/sharing/datancl:
Your guide to storing, sharing and managing data, code and methods with data.ncl.
Login into data.ncl using your university credentials.
On your account page (my data tab) click on ‘+ Create a new item’ then:
When you create or edit a record you will need to apply a licence to the data.
Deposited data should as open as possible as closed as necessary and the conditions of the licence applied to the data will affect this.
We recommend licensing data under an open licence that allows for wide reuse and suggest a CC0 or CC-BY licence for datasets and MIT or Apache 2.0 for code .
Figshare provide a guide to the most appropriate licence for data , but you can get in touch with the Research Data Service if you have any questions.
If you are registering a dataset archived elsewhere select the same licence that it has already been published under.
You can create a link to data that has been deposited elsewhere, such as funder specified or a discipline specific repository.
Creating this link in data.ncl will increase the discovery of the data and can be used to form part of a collection or project.
Where possible, the link should be a doi or another type of persistent identifier to maintain the connection to the dataset.
You can create a metadata record only for data that requires to be part of the catalogue but cannot be uploaded.
This could be where the data are non-digital or highly sensitive in nature.
Create a new item record or edit a record in the My data tab and tick the metadata record only and provide a reason.
You can deposit data but apply an embargo on the whole record or individual items.
This allows the data to be deposited and a link created for inclusion in scholarly outputs, but to delay the access to the data.
This is particularly useful if you’re planning to publish from the same dataset again.
There are two options when applying an embargo:
You may want to make the data record findable but not openly accessible by making the data confidential.
Consider the nature of the data as to whether the data can be uploaded to data.ncl or a metadata record is more appropriate.
For highly sensitive data (including identifiable NHS patient data) a metadata record is more appropriate.
When creating a confidential data record, providing a reason and noting if the data can ever be shared will help the data curation process.
Everybody has an initial 20GB of archive storage in data.ncl.
If you require more, you can simply request the additional storage through the My data tab.
To support the request, please provide a reason as this will help us process the application and inform future archive storage provisions.
You can create a private link to the data you have archived with data.ncl before it is published openly.
This can be useful if you would like to share access to project partners.
To create the link upload the data and then click generate private link and save changes rather than publish.
Once the data is ready for publication simply  go back to the record in the My data view and publish the record.
You can also reserve a digital object identifier (DOI) for the archived data, which is useful for peer reviewed journal publishing process.
Rather than publishing the data ahead of the article you can reserve the DOI to create the data access statement for inclusion in the paper and then publish the data once the author accepted manuscript has been submitted.
Data.ncl provides an ORCID integration that, once connected, will allow you to push all of your public items from data.ncl to ORCID.
To push all of your public items from data.ncl to ORCID you need to ensure DataCite is authorised on your ORCID account.
DataCite are responsible for issuing the DOIs to data in data.ncl.
Once authorised, your public data.ncl items will be displayed in the work section of your ORCID profile.
Step 1: Sign in at https://profiles.datacite.org/
Step 2: Sign in with your ORCID
Step 3: Authorise:
You will be presented with a permissions form.
Upon reviewing the Privacy Policy, tick the box alongside 'Allow this permission until I revoke it' and select Authorise.
You will then be taken to your DataCite settings page.
To check the authorisation has worked successfully head back to ORCiD and to your Account Settings tab.
ORCiD should now be listed as a Trusted organisation.
Furthermore, you can set up a DataCite profile (if you don't already have one) and then give DataCite permission to automatically update your ORCID record.
You only have to do that once and DataCite will keep on updating your ORCID record every time they mint a DOI, where your ORCID iD is included in the metadata.
See https://profiles.datacite.org/ and click on ORCID Auto-Update once you have a profile set up.
In this way, you do not have to keep manually adding Figshare items to your ORCID account.
This is especially useful when you have a lot of data!
Step 4: Sync your ORCiD to your data.ncl profile:
Go to your profile page on your data.ncl account and click on Connect and enable syncing with your ORCiD
Step 5: Sign in to ORCID
Step 6: Authorise
Step 7: Your ORCID is now synced
Figshare provides a step-by-step guide to github intergration .
Collections are ways of collating published data within the data.ncl under a theme.
They can be either private or public and can be assigned a DOI.
To creating a collection:
Once you've created the Collection, select Add public items or My data .
You can then select the data to the Collection.
If you select from public items, you can search and select the items you wish to add to your collection.
The same process applies if you choose from your data.
Once you’ve collected your data, you can make your Collection public by selecting the Manage gear wheel on the right side of the screen and selecting Publish collection .
Once you’ve published a collection, it’s permanent.
Projects are collaborative space to prepare data for deposit.
You can upload data that is in progress and users within and beyond Newcastle University can make comments.
Go to your My data page, select the Projects tab and click 'Create a new project' button.
Complete the metadata fields as descriptively as possible.
Either select the individual or group project option.
Add users to the project by searching on the right-hand side.
Add users not currently on Figshare by clicking on the invite new users link.
Users can either be collaborators or viewers.
Collaborators can comment on the project and the data within it and upload items, while viewers can only view the data.
To make the project public, you must first make at least one item public within the project.
Please note: The project owner, collaborators, and viewers cannot edit another uploader’s items.
Items must be downloaded, edited, and re-uploaded to the project.
Select add a new item , which takes you to a new item form.
Once you’ve saved the item, it will appear in the home page of the project.
As a collaborator, you can comment on individual items within the project or on the project as a whole.
Videos on how to deposit data, choose a licence, and creating collections and projects.
Log in, upload and describe your data
data.ncl licencing your data, embargoes and confidentiality
data.ncl Collections
data.ncl Projects

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/rdm/sharing/data-access-statement:
Preparing your research for publication in peer-reviewed journals.
A data access statement informs readers where the underlying research materials associated with a paper are available, and how the research materials can be accessed.
The statement is more effective when there is a persistent link to the dataset, where applicable and appropriate.
If you are planning to publish in peer-reviewed journals or conference proceedings you may be required to link to the data in the publication.
For instance, UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) Open Access Policy requires all research articles to include a data access statement.
This means that even if the data can't be made openly available a statement still needs to be created.
To create a robust data access statement you first must obtain a persistent identifier (e.g.
DOI) from a data repository and use this as the link to the dataset, code or method.
Some funders mandate specific repositories for datasets.
For example, research funded by the ESRC normally is usually deposited in the UK Data Archive ReShare repository.
Otherwise, it is up to the researcher to decide on a suitable repository.
The Research Data Service has guidance on what to consider when choosing a repository and this would be ideally identified during data management planning.
In addition to creating the DOI, the data repository will archive, preserve and where possible provide access to the data.
If the paper does not include a specific location of the statement place it in the acknowledgements.
All data created during this research are openly available at http://dx.doi.org/10.17634/102759-1
Due to ethical concerns, the supporting data cannot be made openly available.
Further information about the data and condition of access are available (DOI or URL).
Data supporting this publication consists of non-digital samples.
They are stored at (department/Newcastle University) and can be made available on request if you can travel to (location of samples).
The study reanalysed existing data that are publicly available from (name location) at (DOI or URL).
Full details of how data were processed are available at (DOI or URL).
No new data were created during this study.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/rdm/sharing/software:
Software is often an essential part of research.
A report by the Software Sustainability Institute (SSI) found that 7 out of 10 researchers’ work would be impossible without it.
One of the main underpinning principles of preserving data is that other people can validate the findings and potentially reuse the data.
If the source code or software is necessary for this to happen, then it would be required to be shared.
data.ncl has a GitHub plugin to allow snapshots of code to be archived in Newcastle's open research data repository.
The SSI produced guidelines on software sharing in response to the EPSRC expectations on data.
Ideally, sharing the software that is required to validate the findings would be preferable.
At a minimum share the data that the software created and supporting description of data.
Even sharing this in a non-proprietary file format may allow others to re-use it as software may be created between deposit and access.
You may be open to sharing the software under certain conditions, for example collaboration.
This can also be included in any data access statement created for the data.
Github is useful while working on your software, but it isn’t a suitable option for the long-term storage and preservation of code.
There are repositories with GitHub plugins that allow you to take snapshots of the code to support publications and at project end.
For example, Zenodo and data.ncl allow you to easily archive and share through a GitHub plugin.
The licence you place on any data has an impact on the way others can use it.
The SSI created guidelines on open source licenses for a software context.
A commercial aspect may develop as the software is created.
If this is one of the expected project outputs, it should be addressed in the data management plan .
In other cases, the balance between sharing the software openly and allowing people to innovate or exploring the commercial potential will need to be considered.
Please consult the Faculty-based Enterprise Teams as early as possible.
The Software Sustainability Institute is a national facility for cultivating and improving research software to support world-class research with a range of resources and an active community.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/rdm/sharing/data-selection:
Preserving all research data collected during a project might seem tempting.
But this approach is costly and makes it difficult to discover the valuable data.
It is also worth remembering that if you have something on file, then it might be subject to a Freedom of Information (FOI) request.
These following questions, based on material devised by the Digital Curation Centre , can help you decide what you should keep and what can be deleted:
Once you have sorted through your files and asked these questions you then need to prepare documentation for the deposit and locate a suitable repository.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/rdm/sharing/preserving-and-publishing-data:
Researchers should consider how to make data that validates research findings and unpublished data of value discoverable and available.
Preserving data maintains safe access to valuable data for reuse by those who collected or created the original data.
And for others who would like to reuse and understand the data.
The Research Data Service can provide guidance on where to store the data if you are unsure where is most suitable.
The UK Data Service outlines several benefits of sharing data:

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/rdm/sharing/reviewing-guidelines:
Research Data Service team review and provide feedback on submitted items before they become public.
For each item, the same following procedure is followed.
The purpose of filling out the metadata form is to support discovery and to maximise the reusability of the item.
Each item should stand-alone and include or have a link to all required information.
The title is mandatory and should have an understandable meaning that is informative yet concise but it should be different to the title of the publication or output.
Ensure the title is meaningful for someone without prior knowledge of the item.
Avoid using underscores and file extensions in the title as it can reduce the findability of an item.
This is a mandatory field where the submitter can add the authors of the item.
Every person that has been involved in the creation of the item should be added here; adding all of the authors makes the item more findable.
You can remove yourself as an author if you are uploading on behalf of someone else.
This is a mandatory field where a discipline category is chosen for the item.
The list of categories is fixed and based on the Australian and New Zealand Standard Research Classification (ANZSRC) Fields of Research (FOR) codes.
Choose all categories that apply for the item.
The list of categories is not specific for the field of life science which sometimes can make it difficult to find a correct category.
However, remember that the keywords can be used to increase specificity in those cases.
The purpose of this field is to select a relevant NUCoRE if the record is associated to one.
If there is no associated NUCoRE then the default option of Newcastle University can be chosen.
The submitter can contact the Research Data Service to suggest a NUCoRE should be included as an option.
This is a mandatory field where the submitter can select what kind of item is being submitted.
The following item types can be uploaded to data.ncl:
This is a mandatory field where the submitter can add keywords.
The keywords can be more specific than the categories and should be used to make the item more findable.
It is possible for institutes or schools to submit this as a keyword.
There is no upper limit of the number of keywords but remember to keep the keywords accurate and relevant.
To increase interoperability of the item the keywords should be written in a formal and broadly applicable language.
It is a free-text field and so special attention should be paid to the correct spelling of keywords.
Misspelling keywords will decrease the findability of the item.
Searches based on keywords are not case sensitive.
This is a mandatory, free-text field where a description of the item needs to be added.
For someone interested in the item it can be informative to know the purpose of the item, e.g.
why was it generated/produced.
If relevant information about specific software needed to open a file and the version of the software used by the submitters should be stated, along with a URL or DOI to this software.
In order to increase interoperability of the item the description should be written in a formal, accessible, and broadly applicable language for knowledge representation.
This is a non-mandatory field that can be used to add funding information related to your data or other materials in this item.
One or several funders and/or grant numbers can be added.
When typing a grant number, the system will automatically search the Dimensions database for the grant.
If the information is found, a hyperlink will be generated to the Dimensions page.
These are non-mandatory fields that allow you to add identifiers or links to any relevant content that help describe or reference the research.
This includes references to content such as pre-prints, project websites and related datasets, or the title and the DOI of the connected article can be added and a title and hyperlink to the publication will appear in a box on the right-hand side of the public page for the item.
This requires that both fields are filled out.
This is a non-mandatory field where references besides the reference to the article directly connected to the item could be listed.
However, when adding a reference, it is preferable to write an explanation for the reference, which is not possible in this field.
Therefore, references can be added, along with an explanation, in the field “Description”.
This is a mandatory field where a licence for the item is stated.
A licence normally limits how the item can be reused and altered, in what context it can be used and how the creator should be credited.
It is recommended that the licence selected be as open as possible.
The appropriate licence can sometimes be specified by the funder, the publisher, or institutional policies.
If access to the item is restricted, a Restricted License should be chosen.
All items apart from code and software:
Code and software
Restricted data
If it is a metadata record only, check that the licence is Restricted Licence.
If it is a linking record to data held elsewhere, check that the licence matches the data in the repository.
After the reviewer has checked the item and its metadata, they will be given three options.
Approve and publish
See “Publish” below.
Decline and return
This option is relevant when the item, in its current state, is unsuitable for publication on the repository.
The submitter will be notified of this by email.
The reviewer should include a comment specifying why the item is declined and returned.
Comment
This option is relevant when there are more substantial ‘errors’ in the item/metadata that needs to be edited by the submitter.
Tick the Notify owner by email box and the comment will be sent to the submitter of the item by email.
The submitter can then reply to this email.
This way, the comments can be discussed in order to make adjustments required before approval.
The option Approve and publish is relevant when the item can be published as it is or when you only detect small ‘errors’ in the metadata that can be edited directly by the reviewer without consulting the submitter.
If there is mandatory metadata missing or if you simply want to change some of the metadata, please use the Save button from the Edit item tab before approving.
If you do not save the changes, you will approve the previous version.
When the reviewer is happy with both the item and its metadata the reviewer should choose the option Approve and publish.
When publishing items in a project, remind the submitter to make the project public.
This is only possible when at least one of the items in the project has been published.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/open-access:
Maximise the visibility and impact of your research
Newcastle University encourages and supports this as an invaluable way to maximise the visibility and impact of research (see the University Open Access Policy ).
The open access team provide support with making papers eligible for REF , meeting research funder requirements , open access funding , including open access block grants and publisher agreements , and archiving publications in ePrints .
The Research Publication and Copyright Policy enables immediate open access for all journal articles and conference proceedings published by our researchers.
Request funds to make your publications open access.
Agreements with publishers that cover or reduce the cost of open access.
Funder requirements for open access and how to comply.
Make your publications open access in the Newcastle University repository.
Whether you're a seasoned researcher, student or simply keen to explore the possibilities within open access, find out what we have on offer.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/open-access/funding:
Open access block grants and other sources of funding
We manage open access block grants from UKRI , Wellcome Trust , Cancer Research UK and the British Heart Foundation .
These grants can be used to pay open access charges for eligible publications that acknowledge support from these funders.
If you believe your publication is eligible for funds from one of these grants please submit an application below.
Apply for Open Access Block Grant Funds
Other funders allow open access costs to be included in grant applications.
This includes the NIHR , European Commission , Blood Cancer UK and Parkinson’s UK .
Where this applies the university statement on open access recommends projects include £6,000 as a directly incurred cost at application.
To help with estimating costs for applications, a study of open access charges paid by UK universities in 2016 reported the average fee for an article was £1,905, with a median value of £1,800 .
Based on our own analysis the average fee we paid in 2021 was approximately £2000.
If you are considering a long-form publication , or are currently in the process of publication, please submit an application form or contact openaccess@ncl.ac.uk to discuss options.
Apply for guidance with your long-form publication
Your paper may be eligible for open access without additional cost through one of the publisher agreements we have.
Please be aware that the eligibility criteria for these agreements vary and that the agreements the university participates in is subject to change.
If publishing in a subscription or hybrid journal you can still provide open access without additional costs via the green route.
All you need do is upload the accepted manuscript to MyImpact and we will make this open access in ePrints in accordance with publisher terms.
In most cases this will meet the open access requirements for REF and of many research funders.
Deposit in ePrints via MyImpact
The university does not have dedicated funds for open access other than the block grants listed above.
However, where no other funds are available to authors and under exceptional circumstances, open access charges may be paid by an author's academic unit or faculty.
If you are not sure who to contact in your unit to discuss this, please contact the open access team .
If no funds are available, you could request a waiver of the fees from the publisher.
The Library was awarded, in 2023, a small QR grant to pay the open access publishing costs of non-funded research in fully open access (OA) journals.
This grant was fully committed for 2023/24 and there are no further funds available.
If you have any comments or questions about this Pilot project, please contact open.access@ncl.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/open-access/funding/apply_longform:
Please complete this form if you are in the early stages of submitting a long-form work for publication and would like additional information and assistance, or if you are interested in submitting a long-form publication funding request to UKRI .
Applications are open for the UKRI open access fund for long-form publications , and must be completed by your research organisation.
The form provides the necessary information for us to complete the UKRI stage 1 application on your behalf.
Your publication must meet the criteria of your funder for any funds to be reserved.
Please do not assume that funds will be available for your publication until this has been confirmed by the open access team and UKRI.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/open-access/funding/apply:
The University receives open access block grants from UKRI , Wellcome Trust , Cancer Research UK and British Heart Foundation .
If your publication acknowledges one of these funders you can request payment of charges for open access by completing the form below.
If your publication does not acknowledge these funders, please refer to our funding guidance .
Your publication must meet the criteria of your funder(s) for us to make a payment.
Please do not assume that funds will be available for your publication until this has been confirmed by the open access team.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/open-access/funders:
Understand the open access policies of major funders.
The open access policies of the major funders of research at Newcastle University are summarised below.
We also recommend authors check that their publication will meet their funder requirements using the following services:
Electronic copies of original research papers published in a peer reviewed journal, and that acknowledge Blood Cancer UK funding, should be made available through Europe PubMed Central within six months of the date of final publication.
Researchers can comply via either the gold or green routes, but the funder prefers gold open access where this is compliant with their policy.
Policy details
Publications arising from Breast Cancer Now funded research must be deposited in Europe PMC no later than 12 months after publication.
The charity now favours the green route to open access, which allows open access at no additional cost.
However, where required open access fees can be paid using any underspend on existing grants.
An electronic copy of the final version of each peer-reviewed primary research paper or non-commissioned review article acknowleding British Heart Foundation (BHF) funding should be made freely available in Europe PubMed Central within 6 months of publication.
Researchers can comply via either the green or gold routes, with a block grant provided to the university to support eligible costs for gold open access.
Please note that grant funds are limited and payments can only be made subject to availabilty.
Cancer Research UK (CRUK) require all peer-reviewed, original research publications which acknowledge a CRUK grant and were accepted for publication from 1 January 2022 to be made open access in Europe PubMed Central upon publication.
Immediate open access can be achieved by publishing gold open access in fully open access, hybrid, or transformative journals (those that have committed to transition to fully open access) or green open access (self-deposit of the article in Europe PubMed Central ).
CRUK provide the university with a block grant to support the costs of gold open access.
COAF ended on September 30th, 2020 and the university no longer receives a COAF grant to support open access.
However, all former COAF partners remain committed to open access and continue to fund open access costs for their researchers.
The open access policy applies for all grants awarded from 1 January 2015 and and all Funded Research consisting of manuscript submissions and data depositions made from 1 January 2021.
It does not apply to invited reviews or monograph or book chapters.
All Funded Research should be published under a CC BY 4.0 or equivalent licence, available open access immediately upon publication, with no embargo period.
A Data Availability Statement must be included in each article.
The foundation will pay resonable fees (article processing charge.
APC) required to publish articles in fully open access journals.
See Directory of Open Access Journals for a comprehensive list.
Accepted articles should be deposited immediately upon publication in PubMed Central or another openly accessible repository, with proper tagging identifying Gates funding.
If not published in a fully open access journal, the author accepted manuscript should be deposited in PubMed Central with a CC BY 4.0 licence.
Grantees must include the following acknowledgment in manuscripts submitted for publication:
“This work was supported, in whole or in part, by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation [grant number].
Under the grant conditions of the Foundation, a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 Generic License has already been assigned to the Author Accepted Manuscript version that might arise from this submission.”
From 1 January 2025 :
Peer-reviewed scientific publications arising from research funded through the Horizon 2020 programmes of the European Commission must be made open access, via either the Gold or Green route.
APC costs for Gold open access publication incurred during projects are eligible for reimbursement by the European Commission.
The Leverhulme Trust does not currently require either mandatory archiving, or open access publication for research outputs.
However you are permitted to include open access charges as an expense .
See the Leverhulme Trust open access policy for further details.
Peer-reviewed research articles (including review articles not commissioned by publishers, final reports or executive summaries) arising from research supported through NIHR funding should be made open access via Europe PubMed Central within six months of publication.
Where open access is provided via the gold route, associated costs can be supported by the original NIHR grant or an NIHR Open Access Fund.
Plan S is an open access publishing initiative from cOAlition S, an international consortium of research funders which includes UKRI, the Wellcome Trust and the European Commission.
Plan S requires that publications arising from research funded through grants from cOAlition S members must be published in open access journals, on open access platforms or made immediately available through open access repositories without embargo.
UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) represents the AHRC , BBSRC , EPSRC , ESRC , Innovate UK, MRC , NERC, Research England and STFC .
Research papers submitted after 1st April 2022 must comply with the UKRI open access policy
Peer-reviewed research articles, reviews and conference proceedings arising from research funded by the UKRI must be made open access via either the gold or green routes.
The UKRI provide a block grant to the university to support the costs of gold open access.
Long-form publications published on or after 1st January 2024 must comply with the UKRI open access policy
In-scope monographs, book chapters and edited collections arising from research funded by the UKRI must be made open access within 12 months of publication.
The UKRI provide support for the costs of gold open access.
Any article submitted for publication from 1 January 2021 that includes original, peer-reviewed research and was supported by Wellcome funding must be made freely available through PubMed Central (PMC) and Europe PMC by the final publication date and be published under a Creative Commons attribution (CC BY) licence or a CC BY-ND licence if approved by Wellcome.
Articles that acknowledge Versus Arthritis funding and are published in a peer-reviewed journal must be deposited in Europe PMC to become open access within six months of publication.
Authors can comply with Versus Arthritis policy via either the gold or green routes to open access, but the funder preference is for immediate gold open access where a compliant option is available.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/open-access/funders/ukri-policy-research-articles:
The UKRI open access policy for research articles applies to:
The policy will also apply to book chapters, monographs and edited collections published on or after 1 January 2024 as described at the UKRI Policy for long-form publications page.
In scope publications must be made open access by the official date of publication and with a CC BY licence (unless UKRI has approved use of a CC BY-ND licence.) These requirements apply whether the publication is made open access via the gold or green route.
UKRI funded researchers are advised to confirm that their chosen journal is compliant via one of the routes described below before submission and to contact us to discuss any issues that arise.
Publish in journal or publishing platform that meets UKRI technical requirements and makes the version of record immediately open access under a CC BY licence (or CC BY-ND if approved by UKRI ).
You can comply via this route when publishing in a fully open access journal , a subscription journal included in one of our transformative agreements or subscription journal that has been approved by Jisc as meeting the research sectors requirements for transition to open access .
Publish in a subscription journal (that is not covered by a transformative agreement) and make the author accepted manuscript (AAM) open access in a compliant repository by the date of final publication and under a CC BY licence.
No publisher embargo period between publication and open access of the AAM is permitted.
To facilitate compliance via this route all submissions must include the following statement in the acknowledgements and in any accompanying cover letter:
For the purpose of open access, the author has applied a Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) licence to any Author Accepted Manuscript version arising.
Note, where permitted by UKRI, an ‘Open Government Licence’ or ‘Creative Commons Attribution No-derivatives (CC BY-ND) licence may be stated instead with the text adjusted accordingly.
Please note that the publishing agreements of many journals impose terms that would not currently allow compliance via this route.
Authors may therefore need to retain the right to make their accepted manuscript open access on publication under the CC BY licence.
Please refer to our guidance on the University Research Publications & Copyright Policy for more information on how we can support you with this.
The university's UKRI block grant can be used to pay open access charges for publishing in fully open access journals and in journals that meet sector requirements for transformative journals ( as defined by Jisc ).
Tools to allow authors to identify such journals are in development.
The UKRI block grant cannot be used to fund open access in subscription journals that do not meet Jisc requirements for transformative journals or transitional agreements.
Authors intending to publish in such journals would need to find an alternative source of funding to meet any open access publication costs.
Please note that when publishing in a subscription journal included in one of our transformative or publisher agreements there will be no additional costs for compliant open access.
Apply for UKRI funds
You must include a data access statement in your article, even where there is no data associated with the article or the data are inaccessible.
This informs readers where the underlying research materials associated with a paper are available, and how the research materials can be accessed.
The statement can include links to the dataset, where applicable and appropriate.
The university research data service provides guidance on creating data access statements .
Biomedical research articles that acknowledge MRC or BBSRC funding are required to be archived in Europe PubMed Central .
For outputs produced by researchers at the British Antarctic Survey, British Geological Survey, UK Centre for Ecology and Hydrology and the National Oceanography Centre, a copy of the publication should be deposited in NORA .
Preprints are not in-scope of the UKRI open access policy.
However, UKRI encourages the use of preprints to facilitate open research practices.
UKRI open access policy
UKRI open access policy FAQs
UKRI Open Access Policy: explanation of policy changes
Shaping our open access policy
The new UKRI open access policy will apply to book chapters, monographs and edited collections published on or after 1 January 2024 and which need to acknowledge funding from one of the UK Research Councils (AHRC, BBSRC, EPSRC, ESRC, MRC, NERC and STFC), Innovate UK or Research England.
See UKRI Policy for long-form publications for further details.
UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) represents the AHRC , BBSRC , EPSRC , ESRC , MRC , NERC and STFC .
Peer-reviewed research articles (including non-commissioned reviews) and conference proceedings arising from research funded by the UKRI must be made open access via either the Gold or Green routes.
The decision on which route to open access to follow remains at the discretion of the researchers and their research organisations.
University Research Commitee (URC) agreed that where an UKRI-compliant green open access option is offered by the publisher, authors are expected to comply via this route.
Gold open access will only be paid for publications in open access journals or where the paper cannot comply with UKRI policy via the green route.
Where an UKRI-compliant green open access option is offered by the publisher, Newcastle University authors should comply via this route by publishing the article as subscription access and uploading the accepted manuscript to MyImpact .
The version uploaded should be the author's manuscript after any changes from peer review, but before publisher copy-editing and typesetting.
UKRI policy allows for publisher embargos on access to manuscripts of 12 months for STEM disciplines (BBSRC, EPSRC, STFC and NERC) and 24 months for arts, humanities and social science (AHRC and ESRC).
For papers acknowledging MRC funding, the maximum embargo is 6 months from publication in all circumstances.
The open access team check publisher terms and conditions for all manuscripts uploaded to MyImpact before making them open access in ePrints.
We will contact authors to discuss any issues with meeting the requirements of the UKRI open access policy.
Papers acknowledging MRC funding should also be deposited in Europe PubMed Central within 6 months of publication.
MRC grantholders will have been issued with a Europe PMC Plus account to deposit papers.
UKRI provide a block grant to the university to support authors with the costs associated with Gold open access.
URC agreed this grant can only be used for eligible publications in fully open access journals or where the paper would be non-compliant with UKRI policy via the green route.
Where an UKRI-compliant green open access option is offered by the publisher, applications will be rejected and authors advised how to comply via the green route.
Additionally, the maximum open access fee ( inclusive of VAT) that can be paid from this grant is capped at £3,500 for subscription (hybrid) journals and £5,000 for fully open access journals.
Page and colour charges cannot be claimed.
Therefore to be eligible for funds from the UKRI grant, publications must meet the following criteria:
If your publication meets these criteria, you should choose Gold open access and apply for UKRI funding .
The university has also entered into transformative agreements with publishers to provide UKRI-compliant open access at no additional cost to authors or the institution.
The UKRI policy on Open Access requires "all research papers, if applicable, to include a statement on how underlying research materials, such as data, samples or models, can be accessed".
The Research Data Service can provide guidance on what to include in the data access statement, where to store the data, and under what conditions data does not need to be made open.
UKRI Open Access Policy and Guidance

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/open-access/funders/ukri-policy-long-form-publications:
If you are considering a long-form publication, or are currently in the process of publication, please contact openaccess@ncl.ac.uk or complete the form below to discuss options.
Contact us for help with your UKRI long-form publication
The UKRI open access policy for long-form publications applies to:
The policy also applies to peer-reviewed research articles , including reviews and conference papers submitted on or after 1 April 2022.
For in-scope publications, the final Version of Record (VoR) or the Author’s Accepted Manuscript (AAM), including, where possible, any images, illustrations, tables and other supporting content, must be free to view and download via an online publication platform, publishers’ website, or institutional or subject repository within a maximum of 12 months of publication.
The AAM should be clearly marked as not the final published version.
The open access version must have a Creative Commons licence .
A Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) licence is preferred, but other Creative Commons licences are permitted.
An Open Government Licence is also permitted when authors are subject to Crown Copyright.
Third-party material may be included under a more restrictive licence or an 'All Rights Researved' basis.
The publication must acknowledge UKRI funding to be considered in-scope of the policy.
This should be a sentence with the funding agency written out in full, followed by the grant number in square brackets (if you have one).
‘This work was supported by the Medical Research Council [grant number xxxx]’.
UKRI recognise there may be instances where it is not possible to meet the open access requirements for long-form publications and appropriate exemptions may apply, see below.
UKRI recognises that there may be instances where meeting open access requirements for long-form publications is not possible.
The following exemptions may then apply:
If an exemption may apply, please contact openaccess@ncl.ac.uk .
Exemptions should be discussed with the chosen publisher and the library.
If you are publishing a trade book that acknowledges UKRI funding but is not open access, please also contact openaccess@ncl.ac.uk .
UKRI will provide a dedicated open access fund for monographs, book chapters and edited collections from January 2024 when making the VoR open access on publication.
This will be a centralised fund held by UKRI that organisations will apply for rather than individual authors or editors.
Applications for this fund opened 28 November 2023.
Please contact openaccess@ncl.ac.uk for further information.
If you believe your publication is eligible for UKRI funds please submit an application below.
Apply for UKRI long-form publication funds
UKRI will contribute up to the following maximums (inclusive of VAT, where applicable):
Up to £2,000 within the funding maximum for an output can be applied for to support costs associated with clearing permissions for third-party content to be included in the open access version of the publication.
However, these costs should be accounted for in grant applications, where possible.
Note, if the costs for publication exceed the UKRI maxumiums, it is not allowable to top up from research grants.
If research grants explicity include costs for open access to longform publications these must be used first before applying to the fund.
The pilot Jisc tool Open Access for Books offers an overview of publishers' book policies, which may help when considering options.
More publishers will be added over time.
You should choose the publisher most approriate for your research.
When choosing a publisher, and before entering any contract:
The JISC guide: An introduction to UKRI’s fund for longform outputs .
The OAPEN OA Books Toolkit aims to help book authors to better understand open access book publishing and to increase trust in open access books.
The Open Book Environment (OBE) Dashboard aggregates data from a multitude of publishers, with the aim of fostering transparency and clarity in open access book publishing.
UKRI open access policy: frequently asked questions
If you ackowledge UKRI funding in your manuscript, you can apply for funds from UKRI through the library.
If you acknowledge the Wellcome Trust, please see the ' Monographs and book chapters ' section on the Wellcome Trust Policy page.
If you acknowledge a different funder or are not funded, we are happy to discuss your options with you.
Contact openaccess@ncl.ac.uk for further details.
From 31 October 2023, it is no longer permitted to include publication costs for long-form publications in-scope of the open access policy in research funding applications.
An exception to this is anticipated costs for clearing rights for third-party materials such as images that will be needed to publish your research.
These should continue to be included in research funding applications.
If you have included open access costs in your grant application, you must use this funding for open access publications instead of applying to the dedicated fund.
See the UKRI open access funding and reporting for further details.
You can still publish your UKRI-funded monograph open access.
If your publisher offers a compliant open access option, UKRI will fund charges regardless of when you signed your contract (provided all other requirements are met).
Contact openaccess@ncl.ac.uk to discuss your options.
The UKRI Open Access policy permits compliance without cost, provided the version of record or author's accepted manuscript is free to view and download via an online publication platform, publishers’ website, or institutional or subject repository within a maximum of 12 months of publication.
Contact openaccess@ncl.ac.uk to discuss the options permitted by your publisher.
No, the UKRI open access fund for long-form publications do not support retrospective open access.
There is no limit to the number of requests an author or editor can make to UKRI, via the library.
Each output must acknowledge funding from UKRI.
If your publication does not acknowledge any funder, there is no requirement for you to publish open access.
However, the University would encourage open access where possible, such as through the deposition of your author accepted manuscript into the institutional repository.
If you acknowledge a different funder, please check their publications policy for any open access requirements.
We are happy to discuss your options with you.
No, please contact openaccess@ncl.ac.uk to discuss your options.
UKRI want to be notified when an exemption is applied.
Contact the open access team if you think an exemption applies, as compliance may still be possible.
UKRI’s open access policy does not apply to the following long-form outputs:
For PhD students, the policy focuses on the UKRI-funded research outputs produced rather than the circumstances of the researcher.
Policy exemptions would apply to outputs rather than authors.
However if the output is a the result of a training grant an exemption can apply:
"where a monograph, book chapter or edited collection is the outcome of a UKRI Training Grant.
Where possible, UKRI expects research organisations to support researchers to make such outputs open access.
However, it recognises that publication may occur sometime beyond the lifetime of a training grant"
Please note that requirements for the publication of theses in the UKRI standard terms and conditions of training grants still apply.
There is an expectation that UKRI-funded PhD theses will be published open access with a maximum 12 month embargo, and that any book derived from a UKRI-funded PhD/thesis that acknowledges UKRI would be expected to comply with the OA policy.
Long-form publication that communicated an original contribution to academic scholarship on one topic or theme and is designed for a primarily academic audience.
It may be written by one or more authors.
Written scholarly output, formally published for the first time, together with similar outputs from other authors in a single publication, forming a permanently identifiable set of contributions on a common theme, bearing an International Standard Book Number (ISBN).
This includes chapters in academic books arising from conferences.
Written scholarly output in which individual chapters or contributions have been written by different authors, and whereby the contributions from each author are intellectually distinct.
This includes edited book collections arising from conferences.
An edited book collection may arise from a conference, but it is constructed as a publication in its own right rather than reproducing the proceedings of the conference.
In-scope edited collections must acknowledge UKRI funding and where the editor(s) satisfy at least one of the following conditions:
The complete edited collection must be made available open access, regardless of whether the authors of chapters comprising a collection were or are supported by UKRI.
An academic monograph or edited collection rooted in original scholarship that has a broad public audience, a trade book is only in scope of the policy where it is the only output from UKRI-funded research.
The decision of whether a book is considered trade book or academic monograph is at the discretion of the author and publisher.
Decision-making should be informed by:
A book chapter may be exempt from the policy if the edited collection within which it is published is a trade book.
The final reviewed, typeset and edited version of a research output that is published.
The final author-created version of the manuscript, as agreed with the editor, that has been accepted for publication, prior to typesetting by the publisher.

New sentences found on https://ncl.ac.uk/library/academics-and-researchers/lrs/open-access/funders/wellcome:
Wellcome's open access policy applies to articles submitted for publication from 1 January 2021 that include original, peer-reviewed research and was supported by Wellcome funding.
All such articles must be made freely available through PubMed Central (PMC) and Europe PMC by the final publication date and be published under a Creative Commons attribution (CC BY) licence (or CC BY-ND if approved by Wellcome .) Original scholarly monographs and book chapters authored or co-authored by Wellcome grantholders as part of their grant-funded research should also be made open access.
There are 4 routes to compliance with this policy:
You can check which routes are available with your chosen journal using the Journal Checker Tool .
More detail on each of these routes is provided below.
You can publish in any journal published by open access publishers such as PLOS , BioMed Central , MDPI and Frontiers , as well as in individual open access journals from other publishers, such as Nature Communications or BMJ Open .
Wellcome will fund fair and reasonable charges for publication in open access journals that:
If your journal meets these requirements you can apply for relevant charges to be paid from our Wellcome Trust open access block grant.
Apply for Wellcome funds
Transformative agreements provide our corresponding authors with Wellcome-compliant open access at no extra cost.
The university has transformative agreements with many publishers, including Elsevier, Wiley, Springer, OUP, CUP and others.
You can use the Journal Checker Tool to confirm if we have a transformative arrangement that covers your preferred journal.
Please note eligibility for transformative agreements is based on the affiliation of the corresponding author .
Where a subscription journal outside of a transformative agreement has been granted Transformative Journal status the open access charges can be paid from our Wellcome open access block grant (until 31 December 2024).
You can publish in any subscription journal providing that the Wellcome Trust funded author takes responsibility for making the author accepted manuscript (AAM) freely available in Europe PMC at the time of publication and under a CC BY licence (or CC BY-ND, if pre-approved by Wellcome ).
By applying a CC BY (or CC BY-ND, if approved) licence to all journal submissions authors retain the right to comply via this route.
Wellcome have informed publishers of this requirement.
However, grantholders must also include the following text with all submissions to peer-reviewed journals in cover letters and funding acknowledgements of the manuscript:
If Wellcome have granted permission for an individual article to be published under a Creative Commons No-Derivatives (CC BY-ND) licence the altenative text below should be included with the journal submission:
Before submitting manuscripts to a journal Wellcome-funded authors should check that the terms of the standard publishing contract will not restrict compliance via this route.
Researchers should not sign a publishing contract that prevents them making the AAM freely available in PMC without embargo and under a CC BY (or CC BY-ND) licence.
If a journal refuses to accept a submission that makes clear that the AAM is licensed under a prior CC BY or CC BY-ND licence, Wellcome recommend authors reconsider where they publish their research and inform them of the issue.
Where a journal accepts a submission with a prior CC BY or CC BY-ND licence, but on acceptance imposes terms and conditions via a publishing agreement or otherwise that prevent compliance, Wellcome funded authors should follow these steps:
Authors should also refer to our guidance on the University Research Publications & Copyright Policy for information on how this can help them retain the right to make their accepted manuscripts open access on publication under the CC BY licence.
Researchers should use the Version of Record or Author Accepted Manuscript to comply with the policy (routes 1, 2 or 3), where this is possible and depending on the publishing options available to them.
If using a preprint to ensure compliance, researchers must post it to a preprint server indexed by Europe PMC before final publication of the paper, under a CC BY licence.
All research articles supported in whole, or in part, by Wellcome must include a statement explaining how other researchers can access any data, original software or materials underpinning the research.
This is in line with our data, software and materials management and sharing policy .
Advice and support for this is avaialble from the university research data management service .
Original scholarly monographs and book chapters authored or co-authored by Wellcome grantholders as part of their grant-funded research must be made freely available via PMC Bookshelf and Europe PMC as soon as possible, with a maximum embargo of six months.
The Wellcome Trust grant cannot be used to pay open access fees associated with Wellcome-funded scholarly monographs and book chapters.
Instead, researchers should follow the Wellcome Trust procedure for reimbursement of open access fees for scholarly monographs and book chapters .
Where an open access fee is levied by the publisher, the work must be made open access without embargo and be licensed to allow re-use.
The Creative Commons CC-BY licence is strongly preferred, but CC-BY-NC and CC-BY-NC-ND licences will be accepted.
Wellcome may impose sanction on researchers and organisations who do not comply with this policy, including not accepting new grant applications or suspending funding to organisations in extreme cases.
Wellcome are committed to assessing research outputs during funding decisions on the intrinsic merit of the work, rather than the the title of the journal or publisher.
They therefore expect organisations that receive Wellcome funding to publicly commit to the principles of responsible research assessment, as the university has done in the Policy Statement on Responsible Research Metrics .