# Site: https://www.northumbria.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 496
# --------

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk:
Study
.
International
Northumbria’s global footprint touches every continent across the world, through our global partnerships across 17 institutions in 10 countries, to our 277,000 strong alumni community and 150 recruitment partners – we prepare our students for the challenges of tomorrow.
Discover more about how to join Northumbria’s global family or our partnerships.
Business
The world is changing faster than ever before.
The future is there to be won by organisations who find ways to turn today's possibilities into tomorrows competitive edge.
In a connected world, collaboration can be the key to success.
Research
Northumbria is a research-rich, business-focused, professional university with a global reputation for academic quality.
We conduct ground-breaking research that is responsive to the science & technology, health & well being, economic and social and arts & cultural needs for the communities
About Us
Northumbria University is the Modern University of the Year 2025.
Alumni
Northumbria University is renowned for the calibre of its business-ready graduates.
Our alumni network has over 250,000 graduates based in 178 countries worldwide in a range of sectors, our alumni are making a real impact on the world.
CLEARING PLACES STILL AVAILABLE
I AM NU
Starting in September?
Find everything you need to get ready in our I AM NU hub.
CLEARING FAQs
TARIFF POINTS
STUDENT SUPPORT
CONFIRMATION
ACCOMMODATION
STUDENT FINANCE
ADVICE FOR PARENTS
© Copyright 2025 Northumbria University.
All material provided subject to copyright permission.
Back to top

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria:
Explore study options at Northumbria from Undergraduate, Postgraduate, Degree Apprenticeships & CPD.
Find out about course information, accommodation, finance, including how to manage your money in our Cost of Living guide and more.
You can use our Jargon Buster to better understand academic terminology when picking your course.
View our Continuing Professional Development (CPD) / Short Courses →
UNDERGRADUATE STUDY
POSTGRADUATE STUDY
OPEN DAY EVENTS
HOW TO BECOME AN APPRENTICE
Fees and Funding
Undergraduate | Newcastle | 4 years Full Time or 5 years with a placement (sandwich)/study abroad
For those applying for 2026, study an extended degree for an extra year of preparation and skills-building modules.
Undergraduate | Newcastle
Develop specialised knowledge in accounting and finance and gain transferable professional and managerial skills.
1 year Full Time / Sep start
2 years Full Time or 3 years with a placement (sandwich)/study abroad / Sep start
Undergraduate | London | 1 year Full Time
The Accounting and Finance completion award will help you build all-round business knowledge, with additional expertise in accounting…
Postgraduate | Newcastle
The Accounting and Finance MSc will equip you with the skills and knowledge needed to gain a thorough understanding of global financial…
16 months Full Time / Jan start
Undergraduate | Newcastle | 3 years Full Time or 4 years with a placement (sandwich)/study abroad
Gain a deeper understanding of financial information and how to apply this for building a rewarding career.
Undergraduate | Newcastle | 1 year Full Time followed by a further 3 years Full Time or 4 years with a placement (sandwich)/study abroad
Gain an understanding of the wider financial world and how to apply your knowledge to practical, real-world examples.
Gain an in-depth understanding of technology and advanced technical skills in computing with the Advanced Computer Science MSc, at…
2 years Full Time with Advanced Practice / Sep, Jan start
16 months Full Time / Sep, Jan start
Join us in powering the next generation of space innovation.
Our Aerospace Satellite Engineering BEng (Hons) will equip you with the…
Postgraduate | Newcastle | 1 year Full Time
Our Aerospace Satellite Engineering MSc will equip you with the key skills…
Want to learn more about the history, literature, politics, film, art and popular culture of America?
This course may be for you.
For individuals at the start of their careers as English Language teachers and also for more experienced teachers.
This course offers…
2 years Part Time / Sep start
Passionate about science?
This course will give you wider scientific knowledge to help you decide your ideal degree destination.
Postgraduate | Newcastle | 4 years Part Time
Qualify as a Chartered Architect whilst in full-time employment working on design projects based on real challenges from your employment.…
Undergraduate | Newcastle | 5 years Full Time
Gain an understanding of the wider world of architecture and how to apply your knowledge to practical, real-world examples.
Undergraduate | Newcastle | 3 years Full Time or 4 years with study abroad
Dreaming of a career in architecture?
This course is designed to give you the skills that are needed to succeed as an architect.
Undergraduate | Newcastle | 2 years Full Time
This integrated masters will equip you with the skills needed to be a successful architect.
Interested in Technology?
Study, learn and master the technology that is going to change our relationship with computers forever.
Northumbria University’s Artificial Intelligence MSc course provides an exciting opportunity to those with any background, who want…
Postgraduate | London | 2 years Full Time with Advanced Practice
Artificial Intelligence Technology MSc with Advanced Practice is focused on developing your abilities as a digital leader, capable…
Postgraduate | London
Artificial Intelligence Technology MSc is focused on developing your abilities as a digital leader, capable of identifying and implementing…
1 year Full Time / Sep, Jan, May start
Develop your abilities as a digital leader, capable of identifying and implementing technical solutions to deliver future improvements…
This innovative Arts MRes course offers you the opportunity to undertake a closely-supervised piece of original research within a broad…
Postgraduate | Newcastle | 24 months Part Time
The Autism MA offers a flexible framework of modules which will allow you to tailor your learning around your life.
You will benefit…
Want a career in the automotive industry?
Learn how to make cars better, safer, cleaner and more sustainable on this course.
The new Bar Course is replacing the BTPC, to support your knowledge and practical skills crucial to practice at the modern bar.
Find…
Northumbria University’s Bar Course LLM will support you in acquiring the necessary knowledge and practical skills crucial to practice…
Postgraduate | Newcastle | 1 year Part Time
The Bar Knowledge Course is the first step in Northumbria’s alternative barrister training route.
The Bar is a demanding profession,…
The Bar Skills Course is the second step in Northumbria’s alternative barrister training route.
Data Scientists conduct applied research to create innovative data-driven solutions to business problems.
Usually, they work with large,…
Postgraduate | London | 1 year Full Time
Enrich your understanding…
Enrich your understanding of all cellular life and the biological processes that influence all living organisms with this course.
Turn your passion for biology into a career.
Deepen your understanding of living systems and investigate what will shape their future.
Interested in science and want to make a difference?
Learn the skills to make an impact on health, diagnosis and treatment of disease.
3 years Full Time or 4 years with a placement (sandwich)/study abroad / Sep start
6 years Part Time / Sep start
Do you want to focus your scientific career on one of the fastest moving sectors of science?
The UK has hundreds of biotech companies…
Apply technical and legal expertise across various projects, ranging from large commercial developments to smaller residential refurbishments.…
2 years Full Time with Advanced Practice / Sep start
This course provides you with the skills to explore techniques, identify patterns, interpret trends and inform business development.
This course is an innovative programme designed to equip you with all the skills you need to bring your business ideas to life.
Develop your capabilities to work at a strategic level around attracting, developing and engaging the right people with this course.
Undergraduate | London | 3 years Distance Learning
Take your learning further and turn your Level 4 qualification into a full undergraduate degree with our distance learning Business…
Undergraduate | Newcastle | 18 months Distance Learning
If you have a Level 5 qualification in a business or management related subject, our course will allow you to gain a BA (Hons) top…
The Foundation Year prepares you for entry onto a degree programme in a Business School in the top 1% of institutions around the world.
Enhance leadership and international business skills with a focus on sustainability, preparing graduates for diverse management roles.
2 years Part Time (Distance Learning) / Jan, Apr, Jul start
On this course, you’ll combine broader learning of business with specialist studies in marketing to prepare for your chosen career.
Gain the ideal balance between a broad understanding of business and a more focused emphasis on supply chain management.
Learn how to help keep businesses functioning by gaining knowledge of software, hardware and information systems on this course.
This course will equip you with the skills, qualities and capabilities valued by employers across all business sectors.
Undergraduate | Newcastle | 3 years Full Time
Offering a range of study options, Business Management BA (Hons) is the most flexible undergraduate degree at Newcastle Business School,…
Postgraduate | London | 2 years Full Time
Are you looking to complement your undergraduate studies with a business-focused Masters degree that will enhance your employability?…
Postgraduate | London | 2 years Full Time (with Advanced Practice in the second year)
This course with advanced practice develops broad business skills as you can choose whether your studies include either an internship,…
Are you looking for a business-focused Masters degree that will enhance your employability?
The MSc Business with Entrepreneurship…
The MSc Business with Financial Management with Advanced Practice programme will give students both general business knowledge and…
This programme is run as part of our Newcastle Business School, part of an elite group of business schools holding the double AACSB…
Are you looking to complement your undergraduate studies with a business-focused master’s degree that will enhance your employability?…
The MSc Business with Human Resource Management will help you to develop a broad range of business skills whilst developing your understanding…
Are you looking to complement your undergraduate studies or professional skillset with a business-focused Masters degree that will…
By studying on this course you will study a subject area that opens up many career paths for you.
The Advanced Practice element of…
This course is part of Newcastle Business School, the first business school in the UK to gain the prestigious AACSB accreditation.…
This course is part of our Newcastle Business School, which has a global reputation for delivering some of the best business management…
Undergraduate | Newcastle | 3 years Part Time
This apprenticeship enables students to develop the knowledge, professional skills and personal behaviours required to become a fully…
Undergraduate | Newcastle | 4 years Part Time
Our Chartered Surveyor Degree Apprenticeship within Quantity Surveying has been designed for those who are already within the industry…
Study diverse chemistry…
Study diverse chemistry topics and gain hands on practical experience in order to become a well-rounded chemist on this course.
Study diverse chemistry topics and gain hands on practical experience to become a well-rounded chemist with this integrated masters.
Study a Childhood and Early Years Masters at Northumbria University, Newcastle.
Undergraduate | Newcastle | 4 years Full Time
Choose our Early…
Study a Childhood and Early Years Degree at Northumbria University, Newcastle
Our civil engineering…
Gain the knowledge and understanding of classical core engineering principles and resolve real-world engineering problems.
Undergraduate | Newcastle | 5 years Part Time
The BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering Degree Apprenticeship at Northumbria University offers a unique opportunity to gain hands-on experience…
Join our Clinical Exercise Physiology Master's course and discover the science and applied research approaches needed to study acute…
Transform your creativity into impactful design solutions that drive social change and prepare you for a dynamic career.
Postgraduate | Newcastle | 1 year Full time or 2 Years Part time
The Community Specialist Practice Qualification (SPQ) Higher Apprenticeship programme is designed to equip Postgraduates with the skills…
Study core computing topics from programming to architecture and graduate as an expert in software development and engineering.
Are you excited by the impact of technology on our everyday lives and keen to forge a successful career in the field?
Postgraduate | Newcastle | 2 years Distance Learning
Drive digital change on Northumbria's distance learning Computer Science with Artificial Intelligence MSc.
Specialise in AI to help…
Drive digital change on Northumbria's distance learning Computer Science with Data Analytics MSc.
Understand big data, programming,…
Undergraduate | Newcastle | 1 year Full Time
Graduate with technical fluency and applied experience by combining team-based software projects with a personal, research-focused…
Undergraduate | Newcastle | 1 year Full Time followed by a further 3 years Full Time or 4 years with a placement (sandwich)
This course will introduce you to the various facets of computing and help you to make a decision about which course to study.
Postgraduate | London | 2 years Part Time
This MSc Computing and Technology programme is designed specifically to enable you to update, extend and deepen your knowledge in computing…
Postgraduate | London | 16-24 months Full Time
The MSc Computing and Technology with Advanced Practice programme is designed specifically to enable you to update, extend and deepen…
The MSc Computing and Technology programme is designed specifically to enable you to update, extend and deepen your knowledge in computing…
Undergraduate | London | 3 years Full Time
Computing with Artifical Intelligence Technology BSc (Hons) will provide you with a recognised undergraduate qualification which combines…
Undergraduate | London
Computing with Cyber Security Technology BSc (Hons) aims to develop your knowledge and skillset in information governance, information…
3 years Full Time / Sep start
According to the UK National Data Strategy (Department for Digital, 2020), there is a need in the market for those with qualifications…
Computing with Information Technology Management BSc (Hons) can prepare you for various careers in Innovation Technology Design, Business…
Undergraduate | London | 54 months Part Time
This programme will help equip you with key knowledge and skills in cutting-edge computing technologies, allowing you to discover new…
Computing with Technology BSc (Hons) will help equip you with key knowledge and skills in cutting-edge computing technologies, allowing…
Postgraduate | Newcastle | 2 years Full Time
Would you like to apply your arts or applied sciences background to the conservation of fine art?
Explore how the construction process works, and how you can manage it to deliver the best results for society and the environment.…
Enhance your professionalism in managing construction projects and supply chains, and foster collaboration among teams while utilising…
This degree apprenticeship was developed in collaboration with our construction partners, to meet the requirements of a national contractor…
Advance your creative career to foster innovation and leadership in cultural activities and management.
Gain a solid grounding in the techniques and skills of writing fiction, learn how to critique your own work and experiment with your…
This postgraduate course provides you with the opportunity to study historical, comparative and contemporary criminological theory,…
Gain experience…
Gain experience and insight into the study of crime and its investigation within the criminal justice system on this course.
Develop your intellectual curiosity and grow your knowledge of criminological and sociological theories and concepts on this course.
If you’re interested in the causes of crime and victimisation, and the ways in which societies respond to it, this course is for you.
With the dramatic increase in high-profile cyber security incidents reported in the media, the demand for highly skilled security professionals…
Our MSc Cyber Security provides you with a critical understanding of information governance and assurance, combined with technology…
2 years Part Time / Sep, Jan, May start
2 years Distance Learning / Oct, Jan, Apr, Jul start
This programme is designed specifically to enable you to update, extend and deepen your knowledge in Cyber Security and related technology…
This programme has been designed for those who have an undergraduate degree in any discipline who wish to study for a qualification…
Postgraduate | Newcastle | 1 year Distance Learning
Typically information governance/security and law have been taught as distinct subjects in different discipline areas.
In recognition…
Prepare for your career in one of computing’s fastest growing areas and be at the forefront of the next big advance with this course.
Our Data Science MSc will provide you with the ability to explore data insights to ensure organisations are making the most out of…
16 months Full Time / Sep start
2 years Full Time with Advanced Practice / Jan, Sep start
Develop your skills across the various areas of design and study a broad range of design elements with this foundation course.
This taught research course gives you the opportunity to carry out in-depth original research into design practice while developing…
Work on live collaborative briefs to make a positive impact on the world through art.
Our Digital Design…
Our Digital Design course is for designers who want to help connect people, tell stories, communicate information, and address social…
Whether you are a business student looking to build your knowledge and specialise in the digital domain or looking to join the marketing…
Looking to develop your knowledge and skills in digital marketing?
Enrol today with Northumbria University for postgraduate digital…
Postgraduate | Newcastle | 2 years Part Time (Distance Learning)
Create winning digital strategies with a CIM & DMA accredited Digital Marketing MSc - our 100% online, distance learning masters at…
Learn how to prepare for and respond to any type of crisis.
Northumbria’s 2-year Advanced Practice Masters will equip you for a career…
2 years Full Time (with Advanced Practice in the second year) / Sep start
Research | Newcastle | 2 years Full Time
The DBA Programme is part of a portfolio of doctoral programmes within Northumbria University.
Research | Newcastle | 3 years Part Time
Research | Newcastle
The Doctor of Sport at Northumbria bridges academia and industry with innovative research.
2 years Full Time / Oct start
3 years Part Time / Oct start
Northumbria’s Sport & Exercise Psychology doctorate merges research with real-world practice, helping you develop expertise and drive…
3 years Full Time / Oct start
5 years Part Time / Oct start
Are you an experienced design practitioner?
Are you motivated to contribute to a field of design knowledge and demonstrate impact in…
3 years Part Time / Oct, Jan start
Build the analytical skills and knowledge you’ll need to carve out a successful career in the finance sector with this course.
Our online Masters in Education is for ambitious teachers and other educators.
Develop your educational leadership skills via distance…
The Leadership and Management specialism will teach you to observe leadership and management theory, practice and research in relation…
24 months Part Time / Sep start
The National Award for Special Educational Needs Co-ordinators (SENCOs) is a legal requirement for SENCOs new to post since 2009, in…
This stream of our MA Education suite is suited to those with an interest in working with learners in an educational setting, throughout…
If you are interested in progressing with our career to more senior or specialist roles, then this is the perfect way to build on your…
Learn the hands-on…
Learn the hands-on technical, analytical and practical skills required to prepare you for a career as an engineer.
On this course you'll develop technical, analytical and practical skills required to be an electrical and electronic engineer.
Study an Electrical Power Engineering MSc degree at Northumbria University, Newcastle.
Find out more about course fees, module information…
12 months Full Time / Sep start
18 months Full Time / Sep, Jan start
The Engineering Management MSc course with Advanced Practice has been specifically designed to allow you to update, extend and deepen…
16 months Full Time / Jan, Sep start
This course opens…
4 years Full Time or 5 years with a placement (sandwich)/study abroad / Sep start
Deepen your knowledge of the use of linguistics within the English Language while also improving your research abilities.
Have a love of…
Study fantastically stimulating and distinctive modules that range from Shakespeare to contemporary fiction, and that explore how the…
This course opens windows onto a rich variety of linguistics study and gets you thinking about how language can be used in many ways.
Ready to discover the power of literature?
Understand the stories that underpin our contemporary crises on this course.
For those applying…
Combine the study of a range of literary texts with the literature, culture, history, and politics of North America on this course.
Explore the treasures of a wide range of literature whilst also training yourself as a writer on this course.
For those applying for…
Use works of literature to interpret and understand past societies and bring textual analysis to historical sources on this course.
For…
Taught by internationally recognised scholars at the cutting edge of their disciplines, this Masters will turn you from literary student…
2 years Part Time (Distance Learning) / Sep start
1 year Full Time (Distance Learning) / Sep start
This intensive research-focused Masters degree is taught by internationally recognised scholars in English Literature.
You will work…
Learn creative thinking and an entrepreneurial mindset with advanced practice on this master's programme at Northumbria University.…
This course examines topics like conservation, sustainable development and energy & waste management in different countries.
As a Postgraduate of the Eye Movement Desensitisation & Reprocessing (EMDR) Therapy programme here at Northumbria University, you will…
Establish your…
Undergraduate | Newcastle | 4 Years Full Time Including Placement
Establish your professional creative identity and Fashion career path by developing your own specialist-creative-practice that explores…
Prepare yourself for a dynamic career in the fashion industry, blending elements of fashion communication, marketing, and management.
Fashion Communication…
Fashion Communication focuses on preparing you for the dynamic and thriving communication and creative industries that support and…
Fashion Design…
This course offers you the opportunity to creatively explore fashion design, products and promotion for future markets.
Take control of your design direction, follow your passion and gain the skills and knowledge needed to launch a successful career in…
Bring stories to life and explore ways in which film influences society and culture.
This Foundation course allows you to study a broad range of arts disciplines across all aspects of film, media, and theatre.
Master the art and science behind the financial markets and develop a deep understanding of the wider business world on this course.
Gain key analytical skills in finance, focusing on sustainable decision-making, econometrics and more.
Study Financial Mathematics at Northumbria
Unleash your creativity with our BA (Hons) Fine Art program at Northumbria University.
Nurture your artistic talent with help from…
Do you have a passion for art?
Become a critical thinker and a developed maker on this course.
Gain practical and intellectual skills to become arts practitioner ready.
This course will…
This course will provide you with a scientific understanding of food science and human nutrition to prepare you for your career.
Forensic Accounting  is a growing niche and Northumbria University's Forensic Accounting masters can be studied without accounting…
The MSc Forensic Psychology course offers an in-depth exploration of the field, blending theoretical foundations with practical application…
27 months Part Time / Sep start
Develop a solid…
Develop base knowledge and skilled laboratory techniques and gain the ability to tackle complex scientific problems on this course.
Build skills with mock cases, crime scene examinations, and evidence preparation for court reports.
2 or 3 years Part Time / Sep start
Furniture and Product…
Passionate about design?
This course uses a creative, analytical and skilful approach to designing and making products and furniture.
Want to work in game development?
Play your part in bringing computer games to life.
And do it at Northumbria University.
Gain a broad introduction to geography & environmental sciences and take the first step towards your future career on this course.
Understand the economic, cultural, social and political processes that influence key contemporary issues with this course.
Understand and analyse human impact on the environment, the world around you, and all of the factors that affect this on this course.
With an emphasis on finance within an industry-oriented curriculum, learn to evaluate global business operations in an increasingly…
With an emphasis on human resources within an industry-oriented curriculum, learn to evaluate global business operations in an increasingly…
Undergraduate | London | 2 years Full Time
Global Business Management (Human Resources) Completion Award will develop your knowledge and understanding of key areas of global…
The BSc (Hons) Global Business Management (Human Resources) programme will develop your knowledge and understanding of key areas of…
Global Business Management (Logistics and Supply Chain) BSc (Hons) will develop your knowledge of supply chain and logistics processes…
The Global Business Management (Logistics and Supply Chain) Completion Award will develop your knowledge of supply chain and logistics…
With an emphasis on logistics and supply chain management, learn to evaluate global business operations in an increasingly competitive…
The BSc (Hons) Global Business Management (Top-up) programme will develop your knowledge, understanding, application and critical evaluation…
With an emphasis on marketing within an industry-oriented curriculum, learn to evaluate global business operations in an increasingly…
Global Business Management (Marketing) BSc (Hons) allows you to explore contemporary issues in marketing, including online and offline…
The Global Business Management (Marketing) Completion Award allows you to explore contemporary issues in marketing, including online…
Evaluate how businesses operate globally in an increasingly competitive environment by developing a well-rounded understanding of business…
Gain a critical, up-to-date understanding of global development, tackling issues like poverty, inequality, and climate change, with…
2 years Full Time / Sep start
Discover contemporary challenges and issues facing human resource management practitioners in the world today.
The MSc in Global Logistics, Operations and Supply Chain Management has been designed to enable you to acquire an in-depth understanding…
2 years Full Time with Advanced Practice / Sep, Jan, May start
Boost your career with a Masters that will sharpen your skills in logistics and supply chain for high earning opportunities.
Explore both traditional and emerging design practices to help prepare you for a career in the dynamic creative industries, and build…
Specialise in Branding,…
Develop your creative eye through thinking, making, crafting and realising your concepts to completion on this course.
Gain a valuable foundation of guidance and counselling skills to support you in your future “helping” profession.
Passionate about making a difference?
Explore and evaluate health and social care systems from a range of perspectives on this course.
Undergraduate | Newcastle | 2 years Part Time
This programme reflects contemporary health and social practice, and you will learn alongside other practitioners from a variety of…
The Masters degree examines psychological theories, research and method and how they relate to the study of health and disease processes.
Undergraduate | Newcastle | 1 year Full Time followed by a further 3 years full-time study
Begin your journey towards a career in Education, Health, and Social Care with this foundation course.
A flexible MSc for aspiring leaders to drive change and improve outcomes across healthcare systems.
17 months Full Time / Jan start
28 months Part Time / Sep start
Postgraduate | Newcastle | 2 years Part Time
A flexible qualification equipping registered healthcare professionals to make an impact through research.
Study the past combined with themes of American society, culture, and politics with this course.
Combine the study…
Combine the study of history and politics whilst gaining transferable employability skills on this course.
Explore the past and the 21-century and think about how history provides a deep perspective on present-day challenges on this course.
The MA History course consists of broad, thematic taught modules that focus on the middle ages through to present day.
The History MRes course incorporates taught modules that explore key subjects such as historical contexts and digital history, whilst…
This foundation year will prepare you for degree level study by exploring a range of topics from across the humanities subject areas.
Combine creativity, technology, and entrepreneurship to tackle sustainable challenges and shape the future of design.
The MSc Information Security Management aims to develop your technical competences in information assurance, incident management, information…
Are you a creative thinker?
This course offers you the opportunity to develop imaginative interiors for existing architecture.
Postgraduate | Newcastle | 1 Semester (January to June)
Aimed at Northumbria University BA (Hons) Interior Architecture graduates, this course provides graduates with an opportunity to develop…
Interested in design?…
Interested in design?
This course focuses on designing innovative interiors within new architecture and existing buildings.
Achieve a well-rounded understanding of business and the development of specialist knowledge in international banking and finance,…
International Banking and Finance BSc (Hons) will equip you with the skills and knowledge to help you join the banking and finance…
This course will provide you with the theory and practice to make management decisions in rapidly changing environments.
Join our global business Masters for a competitive edge, blend theory and practice to empower you in multinational opportunities.
Enhance your career prospects with our MSc in International Finance and Investment Masters, which allows you to develop the analytical…
Undergraduate | Newcastle | 12 months Full Time
Specifically designed for international students, the International Foundation Programme in Applied Science will help you develop a…
Specifically designed for international students, the International Foundation Programme in Art, Design and Media will help you focus…
Specifically designed for international students, the International Foundation Programme in Business and Law will help you develop…
Specifically designed for international students, this programme will help enhance your understanding of computing and improve your…
Specifically designed for international students, the International Foundation Programme in Engineering will help you develop a comprehensive…
Enhance your understanding of various social science developments in present-day society, the conditions they create, and the theories…
Delve into the world of hospitality and tourism management and discover the skills and knowledge needed for success in this industry.
Managing international projects presents unique challenges.
This Masters programme addresses the knowledge, skills and behaviours required…
This Masters programme addresses the knowledge, skills and behaviours…
Explore the political dimensions of life around the world, recognising the connections between people, locales, ideas and problems.
Increasing globalisation could be increasing the potential for peace, yet conflict and security continue to dominate international…
Build intellectual skills to become a successful manager in a knowledge-based global sports economy.
Alongside a broad understanding of business, develop specialist knowledge in international tourism, hospitality, and events within…
International Tourism, Hospitality and Events BSc (Hons) will help you develop key skills for responsible tourism management while…
2 years Full Time / Sep, Jan, May start
Undergraduate | London | 3 years Full Time or 4 years with a placement (sandwich)/study abroad
This programme is perfect for you if you wish to study one of the many Northumbria University London undergraduate business degrees,…
Forge a career in the police, rehabilitation, or forensics at a top UK department for evidence expertise.
As technology rapidly evolves, it can be a challenge for our legal systems to keep up.
Professionals working with cyber and artificial…
2 years Distance Learning / Sep start
Develop your knowledge of International Dispute Resolution and WTO law to excel in a changing global economy.
Boost your policy and governance knowledge to launch a career for the safe and sustainable use of outer space.
Interested in a career in law?
The foundation year is designed to provide a strong grounding in both subject knowledge and skills.
Foundation year followed by a further 3 or 4 years full-time study / Sep start
Gain a thorough grounding in legal principles while developing your transferable skills with this course.
Undergraduate | Newcastle | 1 year Part Time (Distance Learning)
Positive Behavioural Support (PBS) is as an evidence-based, effective, ethical, and person-centred approach to supporting people with…
Postgraduate | Newcastle | 1 year Part Time (Distance Learning)
Prepare for the SQE1 assessment to develop essential legal skills for becoming a solicitor and enhance your employability.
The programme aims to develop an innovative approach to the professional luxury brand management of luxury consumer goods (cars, cosmetics,…
The programme aims to develop an innovative approach to the professional luxury brand management of luxury consumable goods (cars,…
Interested in Marketing?
On this course you’ll gain specialist knowledge you can use to help shape the decisions behind purchases.
After any undergraduate background, explore contemporary issues in marketing and specialise in an area of your choice.
Immerse yourself in a dynamic and exciting environment to learn how media influences our daily lives and the world around us, with…
Attain the specialist knowledge, skills, and confidence needed to tackle complex communication problems and issues, particularly in…
Take the next step in your career by enrolling onto Northumbria University’s Master of Public Health, designed with development in…
A unique MPH course bridging policy and practice in palliative and end-of-life public health care.
Build your analytical…
Build your analytical and quantitative skills and develop into a problem solver and a flexible thinker with this course.
This integrated undergraduate course is underpinned by our research strengths in areas of applied mathematics and in your final year…
Gain an all-round experience and awareness of mathematics in the modern world.
Fascinated by Maths, Physics and Electrical Engineering?
Enhance your knowledge and skills with this foundation course.
The Master of Business Administration (MBA) focuses on critical thinking, strategic decision-making, and real-world problem-solving…
Gain the essential skills to develop effective solutions and products that meet the varied needs of today's and tomorrow’s society.
Undertaking the Mechanical and Civil Engineering Foundation Year may be your first step towards realising your ambitions.
The course…
Mechanical Engineering BEng (Hons) is designed to develop your understanding of engineering within social, ethical, sustainable, and…
This course will equip you with the practical skills and expertise to become a successful practising engineer.
This course will equip you with the practical skills and expertise required for a successful leadership career as a practising engineer.
Mechanical Engineering MSc will provide you with advanced knowledge and skills in key aspects of mechanical engineering.
At a time…
Explore the intricacies, history, and future of the media and communications that we create and receive every day.
This practice-based distance learning course has been designed to meet the distinct needs of hospital doctors who are required to make…
Undergraduate | Newcastle | 9 months Distance Learning, including 8 taught half days all online
The Certificate in Mental Health Law and Practice has been designed to provide an introduction to mental health law for students whose…
Microbiology is an important and wide-ranging discipline within the life sciences.
It covers a range of subjects that are relevant…
This course is designed for students from a variety of engineering backgrounds, to enhance and develop electronic engineering knowledge…
Would you like…
Undergraduate | Newcastle | 3 years Full Time (45 weeks per year)
Would you like to learn the skills required to support people throughout their childbirth experience?
This course could be for you.
Postgraduate | Newcastle | 3 years Full Time
Are you a compassionate person who wants to ensure women have a safe and life-enhancing experience during their maternity care?
The…
The MPA is designed to shape you into a strategic leader ready to navigate complex challenges in public administration.
You’ll develop…
Postgraduate | Newcastle | 3 years Part Time
Our Degree Apprenticeship MSc Advanced Clinical Practitioner provides an exciting opportunity for those working as experienced, registered,…
Postgraduate | Newcastle | 16 months Full Time
Pursue your passion for music and broaden your musical horizons in ways that lead to many career pathways with this course.
Become an expert in network engineering, digital security, and forensics on this course.
Deepen your understanding of neurodiverse individuals’ needs through critical engagement with research, policy and practice.
20 months Full Time / Jan start
The FdSc Nursing Associate Apprenticeship at Northumbria University provides a structured work-based route into healthcare, allowing…
This Nursing Associate Foundation Degree aims to develop your knowledge, skills, and attributes to become a competent, accountable…
This Nursing course will equip you to be curious, creative and collaborative in your care.
This course will enable you to make a genuine impact on the health and well-being of your clients and patients.
A two-year Masters that will allow graduates from any subject to build on their caring experience and graduate as a Registered Nurse.
The Child Nursing…
Develop a range of skills in relation to the health and well-being of babies, children, young people and their families on this course.
Make a genuine impact on the health and well-being of your patients with learning disabilities on this course.
This course will enable you to make a genuine impact on the mental health and well-being of people, and the wider community.
A two-year Masters allowing graduates from any subject to build on their caring experience and become a Registered Nurse with a Mental…
The importance of good nutrition in ensuring a healthy, disease-free human life is currently very high in the public and scientific…
Every business needs to be successful.
To ensure this, it’s vital to consider the roles of the employer and employee and the influences…
2 years Part Time (Distance Learning) / Oct start
Research | Newcastle | 43 months Part Time
The Professional Doctorate in Occupational Psychology provides a programme for practitioner occupational psychologists to further enhance…
Our Occupational Therapist Degree Apprenticeship is aimed at those employed in occupational therapy support roles.
Apprentices will…
This course is for people who want to help others to carry out everyday occupations with greater ease and independence – despite their…
Learn about the value of occupation to health and well-being and understand the underpinning theory and philosophy of the profession.
This course will suit highly motivated and enthusiastic individuals who have a specialist interest in the care of surgical patients.
Our Operating Department Practitioner (ODP) Degree Apprenticeship equips students with the skills and knowledge required to provide…
Throughout this course you will learn how to map, monitor and understand the physical world.
Interested in Physics?
Understand the world around us, from the smallest particle to the largest galaxy.
Gain a deeper understanding of what’s around us, from the smallest particle to the far reaches of the universe with this course.
Are you fascinated by the sun and our solar system?
Explore topics including dark matter and black holes on this course.
This pre-registration degree has been designed to allow graduates from related subject areas to develop the skills to become competent…
On this course you will develop understanding of how movement, function and physical activity contributes to health and well-being.
Undergraduate | Newcastle | 30 months Full Time
This apprenticeship is an academic and professional programme jointly delivered by officers from Durham Constabulary and academic staff…
This apprenticeship is an academic and professional programme jointly delivered by officers from Northumbria Police and academic staff…
Pre-sessional English is ideal if your academic qualifications meet the requirements for your chosen undergraduate or postgraduate…
6 weeks Full Time / Jul start
3 months Full Time / Jun start
The full time, distance learning MA Preventive Conservation course will immerse you in the world of preventive conservation and collections…
Achieve Qualified Teacher Status with our Primary Education BA (Hons).
Learn more at Northumbria University.
Embark on a transformative journey with our Primary PGCE Course.
Prepare for primary school teacher training and shape young minds.
This course uses…
This course uses a creative, analytical and critical approach to designing products, services and experiences.
Research | Newcastle | 5 years Part Time
Are you looking to become a pioneer who can shape policy and practice in your profession?
This exciting programme will facilitate your…
This course offers a unique insight into contemporary law enforcement, the role of the Police in society, and the challenges they face.
This programme has been tailored to provide a systematic academic and work-based means to enable eligible professionals to prepare…
Are you interested in gaining a Masters qualification that is highly valued by employers and applicable to a range of industries?
This…
Undergraduate | Newcastle | 3 years Full Time or 4 years with optional study abroad year
Interested in the study of people and their behaviour?
Psychology could be the course for you.
Undergraduate | Newcastle | 1 year Full Time followed by a further 3 year or 4 years full-time study
Interested in the workings of the human mind?
Gain a developed understanding and knowledge of the fundamental principles of Psychology.
Postgraduate | Newcastle | 12 months Full Time
Are you dedicated to the study of psychology and want to take your learning to the next level?
The MRes psychology will give you a…
Study a Masters course in Psychology at Northumbria University, a conversion course which is accredited by the British Psychological…
21 months Full Time / Jan start
This Psychology with Criminology degree provides the perfect combination of skills to interpret human behaviour.
Partnering with Hachette UK, the UK’s 2nd largest publisher, gain core skills in modern publishing.
Cultivate skills in cost estimation for building designs, resource procurement management, and effective negotiation with partners,…
Have you ever thought about buying, selling, managing, or developing property?
Our business-oriented Real Estate BSc (Hons) degree…
Real estate is a dynamic industry that requires you to utilise your decision-making, problem-solving, and negotiation skills to successfully…
Postgraduate | Newcastle | 2 years Full Time (with Advanced Practice in the second year)
Real estate is a fast-paced industry in which you’ll be expected to use your decision-making, problem-solving, and negotiation skills…
Undergraduate | Newcastle | 18 months Full Time
Our Adult Nurse Degree Apprenticeship provides an 18-Month Work-Based route to complete a BSc Hons in Nursing Science / Registered…
Our Child Nurse Degree Apprenticeship provides an 18-Month Work-Based route to complete a BSc Hons in Nursing Science / Registered…
With a looming global energy crisis our Renewable and Sustainable Energy Technologies MSc programme is the perfect preparation for…
Join the Responsible Innovation Masters to enhance your skills and drive positive change in a complex world for a better future.
The Senior Leader Higher Apprenticeship is an innovative work-based programme delivered part-time on a flexible and blended delivery…
Postgraduate | Newcastle | 30 months Part Time
The Senior People Professional Higher Apprenticeship is an innovative work-based programme delivered part-time on a flexible and blended…
Discover practical education in sleep and circadian rhythms research training, informed by a wealth of exceptional staff research and…
Prepare for degree level study in a social science subject with this course that covers areas of sociology, politics, and criminology.
This high-quality, degree apprenticeship programme has been designed for those wishing to enhance their career prospects through engaging…
Gain the skills and knowledge you need to embark on a demanding but incredibly rewarding career with our Social Work degree.
Our Master's course will allow you to develop your learning and personal attributes to secure a successful career within the field…
Develop a global understanding of society, dynamics and modern life and prepare for employment in a range of fields on this course.
Undergraduate | Newcastle | 6 years Part Time
The Solicitor Higher Apprenticeship will encourage you to develop specialist legal knowledge and gain a critical understanding of how…
This programme will empower you with innovative skills and critical thinking for careers in design and sustainability.
As a graduate of the Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (SCPHN) programme at the University of Northumbria, you will build…
As a registered nurse or midwife from the NMC standards, SCPHN health visitors (HV) are uniquely placed to reach every child in their…
As a registered nurse or midwife from the NMC standards, SCPHN school nurses (SN) are autonomous practitioners who uphold the rights…
Join our SENr accredited part-time Sport Exercise and Nutrition MSc and become equipped to help inform and guide individuals in the…
How do athletes overcome setbacks?
What is the best way for coaches to develop a great team dynamic?
How do referees and officials…
Interested in sport and exercise and the science that drives it?
Aspire to help elite athletes perform to their highest potential?…
Want to tackle health challenges such as obesity, heart disease and diabetes?
This Sport and Exercise Science course may be for you.
From the playground…
Passionate about developing a career in sports coaching?
From the playground to the world stage, coaches make a difference.
If you want to help people at all levels and ages achieve their…
The Sport Foundation Year will provide you with all the skills and knowledge you’ll need to take the next step into a Sport degree.
The Sport Foundation Year is a preparatory year of study that builds your skills, knowledge, and confidence so you feel empowered to…
Learn to appreciate…
Learn to appreciate and evaluate sport, as a global business, from an informed managerial viewpoint on this course.
Learn to appreciate and evaluate sport as a global business from an informed and inquisitive managerial viewpoint.
Our Sport Performance and Analysis MSc aims to equip you with a solid knowledge foundation, key practitioner and research skills that…
Interested in how nutritional advice can be used to optimise performance?
Aspire to help individuals who exercise for recreational…
This course will offer you a thorough and scientific understanding of sport, exercise and nutrition.
Are you highly motivated, driven and passionate about sport science and strength and conditioning?
Would you like to have a real impact…
With our degree accredited by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, you can enhance your professional profile and develop specific…
With our Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors-accredited degree, you can enhance your professional profile and develop particular…
Tackle the fashion industry's ethical and sustainability challenges with a flexible curriculum, industry partnerships, and hands-on…
Teacher Training in School PGCE is an exciting opportunity to teacher train in outstanding schools alongside highly experienced teacher…
Explore a broad range of creative art disciplines and become an arts practitioner ready.
For those applying for 2026, study an extended…
This Tourism and Events Management course provides an opportunity for you to develop essential practical, people and creative skills.
Study our Tourism and Visitor Economy MSc
The aim of the MSc Web and Mobile Development Technologies is to provide you with a firm grounding in strategic web development skills,…

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/ucas-clearing-confirmation-adjustment-and-extra:
SAVE OUR NUMBER: 0800 085 1085
Need advice on Clearing?
Call our Clearing Hotline now +44 (0)80 0085 1085
VIEW SOME OF OUR POPULAR COURSES IN CLEARING
THE CLEARING ESSENTIALS
Accommodation
Explore your accommodation options.
Tariff Points
We accept a wide range of qualifications as UCAS tariff points.
Foundation Year
Get Started with a Foundation Year.
Get £4,000 to support your studies - available to eligible Clearing applicants.
Discover More
If you have all your results, you can use our NU Clearing Form to find out if we are able to make you an offer, you can also call our hotline: 0800 085 1085.
If we can make you an offer, we’ll provide information to help you add your Clearing choice to formalise it through UCAS.
Watch our short video for step-by-step guidance on applying through Clearing and read our full breakdown of the UCAS Clearing application process .
Through UCAS Clearing, you can apply for only one course at a time.
If your first choice is unsuccessful, you can then apply for another.
While you can explore various courses and universities during Clearing, you will only have one active application.
At Northumbria, we recommend you use our NU Clearing Form before applying through UCAS as we will be able to tell you if we are able to make you an offer.
Yes!
You can book on to a campus tour to meet our staff and students as well as view our facilities across the campus, or take a virtual tour.
Yes, we offer scholarships to new UK/Home undergraduate students who have applied through Clearing for the 2025/26 academic year.
NU Support Scholarship : £4,000 over three years for eligible self-funded students applying after July 5th who receive a Clearing offer.
The scholarship aims to provide financial assistance to help students succeed in their studies, with specific eligibility criteria and application processes.
We also offer a range of scholarships for Specific Courses and International Students, use the search function on our fees and funding page to check your eligibility.
If you are looking for information for current Offer Holders, please visit our Offer Holder Information guide .
24/7 STUDY BUDDY
WHY NORTHUMBRIA
CLEARING PROCESS
FINANCIAL SUPPORT
PARENTS GUIDE
STUDENT LIFE
VISIT US ON CAMPUS
CASE STUDIES

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/ucas-clearing-confirmation-adjustment-and-extra/clearing-faqs:
If you are considering clearing, we know you may have some questions.
Please explore some of the FAQs below.
We also have dedicated pages about preparing to join us after confirming your place and information for current Offer Holders ahead of results day.
If you have all your results, you can use our NU Clearing Form to find out if we are able to make you an offer, you can also call our Clearing hotline: 0800 085 1085 .
If you were previously interviewed for a course during the main cycle and were not successful at your interview, you can reapply for the same course via Clearing , providing you meet the academic requirements.
You will be required to attend a new online interview.
Yes, you can reapply for a course you have previously declined, provided you meet the Clearing academic entry requirements.
Yes, you can reapply, and you would not have to be interviewed again if you previously passed your interview in this cycle.
You will need to meet the academic entry and any other requirements for the programme.
If you were previously unsuccessful at interview you can reapply, if you meet the academic criteria but you will need to attend an online interview again.
Yes, if our top up degree programmes have vacancies you will be able to apply via Clearing.
These courses do not accept tariff points.
You will typically need a HND/Foundation Degree for a top course and evidence of previous degree level study for advanced entry.
Whilst clearing is open at UCAS until 20 October 2025 each university is different, but it typically finishes when the University spaces are filled.
This can be different for every University but is typically in October.
From Monday, 18 August, the phone lines will be open from 8:30 am to 5 pm, Monday to Thursday, and from 8:30 am to 4:40 pm on Fridays.
Whenever you call Northumbria’s clearing hotline, you will be speaking to Northumbria staff based in Newcastle.
Our staff work year-round in a multitude of areas across the University and many of them have even studied here too.
We’ll be the best people to ask questions if you have any.
We take data privacy very seriously so when discussing your details, we need to hear from you.
If you provide consent beforehand (or have a nominated contact listed on your UCAS form), we can speak to others on your behalf, however you may be required to confirm any personal details throughout the call.
If you are unable to call, you can use our online clearing referral form to apply for a place.
Alternatively, you can provide consent in advance, via email, to allow us to discuss your clearing application with a nominated contact.
You can do this at bc.ad.clearing@northumbria.ac.uk .
We accept all Level 3 Qualifications that carry UCAS tariff points.
Find out more in our UCAS Tariff Points guide or on UCAS.com.
If the qualification does not carry tariff points , you can still apply through Clearing.
This may include, for example, an international qualification, international A Levels, or equivalent.
You can use our NU Clearing Form to provide details and upload copies of your qualifications.
If we can make an offer, we'll provide information to help you add your Clearing choice to formalise it through UCAS.
You will need to contact your school or college to make any arrangements in relation to finding out what results you have obtained; the university cannot give you these.
If you need to apply for a course via clearing and are unable to call the hotline due to being on holiday, you can also use our online clearing form to apply for a place.
This will depend on the course you are applying for and the other qualifications you hold.
We would recommend you contact us to discuss your options.
This will depend on your previous qualifications, the course you are applying for and what industry experience you have obtained.
In these circumstances, we recommend that you use our Clearing Form and upload a CV detailing the industry experience in addition to any qualifications.
If you accept a place at university through Clearing, you will need to sign into your student finance account and let them know of any changes.
You can do this even before UCAS updates.
Once you make the necessary changes, it can take 6 to 8 weeks for the Student Loan Company to process and apply them to your entitlement.
If your course starts before this, they may be able to award you the minimum Maintenance Loan amount before the course begins.
When your full entitlement is calculated, you should begin to receive the difference right away.
If your course and/or university will be different from those you entered on your Student Finance application, you should update your student finance account online at www.gov.uk/studentfinance as soon as you accept the new offer.
On your Student Finance England account, you should see a “make changes to your application”.
Alternatively, you can phone your funding provider to discuss any queries.
To apply for Student Finance, you will need to submit your details and documents.
This includes a form of identification, proof of household income, and more.
For more information: https://www.gov.uk/apply-for-student-finance Northumbria University has partnered with Blackbullion , which is a practical, financial education platform to help you: Develop your money skills and confidence Maximise your opportunities Start growing your financial wellbeing Create your free account to access the resources and ensure you select that you are applying to study at Northumbria University.
For more information: https://www.gov.uk/apply-for-student-finance
Northumbria University has partnered with Blackbullion , which is a practical, financial education platform to help you:
Create your free account to access the resources and ensure you select that you are applying to study at Northumbria University.
We have a special guide dedicated to safe financing as a student, including information about avoiding student loan scams.
Similarly, if you would like to start learning about budgeting and staying on top of your student finances, read our helpful guide .
Once Clearing begins and you have accepted your place, we recommend that you register with our Student Accessibility Team as soon as possible.
Some support mechanisms require assessments and equipment which can take time to process.
Therefore, it is important that you register with the team early and maintain contact with your funding body and Accessibility Adviser, and respond quickly to requests during the process.
If your circumstances have changed but you have already registered yourself with our student support services, you will need to let your accessibility advisor and funding body know as soon as possible.
Need Accommodation Support?
We're Here to Help.
Although our guaranteed accommodation offer has now ended, our dedicated Accommodation Team is still here to support you.
If you're looking for a place to stay or have questions about your options, please don’t hesitate to get in touch.
Email us directly at rc.accommodation.office@northumbria.ac.uk We’re here to help make your transition to university as smooth as possible.
Email us directly at rc.accommodation.office@northumbria.ac.uk
We’re here to help make your transition to university as smooth as possible.
Once the clearing hotline opens, the accommodation team will start allocating rooms and aim to get offers out to students as soon as possible.
We have lots of useful information available on the accommodation website, such as photo’s and 360 videos.
Please take a moment to explore student accommodation options on our website.
Please note that your ability to view the accommodation will depend on availability, but we will endeavour to accommodate your request where possible.
If you have any questions or would like to discuss your options, feel free to call us on 0191 227 4201.
No, your booking should still be on your account however if you get an email to say that your booking has been released, then please get in touch with us straight away on 0191 227 4201
If you've been sent an offer, you can complete your booking online via your student portal under the accommodation section.
We don’t take a deposit, however we do require a £250 advanced rent payment to secure your accommodation.This payment is deducted from your first rent installment upon moving into your accommodation.
No but if you get an email from the accommodation team to say differently, please give them a call on 0191
227 4201 straight away.
Yes, we have a dedicated section for you.
Please visit our Parent/Carer advice page to learn more.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/ucas-clearing-confirmation-adjustment-and-extra/clearing-case-studies:
Finding a place through UCAS Clearing can seem a bit scary and daunting but it's actually quite a positive and stress-free process for most students.
Northumbria University students share their UCAS Clearing stories, find out more about the clearing process below.
Renee Fraser-Shepherd
Luis Davis
Emma Swinney
Tianna Hunkins
Stepfani Rodham
Katie Riddle
Matthew Lowe
Archie Dyer
Elise Taylor

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/unlock-your-potential:
At Northumbria, it’s not about where you are from, it’s where you want to go.
Whether you're pursuing an Undergraduate or Postgraduate degree, we’ll help you reach your goals.
Browse
our content below to discover how we can support you on your journey to Northumbria,
or check out our FAQs for more information.
Want to find out more?
Register your details for info straight to your inbox and join us at one of our upcoming events or webinars.
Undergraduate : For UK students, you'll typically be applying through UCAS, while international students can also apply directly via our website.
You can find detailed information on how and when to apply in our Application Guide .
Postgraduate : Explore our guide on applying for a step-by-step breakdown of the process.
From meeting entry requirements to crafting the perfect personal statement, we’ve got everything you need!
We know that university can be a big investment, so our financial support page provides lots of information about how to fund your studies.
We also offer a range of scholarships that you may be eligible to apply for.
For information on what it is like to be a student at Northumbria, including tips and tricks on budgeting, see our Money Matters and Managing Your Money webpages.
At Northumbria, we understand that everyone’s journey to higher education is different, which is why we offer flexible admissions options.
This means that we look at more than just your grades — we consider your full story, your circumstances, and everything you’ve achieved.
We have a range of different flexible offer schemes to help people like you to get into higher education.
Our current options include: Contextual Offers: We look at both your academic performance and your personal circumstances when assessing your UCAS application.
Aspirational Offers: Encouraging those currently studying to aim for the best results you can achieve by making standard offers to students, even if you're predicted to be slightly below our standard entry requirements.
Dual Offers: These include a reserved place on an extended degree with foundation year, just in case you don't quite meet the points required for a standard degree.
Alternative programmes: We might offer you an alternative degree if you don't quite meet the standard criteria for an offer These options are open to lots of people from different backgrounds, so it’s worth checking if you will be eligible.
If you have any questions about your application, chat to us on our live chat (see the live chat icon at the bottom of this web page).
Our current options include:
These options are open to lots of people from different backgrounds, so it’s worth checking if you will be eligible.
We offer different types of support and a range of flexible
admissions options for applicants who may feel unsure about meeting the entry
requirements.
You can find out more and see what you may be eligible for on our Entry
Requirements page.
For courses that have additional entry requirements and processes, our guide on entry requirements for your chosen course/area will help you understand any non-academic requirements.
For applicants who do not meet the standard entry criteria but possess substantial, relevant work experience at an appropriate level, we may still be able to consider your application.
In this case, we recommend that you attach an up-to-date CV detailing your work experience and include contact information for your employer referee in your applications.
Should you require further assistance, please get in touch with us using the Live Chat.
Destination
Northumbria is a programme which provides valuable resources, guidance and
a strong support network to help you develop the skills and knowledge to
prepare for undergraduate study.
You will receive information and advice
supporting your transition to university, alongside the opportunity to enjoy a
range of social activities and networking events, to experience a taste of
student life.
NU Discover then provides students who have come through
Destination Northumbria, with on-going, student-led support over the first few
weeks of university
Check out our socials , and the Students Union , to see the various activities you can get involved in at Northumbria.
We understand that starting Uni on your own, and perhaps moving to a new city, can be scary so check out the ways you can get involved and meet new people during your Welcome Week .
Feeling apprehensive and nervous is completely normal when starting something new, such as university.
To learn more about the mental health and wellbeing support we offer see our counselling and mental health support webpage .
There are a range of financial support schemes which can help you with childcare.
To read more about them and find out if you’re eligible, visit our student parents webpage .
There is dedicated support available for carers, including supported entry schemes , financial help and more.
Visit our student carers webpage to find out more.
If you have accessibility needs, our friendly team is here to offer advice, guidance, and support to help you overcome any barriers and reach your full potential while studying at Northumbria.
Find out more on our accessibility support webpage.
A personal statement should focus on explaining why you're interested in the course and what makes you a suitable candidate.
Highlight your relevant skills, experiences, and achievements, and show your passion for the subject.
Keep it structured, clear, and within the character limits.
Be honest and ensure it reflects your true motivations.
For more detailed advice on writing an impactful personal statement, visit our personal statement guide and be sure to check out your course page for any
course specific advice or structure requirements.
Your reference should ideally come from a teacher or academic who knows you well and can comment on your academic abilities, achievements, and suitability for university.
You can find out more about how to add a reference and who is suitable by visiting our guide to application or UCAS’s guide to references.
For some of our courses, you may be asked to attend an interview.
You can find out if your chosen course requires an interview by checking the entry requirements section on the course webpage.
For advice on preparing for an interview visit our interview page.
As a city-centre university, we're easily accessible.
If you're considering living at home, you'll find plenty of information on how to travel to campus on our travel page .
You can also visit the Student Union page to learn more about how you can still engage in student life and enjoy the city, even if you're living at home.
Working whilst studying can be a great way to build your CV and bank account.
Whilst you are studying, we recommend that you work no more than 15 hours per week.
Check out some of students’ tips for finding a part time job and writing a cover letter and CV .
For Postgraduate students we also offer some flexible learning options, you can see more on our Flexible Learning page .

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/fees-funding/scholarships:
Funding your personal living costs and course tuition fees and expenses can be a concern for students.
The Welfare, Immigration and Funding team are here to help.
Please visit our Financial Support page for further information.
Financial help for EU students in the UK
Come to an Open Day, request a prospectus or search through our courses for both Undergraduate and Postgraduate degrees.
Experience Northumbria
Your future starts here
Course Search
Find a course for you
Request a Prospectus
Undergraduate and Postgraduate
Cost of Living
Managing your money

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/coming-to-northumbria:
At Northumbria, you'll find a wide variety of subjects and pathways designed to help you achieve your dream career.
You will learn from world-leading researchers, gain practical experience through placements, explore opportunities for studying abroad, and immerse yourself in a vibrant student life—all with dedicated support at every stage of your journey.
Find out more here, on how we can help you unlock your potential including tips on managing your money in our Cost of Living guide .
Looking to join us in September 2025?
Clearing is now OPEN .
So, if you plan to apply through
Clearing, or just want to get prepared, visit our Clearing Hub for all the information you’ll need.
When you're prepared, search our courses,
submit your application and get ready to join the thriving community at
Northumbria University.
INTERESTED IN 2026?
Visit us at our next Undergraduate Open Day:
Saturday 4th October
BOOK NOW
Discover more ways to Experience Northumbria, wherever you are.
Your Future
Your Wellbeing
Your Home
Your Community
Your City
Northumbria University, Newcastle, is proud to celebrate the achievements of the third cohort…
Two academics from Northumbria University have been awarded the prestigious Senior Clinical…
Two Northumbria students have been announced as winner at the RIBA North East Student Awards…
Northumbria University is expanding and enhancing the support it provides to students receiving…
Researchers are set to shine a different kind of light on the farming industry after receiving…
An Associate Professor at Northumbria University has been recognised by Advance HE as a National…
Universities for North East England (UNEE) have issued a response echoing the concerns of the…
Northumbria University is spearheading vital research to enhance counter-fraud strategies within…
Online Event
10am - 4pm
Northumbria University
9am
Student Skills Centre 1
3pm - 4.30pm
Lecture Theatre 003
9am - 4pm

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/guides:
Explore our short guides, designed to help you through the application process.
We’ll cover everything from starting your application with UCAS, writing your personal statement and how to create a portfolio and we even have a ' Still Time to Apply ' page that provides relevant information for those that might have missed the application dates.
If you’re an international student, check out our Guidance for International Students .
Also, discover our range of events and webinars where you'll have the chance to have your questions answered by our academics and applicant services staff.
Key Dates & Deadlines →
Personal Statement Guide →
PORTFOLIO GUIDES →
Book an Open Day, Event or Webinar →
STEP BY STEP: Application Guide →
International Application Guide →
Find Accommodation  →
Why Choose Northumbria?
→
How to get prepared - guide →
Got Questions?

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/information-for-schools-and-colleges/visit-northumbria/ucas:
You will find the dates for all of the physical exhibitions here .
For information on how to book and attend these exhibitions please visit the dedicated UCAS website exhibitions page and UK University Search web pages
You can keep up to date with Northumbria University by registering your details with us by completing our online form .
This will make sure you are the first to know about booking onto our future open days and get the latest information about life at Northumbria.
Find out more about where you can see us an why you should visit our stand
Exhibitions
Find us here
Hints & Tips
Learn more about the Application Process and find out more about life in Newcastle.
Finalising University Choices
Read our tips on choosing your options
Application Guides
Your guide for applying to an undergraduate degree
Life in Newcastle

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/foundation-year-study:
A foundation year is an extra year of study at the start of a university course.
It is a great way to build your skills, knowledge and confidence to prepare you for a degree course.
On successful completion of a foundation year, you can progress to a wide range of our undergraduate courses.
There are many reasons a student may not be ready to embark on a full undergraduate degree right away, a foundation year gives students the time and support to develop and prepare before entering the full degree path of their choice.
Hear from a previous student - we asked Fashion student Kamile Kartunaviciute to provide an insight into studying a foundation year at Northumbria.
Read her story.
YOUR HOME
YOUR CAMPUS
Where you'll learn
YOUR CAREER
Employability
YOUR WELLBEING
Student Support
EXPERIENCE NORTHUMBRIA
On-campus or at home, experience Northumbria your way.
Book onto one of our events.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/information-for-schools-and-colleges:
The Student Recruitment team provides a link between Northumbria University and schools, colleges and individuals.
We offer guidance, support and information to help prospective applicants, their teachers, parents and carers make informed choices about Higher Education and how to choose a university.
Our team of Outreach Junior Coordinators and Coordinators visit schools and colleges to deliver our Evolve and Junior Evolve programmes, as well as events such as Careers Fairs.
We also welcome groups on-campus visits and run sessions for parents/carers and teachers/advisers.
Below is our package of outreach activity which can be delivered either on or off campus.
Please click on a category to discover more information about the range of events, activities and support we can offer.
Evolve (Post-16)
Evolve offers schools and colleges the opportunity to tailor-make a programme of workshops specific to the needs of their Year 12 - 13 students.
Junior Evolve (Pre 16)
Our interactive programmes designed for younger age groups focus on raising awareness and aspiration for Higher Education.
Supported Entry Scheme
Supported entry schemes offer a range of support and opportunities to help students throughout their journey to Northumbria University.
NU ALLSTARS
Explore more about our ALLSTARS partnerships with North East schools and colleges
Partnerships
Explore our partnerships, which work with diverse collaborators to deliver high-quality outreach and provide impartial support to students and teachers.
Academic Sessions for Schools & Colleges
Explore our range of academic sessions available to schools and colleges.
Exhibitions & Open Days
Find out more about visiting Northumbria via Open Days, UCAS Fairs and more
If you have a specific query
Contact the Student Recruitment Team at studentrecruitment@northumbria.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/coming-to-northumbria/parent-page:
At Northumbria we recognise that university is a big step for parents as well as students.
From choosing a course and making an application , to student finance and living away from home - there’s a lot of information to take in and you’re bound to have some questions.
But don’t worry, we’re here to help.
We want to make things as simple as possible, so we’ve collated lots of useful information for parents, carers and guardians all in one place.
Explore our basic guides and videos below and help your child make informed choices about their future and check out our Clearing Hub for relevant information for those considering Clearing.
For international parents looking to support their child's university journey, check out our comprehensive International Parents Guide .
It's packed with valuable resources to assist you through every step of the application process, ensuring a smooth transition for your child's education abroad.
PARENTS' GUIDE.
Sign up to view our helpful guide for parents and guardians.
NORTHUMBRIA NEWSPAPER.
Read the latest news and features covering everything from research projects and business partnerships to student and staff awards.
LIVE BITESIZE EVENTS.
Choosing a university is a big decision.
There is so much to think about, and so much you will want to know.
ADMISSIONS ADVICE.
Keep up to date with all of our applicant information.
HOW TO APPLY.
MADE SIMPLE.
IMPORTANT DATES AND DEADLINES
2025 ENTRY
APPLY VIA UCAS
YOUR CHILD'S LEARNING EXPERIENCE.
WELCOME PACK
A guide for new students.
WHERE TO LIVE AT UNI.
LIFE IN NEWCASTLE
VIEW OUR ACCOMMODATION
STUDENT FINANCE.
YOUR FAQS
AVAILABLE FINANCIAL GUIDANCE
COST OF LIVING
FEELING SUPPORTED AT UNI.
STUDENT LIFE AND WELLBEING
YOUR CHILD'S FUTURE.
CAREERS & EMPLOYABILITY
OPPORTUNITIES TO STUDY ABROAD

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/postgraduate-study:
Whether you want to advance your career by building upon your undergraduate degree or looking to make a fresh start and change direction , we offer an extensive range of postgraduate study options.
Additionally, we have new courses for you to consider.
We offer a range of courses starting in September and January so you can find the perfect course for you.
A Masters degree is a great way to unlock your potential and open up a variety of career opportunities , that require advanced qualifications.
Take the next step and apply for Masters programme today!
Find advice you may need on the application process .
For further information, join us at one of our open days or webinars , or sign up for updates to your inbox.
REGISTER YOUR INTEREST
Open Days, Events & Webinars
Book Now
The Postgraduate Loan
Make a Masters work for you.
Explore the various ways to fund your Masters, including the government postgraduate loan.
Fees & Funding
From tuition fees to funding and scholarships, explore your options and finance your Masters.
NHS Learning Support Fund
Training grant of £5,000 per academic year, for eligible students.
Students studying an Extended Degree will only be eligible for funding in the last three years of their course.
Application Guide
Tips on how to apply
Prospectus
Register Now
Postgraduate Research
Change Direction
Discover your options
New for 2025
Discover our new courses
Take a look at our popular Postgraduate Degrees
Real Estate MSc
Conservation of Fine Art MA
Psychology MSc
Law (Criminal Justice) LLM

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/postgraduate-study/application-guide:
Take a look at the useful articles below to discover more about what to expect from the application process, what you can do to prepare and what happens next.
Check out our guide on applying to university for comprehensive insights into each stage.
From understanding entry requirements to perfecting your personal statement, we’ve got you covered!
Some of our courses may require a portfolio as part of the application process.
Discover more about what is required for these here .
APPLICANT PORTAL
ADMISSIONS INFO
WHAT YOU NEED TO APPLY
WHAT HAPPENS AFTER YOU APPLY?
FUNDING YOUR MASTERS
TOP TIPS WHEN APPLYING FOR A MASTERS
WHICH JOBS REQUIRE A MASTERS?
STUDENT LIFE IN NEWCASTLE

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/postgraduate-research-degrees:
Our vibrant community of over 900 postgraduate researchers tackle big research questions, make important discoveries and help society face new world challenges.
When you join us we will support you by providing tutoring by leading academics, excellent facilities and by creating successful multi-disciplinary partnerships to help you to deliver impactful world-class research.
This approach, coupled with our impressive track-record of collaborating with like-minded global partners, has seen Northumbria University recognised as the biggest rise in research power of any UK university (REF 2021).
In fact, our share of world-leading and internationally excellent research has tripled, and means that we are in a stronger position than ever to respond to today's challenges.
Why not help us lead the debate?
Current PGR students, click here for our Intranet pages.
Doctoral Training Partnerships and Centres
Our Research
Academic Profiles
Research Development Fund
Changing Challenging World
Student Profiles
CITIZEN-CENTRED ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
Find Out More About Our Fully Funded Research and Learning Journey
Finance

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/our-courses/flexible-learning:
Driven by the latest technology and supported by outstanding tutors, you will become part of our diverse, global community, and benefit from the unique perspective of your peers through collaborative learning.
Our tutors are experts in their field with a wide range of experience and a commitment to improvement through research.
Many of our degrees - including those delivered via distance learning - are professionally accredited, giving you peace of mind that your learning is at the forefront of your chosen industry.
Degree Apprenticeships
Discover more about our Degree Apprenticeship Programmes.
Distance Learning
Discover more about Distance Learning and view our full range of courses.
Part Time Study
Everything you need to know about studying Part Time at Northumbria.
Read more about our fees, discounts and funding options.
Contact Us
Questions about Distance Learning or Part Time Study?
Drop us a line.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/postgraduate-study/change-direction:
WANT TO CHANGE DIRECTION WITH YOUR POSTGRADUATE STUDIES?
You probably chose your undergraduate degree when you were 17 years old.
Have you changed since then?
Have your career aspirations changed too?
The hard work you put into your first degree has helped you develop a vast range of valuable skills.
By combining them with a Masters in a completely new subject, you can open the door to a career that suits who you are today.
At the same time a postgraduate degree will also boost your earning potential - according to the Department for Education’s Graduate Labour Market Statistics 2022, postgraduates earn on average £6,500 a year more than their undergraduate counterparts.
Everything you need to know
Open Days & Events
Five Tips
To help you find a new direction
Real Estate MSc Surveying (Building Surveying) MSc Surveying (Quantity Surveying) MSc Surveying (Real Estate) MSc
Surveying (Building Surveying) MSc
Surveying (Quantity Surveying) MSc
Surveying (Real Estate) MSc
Creative and Cultural Industries Management MA Responsible Innovation MA
Creative and Cultural Industries Management MA
Responsible Innovation MA
Accounting and Finance MSc Business Analytics MSc Business and Management MSc Digital Marketing MSc Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management MSc Finance MSc Global Human Resource Management MSc Global Logistics, Operations and Supply Chain Management MSc International Business Management MSc International Hospitality and Tourism Management MSc Marketing MS c
Accounting and Finance MSc
Business Analytics MSc
Business and Management MSc
Digital Marketing MSc
Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management MSc
Finance MSc
Global Human Resource Management MSc
Global Logistics, Operations and Supply Chain Management MSc
International Business Management MSc
International Hospitality and Tourism Management MSc
Marketing MS c
Artificial Intelligence MSc Computer Science MSc
Artificial Intelligence MSc
Computer Science MSc
Disaster Management and Sustainable Development MSc International Development MSc
International Development MSc
Applied Linguistics for TESOL MA Creative Writing MA Publishing MA
Applied Linguistics for TESOL MA
Creative Writing MA
Publishing MA
Construction Project Management with BIM MSc Project Management MSc
Construction Project Management with BIM MSc
Project Management MSc
Midwifery MSc Nursing Science Registered Nurse (Adult) MSc Nursing Science Registered Nurse (Child) MSc Nursing Science Registered Nurse (Learning Disability) MSc Nursing Science Registered Nurse (Mental Health) MSc
Midwifery MSc
Nursing Science Registered Nurse (Adult) MSc
Nursing Science Registered Nurse (Child) MSc
Nursing Science Registered Nurse (Learning Disability) MSc
Nursing Science Registered Nurse (Mental Health) MSc
Occupational and Organisational Psychology MSc Psychology MSc Sleep and Chronobiology MRes
Occupational and Organisational Psychology MSc
Sleep and Chronobiology MRes
International Relations, Conflict and Security MA
Childhood and Early Years Studies MA Education (Learning and Leadership) MA Education (Leadership and Management) MA Education (SEND Inclusion) MA Education (Teaching and Learning) MA Education MA Primary Education PGCE Teacher Training in School PGCE
Childhood and Early Years Studies MA
Education (Learning and Leadership) MA
Education (Leadership and Management) MA
Education (SEND Inclusion) MA
Education (Teaching and Learning) MA
Education MA
Primary Education PGCE
Teacher Training in School PGCE

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/postgraduate-study/pg-info-new/thinking-about-a-masters:
Or try our Advanced search
View our Continuing Professional Development (CPD) / Short Courses

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/student-life/students-union:
Independent of the University and led by the SABB Team,
we’re here to make sure that your time at Northumbria is the best it can be.
The SABBTeam consists of six students, elected by you to run your Students' Union.
Our
mission is ‘To have a positive impact on the lives of all our students’.
You can find us at City Campus, Coach Lane, Amsterdam
and London Campus, working hard to make sure you’ve got everything you need,
whether that’s an affordable drink at one of our award-winning bars, joining
one of 100+ societies, or some advice about your course from our free advice
service.
University is a great time to try new things, meet new people and have some FUN; at NSU we combine all of these things with opportunities to make your CV outstanding.
From Volunteering with one of many projects, joining one of our 100+ Societies , or even setting up your own.
There is guaranteed to be something for you.
Life at uni can be a bit of a whirlwind and sometimes you may find your studies difficult or feel that complications in your personal life impact your wellbeing.
Whatever the challenge you face – on or off campus – NSU's highly trained friendly staff are here to support you.
We offer free wellbeing support , as well as confidential academic and housing advice.
We believe in representing the views of every student to the University and the local community.
We support a team of reps who look out for your programme, department and even faculty.
We campaign to make positive change on your behalf.
Have an issue affecting any part of your student life at Northumbria?
Speak up and we’ll make sure your voice is heard.
You can find out more about academic representation here .
Here at NSU, we know how important it is
to blow off steam after a busy day at uni, so we’re here to make sure that you
can play as hard as you work.
Our award-winning bars and venues have
everything you need to get that much deserved R&R -from everyday good value
on food and drinks to quality entertainment, from live music to big screen
sports in Habita.
Habita Say hello to Habita , your new hangout on campus where we serve up big screen sport, weekly karaoke and quiz nights.
We also have a brand new pool table, pinball machines and table football too.
You’ll find delicious food, great value drinks and loads of non alcoholic options at reduced student-friendly prices, all available to eat in or take- away.
With countless deals and events throughout the week, it’ll quickly become your favourite place on campus.
Take advantage of our Scan to Save feature by simply scanning your Northumbria Uni ID card at the till, and the discount is applied!
So make sure you remember to bring your ID card along with you.
The Greenhouse Before lectures, grab a bite to eat and get your caffeine fix (or decaf!) to go at Greenhouse Coffee .
Dead laptop?
Stag charged and smash through that after lunch slump.
Grind out the group project or clock in those study hours.
We’ve got all the snacks to keep you going to the end of the day.
For more of a common room vibe, Escape on floor 1 provides comfy seating, IT facilities and Microwaves.
Plus, giant bean bags, which are perfect for chilling or a nap in between lectures!
The Studio In The Studio you can create your latest Podcast using our high-quality industry-level equipment.
Whether you and your besties want to start the next True Crime podcast or you’re brave enough to tackle the mic alone, our vibrant Podcasting room is the space for you to let it all out!
It’s FREE for all Northumbria students.
Habita
Say hello to Habita , your new hangout on campus where we serve up big screen sport, weekly karaoke and quiz nights.
The Greenhouse
Before lectures, grab a bite to eat and get your caffeine fix (or decaf!) to go at Greenhouse Coffee .
The Studio
In The Studio you can create your latest Podcast using our high-quality industry-level equipment.
To
find out more about your Students’ Union, visit www.mynsu.co.uk .
Open Days - BOOK NOW
Open Days are a great way for you to get a feel of the University, the city of Newcastle upon Tyne and the course(s) you are interested in.
London Campus
Northumbria's London Campus offers students our academic quality and outstanding experience in the UK's capital city.
Northumbria Open Days
Explore NU World
Find out what life here is all about.
From studying to socialising, term time to downtime, we’ve got it covered.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/thehub:
The Hub is brought to you by a team of current students who will be sharing regular updates on what it’s like to study at Northumbria.
From undergraduate students just starting their first year, to postgraduate students who have returned to university to change their career direction, our digital content creators come from all over the world.
Explore our student-led content where they show you life in and around Newcastle, talk about their student experience, give you tips on how to get the best out of your student life and much more!

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/accommodation:
Live on campus and get the ultimate student experience.
From modern en-suite options to traditional style accommodation - find the perfect new home for you and make friendships for life.
Virtual Tours
Our Guarantee
Stephenson
From £103.12 per week
Glenamara
From £122.43 per week
Trinity Square
From £164.01 per week
Winn
From £166.04 per week
New Bridge
From £171.71 per week
Camden Court
From £172.71 per week
Portland Green
From £179.00 per week
Stepney Yard
From £183.00 per week
The Bridge
From £185.00 per week
Byron Central
From £160.00 per week
Quay Point
Accommodation Map
Conferencing Accommodation
Catering Offers
Additional Information

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/student-life/northumbria-sport:
We are the sport and physical activity arm of Northumbria
University.
We are committed to student wellbeing and ensuring students can
access a wide variety of sport and physical activities within our two
impressive sport facilities and specialist external facilities for sports such
as equestrian and golf.
Sport Central based at City Campus, boasts state-of-the-art
gym, studio, six lane 25m swimming pool, sauna, steam room, four sports halls
and climbing wall.
Coach Lane Sports Ground based at Coach Lane Campus has a
sports hall, four grass football pitches as well as three multipurpose
artificial pitches, which accommodate a range of sports such as American
Football, Hockey, Lacrosse, Football, Rugby Union, and Rugby League.
We have a range of opportunities to take part in sport, whether you want to meet new people, try a new sport, or compete in a sport you have always loved.
Our 37 Student Sport Clubs offer students the opportunity to take part at a range of levels of sport participation, from non-competitive sport to competitive BUCS teams.
Find out more
Sport Central boasts a state-of-the-art MATRIX Fitness Gym.
A free-weights area that hosts six lifting platforms, fully equipped strength and cardiovascular machines, as a zone for all your functional training needs
Northumbria Sport Volunteering and Internships programme is a nationally Award-Winning Programme that offers you fantastic opportunities to work with industry professionals and gain valuable experience and employability skills.
We offer opportunities working within our Northumbria Sport programmes, National Governing Bodies, external organisations, in the local community, and even internationally through the Volunteer Zambia Project!
Northumbria Sport supports around 200 student athletes
each year across a range of sports through our tailored sports scholarship
programme.
Northumbria Sport offer scholarships to support athletes on their
dual career journey, enabling them to develop their sporting ability
whilst gaining a quality degree!
Find out more about our Sport Scholarships
www.northumbriasport.com

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/support-for-students:
Here at Northumbria, we often talk about your time at University as a journey – one in which you will learn and grow, discover new places, meet new people and develop personally.
We want you to know that as well as the academic support you’ll receive from your tutors, there are teams of people at Northumbria who are here to help you reach the point of graduation feeling nurtured, fulfilled and supported at every step of the way, wherever you are studying.
Even before you begin that journey, we will be working with you to make sure that you have everything you need in place when you get here.
We know that everyone is unique, that no two journeys are the same and we welcome and celebrate that diversity here at Northumbria.
Our University and the services within it, are accessible and inclusive of all.
Wherever you come from and whichever way your university journey takes you, we are here to guide you, signpost you and to support you whenever you need us.
We are proud to tell you that all of our student services below hold the Customer Service Excellence award, accredited by the Home Office, click on any one to discover more about what we can offer.
Student Life and Wellbeing
Accessibility and Inclusion, Counselling and Mental Health, Wellbeing, Spiritual Care and International Student Support.
Graduate Futures
Careers and employabilty guidance and advice on placements, enterprise and studying abroad.
Student Engagement
Helping you to keep on track
University Library
Supporting your academic success with expert help and high quality resources
Ask4Help
Our frontline service for student-facing enquiries

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/visit-northumbria:
At Northumbria, we make it easy for you to explore your options, your way.
Visit our campus during an Open Day to get a feel for university life, or join a guided tour for an insider’s perspective from a current student.
If you’re unable to visit in person, our virtual events and online campus tours offer a chance to explore everything we have to offer from wherever you are.
For our international students, we’re coming to you!
We host overseas events and visits to help you connect with us no matter where you are in the world.
All of this takes place in Newcastle – a city ranked in the Top 10 ‘Best City for Students in the UK 2024’ by *Student Crowd.
Whether in person or online, this is your chance to discover what makes Northumbria special and why it’s the perfect place for your future.
You might also like
Join us for Open Days, guided tours, and exclusive events to
explore our facilities, meet our community, and get a real feel for student
life.
On Campus Open Days
Experience it all, up close and in person!
Can’t make an Open Day?
Join one of our friendly Student Representatives for a guided tour of our campus!
Travelling Here
Click here for easy-to-follow directions to our campus and make your journey hassle-free.
See you soon!
Next Event
The dates of our next on campus open days are the 4th and 25th October 2025.
Schools & Colleges
Guidance, support and information to help students, teachers, parents and carers make informed choices about Higher Education and how to choose a university.
Why study in Newcastle?
STUDENT BLOG
What's on in Newcastle
ARTICLE
Studying in the UK as an International Student.
Join our virtual events, and virtual tours to explore our facilities, meet staff and students, and get all your questions answered.
Northumbria, Live and Online!
Join our virtual events for an inside look at Northumbria – wherever you are.
Facility Tours
Take a 360° virtual tour of our cutting-edge study areas and get a real feel for life at Northumbria - no travel required!
Step Inside Your Future Home – Virtually
Explore Northumbria’s student accommodation from anywhere with our virtual tours.
South East Asia webinar
For students from across South East Asia.
Various dates available.
India global office webinar
For students from India, Nepal, and Bangladesh.
West Africa information webinar
For students from Nigeria and Ghana.
Join our international events to connect with our team, learn about our courses, and discover what makes our university a top choice for global students.
International Events
Upcoming events, webinars, and opportunities for international students to engage with Northumbria.
Our Global Offices
Meet our global reps for free student advice for international students.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/visit-northumbria/university-open-days:
Step onto campus, meet staff and students, experience the buzz — your journey starts here!
4th October - Undergraduate & Postgraduate Open Day | Book Now
25th October- Undergraduate Open Day | Book Now
22nd November - Undergraduate & Postgraduate Open Day | Book Now
Can't make our Open Day?
Book a campus tour or check out on-demand content below to discover Northumbria wherever you are.
An open day gives you the chance to experience Northumbria, visit our campus and get any questions you have answered before making your final decision to apply to study with us.
Open days are a great opportunity to speak to academics from your course of interest and chat to current students as well as allowing you to experience the campus facilities and social spaces.
Get a taste of campus life as you join us at our City-Centre and Coach Lane campuses.
You’ll have opportunity to get your questions answered as you speak to our academics, explore our facilities on campus tours and visit the Sports Central and Students’ Union.
See below for an example of what a programme can look like.
Please note the below programme is a sample, any and all details are subject to change.
Please refer to your on the day programme for important information such as timings and locations.
Upon arrival at the event, you will receive an event programme which outlines the location and timings of the different sessions available.
Open days give you the opportunity to explore: Central Exhibition - Find out more about our fantastic facilities, accommodation and support services.
Subject Sessions - Learn more about what you could be studying as well as the learning facilities.
Campus Tours - As well as tours of the Library, Sport Central and the Students’ Union.
Accommodation - A number of our accommodation buildings will be open for you to view.
General Sessions - Find out more about studying at Northumbria, managing your finances, personal statements and more.
Meet current students and academics.
Open days give you the opportunity to explore:
Undergraduate Booking onto a Northumbria University Open Day is as simple as filling out a booking form and selecting the day or event you want to attend (whether in-person or virtual).
Postgraduate You can booking onto any of our Postgraduate events by simply filling out our booking form and selecting the event that you would like to attend.
We have a range of on-campus and virtual events to choose from to suit your needs.
Undergraduate
Booking onto a Northumbria University Open Day is as simple as filling out a booking form and selecting the day or event you want to attend (whether in-person or virtual).
Postgraduate
You can booking onto any of our Postgraduate events by simply filling out our booking form and selecting the event that you would like to attend.
Most of the on-campus Open Days held on a weekend run from 9am to 3pm.
We do also host some midweek twilight events which often run from 12pm - 6pm.
However, you are welcome to attend the events at a time best suited to you and for as long as you choose.
Most Virtual Events run for approximately an hour.
Please be sure to check times and dates on our website as these may vary depending on the event.
Northumbria University’s Open Days offer a lot to see and do.
With all the options available, it’s possible to miss out on important information if you get caught up in everything that’s going on.
Here are our tips for a comprehensive Open Day checklist.
Check Which Campus
    to Attend: We have two
    campuses in Newcastle – City
    Campus and Coach Lane Campus.
Please make sure you check which
    Campus the subjects that you are
    interested in are held at.
There is lots on offer at both
    campuses so you won’t miss out.
There is also a free shuttle bus between City Campus and Coach
    Lane Campus running on the day if
    you would like to see both campuses.
Do Your Research: Figure out what you want to find out on the open day and which tours, talks or activities you want to attend.
It’s also always best to plan any travel with plenty of notice, both to save money, and to ensure you know exactly where you’re going.
Subject Talks and Facility Tours: The best way to find out if a course is right for you is to attend a subject talk and tour the facilities.
This will give you an opportunity to ask lots of questions about your chosen subject and what your learning experience will be like day to day.
Take a virtual tour beforehand to see what’s on offer.
Campus Tours : Having a university rep show you around the campus is a great way to not only get your bearings, but also to ask current students questions about what it’s really like to live and learn at Northumbria University.
Financial Support and Wellbeing: Aside from the more course-specific presentations there will also be ‘general information’ talks available covering everything from accommodation to finance and support services.
Make sure to plan in time for these as they’ll help you gain a wider understanding of what the university can offer you beyond the educational benefits.
Visit our student support page for more information.
Student Residences and Accommodation: Northumbria University offers tours of our accommodation options as part of our Open Days and would highly recommend that add one to your itinerary.
Members of the accommodation team will also be on-hand in the Main Exhibition to tell you more about our options but it’s always best to see first-hand.
Clubs and Societies: An Open Day is a great opportunity to learn what extra-curricular activities you’d like to get involved with.
Whether you’re into sports, gaming or politics there’s a society (or societies) for you.
Our SU societies page showcases all the available options.
Explore the Area: If you’ll be living away from home, it’s crucial that you spend some time taking in the city and surrounding areas.
While you’ll be spending plenty of time on campus, a lot of your university experience will be spent enjoying everything Newcastle has to offer.
As our city campus is based in the heart of Newcastle Upon Tyne, there are lots of transport options available to you when visiting us at an open day.
City Campus – on Friday and Saturday you have
access to the main University car
park free of charge at City Campus
East Car Park - postcode NE1 2SU /
what3words: builds.beyond.either.
On Saturday only, you also have a number of spaces
available in our smaller car parks
free of charge:
Camden Street – NE2 1XE /
what3words: double.brands.jolly
Day Street – NE1 8SU / what3words:
ally.fields.leave
Sport Central – NE1 8QD /
what3words: mass.visits.people Coach Lane Campus – on Friday and Saturday you have access to the car park at Coach
Lane Campus East free of charge.
The
nearest post code is NE7 7TR (this will
guide you to a nearby housing estate.
so as you get close please follow the
signs to the University) / what3words:
fine.truly.healers Alternative City Centre Parking at Pay
& Display car parks include: • Civic Centre - NE2 1DF • College Street - NE1 8JG • John Dobson Street - NE1 8HL • Manors - NE1 2LA • MEA House - NE1 8SX
Alternative Coach Lane Parking is at
Four Lane Ends Metro, postcode NE7
7TG, where there is a large car park
that is approx.
10-minutes walk to
the Campus.
On Saturday only, you also have a number of spaces
available in our smaller car parks
free of charge:
Camden Street – NE2 1XE /
what3words: double.brands.jolly
Day Street – NE1 8SU / what3words:
ally.fields.leave
Sport Central – NE1 8QD /
what3words: mass.visits.people
Coach Lane Campus – on Friday and Saturday you have access to the car park at Coach
Lane Campus East free of charge.
so as you get close please follow the
signs to the University) / what3words:
fine.truly.healers
Alternative City Centre Parking at Pay
& Display car parks include:
• Civic Centre - NE2 1DF
• College Street - NE1 8JG
• John Dobson Street - NE1 8HL
• Manors - NE1 2LA
• MEA House - NE1 8SX
Alternative Coach Lane Parking is at
Four Lane Ends Metro, postcode NE7
7TG, where there is a large car park
that is approx.
We know how big the decision on where to attend university is and want everyone to feel that they have all the facts up front, you are welcome to bring along those who are important to help you make your decision.
For our prospective Undergraduate students, this starts from providing you with all the parent or guardian information you need on our Undergraduate Open Days.
Our team is on-hand to offer answers to questions from both prospective students as well as parents or guardians that accompany them on the day.
Experience the vibe of our campus, learning spaces and city from the comfort of your own home.
VIRTUAL TOURS
OUR CITY

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/visit-northumbria/virtual-tours:
Experience Northumbria University from the comfort of your own home.
Our immersive virtual tours and interactive 360 images allow you to explore our vibrant campus and dynamic learning spaces, all from anywhere in the world.
APPLIED SCIENCES
ARCHITECTURE & BUILT ENVIRONMENT
ARTS
BUSINESS
COMPUTING
DESIGN
ENGINEERING
GEOGRAPHY
HUMANITIES
MATHS
LAW
NURSING
PSYCHOLOGY
SOCIAL SCIENCES
SOCIAL WORK
SPORT

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/visit-northumbria/campus-tours:
Join one of our friendly Student Representatives for a
guided tour of our campus!
Lasting approximately one hour, these tours offer a
great opportunity to experience our university firsthand - exploring the
campus, key facilities, and student life.
While we’re unable to arrange meetings with academic staff
or visits to Accommodation, we’ll take you through essential spots like the
library, the Students’ Union, and Sport Central.
Tours are available for City Campus or Coach Lane Campus for
both Undergraduate and Postgraduate students.
They run Monday to Friday , between 10 AM – 3 PM (excluding
Bank Holidays).
We require at least one week’s notice to arrange your tour,
and availability is limited.
Once your tour is scheduled, we’ll send you a confirmation
email with all the details you’ll need.
We can’t wait to welcome you to campus!
The City Campus is in the heart of Newcastle upon Tyne,
just a couple of roads from the main shopping areas and cultural centres.
The
campus marries a unique combination of innovative contemporary buildings with
historical sites that have been listed because of their heritage and grandeur.
The University has invested more than £250 million in its estate over the last
decade and our campus is continuously evolving to create an
environment where you can shape your future.
Some of the City Campus Tour highlights include:
Located just 3 miles outside of Newcastle, Coach Lane
Campus is an extensive site with its own Sports Centre, Students’ Union,
Library and IT suites.
The Coach Lane Campus highlights include:

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/visit-northumbria/life-in-newcastle:
Newcastle is a city that delivers - big on energy, creativity, and endless opportunities for students.
Ranked in the Top 10 'Best City for Students in the UK 2024' by Student Crowd, it's a place where student life and city life go hand in hand.
Whether you're heading out to cool bars or restaurants, exploring iconic landmarks, or finding your new favourite coffee spot, there's never a dull moment.
Just a short trip away, you’ll find Tynemouth - recently named the 'coolest seaside town' by Time magazine, where you can soak up beach vibes and surf the waves.
And right on your doorstep, Northumberland's countryside offers hiking trails and breathtaking landscapes perfect for weekend adventures.
WHAT'S ON
Your social calendar for this month.
EXPERIENCE NU
Open days | Virtual Events | On Demand

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/i-am-nu/managing-your-money:
With its vibrant culture, thriving student community, and budget-friendly lifestyle, Newcastle offers a unique blend of quality education and great value for money.
Whether you're moving here for the first time or returning for another academic year, understanding the cost of living is key to making the most of your university experience.
Explore all you need to know about the cost of living in Newcastle on this page.
From the average monthly student living costs and practical tips on managing your money , to the wide range of financial support on offer, we're here to help you plan confidently.
You'll also find useful links to helpful resources and tools to support your financial well-being throughout your time with us - we've got you covered.
From housing and groceries to social life and travel, we’ve broken down the typical living costs for a Northumbria student to help you budget effectively
Average Monthly Student Living Costs
YOUR FULL BREAKDOWN AND MORE
Managing your finances is an important life skill.
With the cost of living on the rise, this can be a daunting prospect, but it shouldn’t hold you back from getting the most out of your time at university.
Here are some helpful tips to help you manage your money as a student studying with us.
Budgeting Tips and Resources
Student Budgeting Planner
GUIDE
How to Save Money
Newcastle on a Budget
Cost of Living Calculator
It is important that our students feel supported whilst studying with us, so as well as the academic support you’ll receive, we also offer lots of financial support too.
Financial Support
WELFARE, IMMIGRATION & FUNDING TEAM
NORTHUMBRIA STUDENTS' UNION
Tuition Fees, Funding & Scholarships
Undergraduate Student Loan
FUNDING YOUR STUDIES
Postgraduate Government Loan
Choosing a Bank Account
Tips on Finding a Part-time Job
Here are some useful links to help you navigate the cost of living - student discounts, tips and more
A-Z Student Discounts
Save the Student: Saving Money
The Ultimate Student Shopping List
Budgeting & Money Advice
STUDENT PORTAL

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/i-am-nu/student-living-costs:
Living costs refer
to almost all your spending outside of your course tuition fees and include
things like student accommodation or rent, utility bills, socialising and of
course your groceries and eating out.
Here is a breakdown of the typical living
costs for a Northumbria student in Newcastle ( savethestudent.org ).
These costs should
be used as a guide only.
Click the image to view an accessible version
Explore our
extra guidance and top tips for managing your finances while studying with us.
If you prefer
to live alone with your own bathroom and kitchen, a studio will cost more per
week.
However, if you don’t mind sharing a kitchen with others, you can save
money by opting for shared accommodation.
Keep this in mind when making your
decision.
Visit our Accommodation page to explore our available student accommodation options and
their associated costs.
If you’re a
student who doesn’t like to cook or simply don’t want to cook every day, we recommend
downloading the Uni Food Hub app on your smartphone.
This app can be used to
pay for meals across campus.
Family and friends can also top up your Uni Food
Hub account and pre-pay for your meals.
Just ensure they have your login
details before you leave for university.
We are also giving our students who book their accommodation for September 2025
a £100
catering credit to spend on campus* .
This is perfect for grabbing coffee
with your new course mates or going for a meal with flatmates.
If you want to
join the movement against food waste, download the Too Good To Go app.
This app
allows you to rescue delicious food at a discounted price, so you can eat well
with a clear conscience at all campus catering outlets.
Alternatively,
there are plenty of supermarkets near campus where you can buy groceries to
prepare your favourite meals.
We also believe
no student should go hungry.
That’s why Northumbria students in Newcastle can
access our food bank service for short-term support.
Visit our Northumbria Students’ Union Cost of Living page for more information.
*Terms and
Conditions apply
Aside from
typical living expenses, international students should consider the following
additional costs when studying in the UK: UK Student
Visa A one-time fee that allows you to live and study in the UK for the
duration of your course.
For more information on the UK Student Visa and its
costs, visit: UK Student Visa UKVI
Financial Requirement You’ll need to prove you have sufficient funds to
support yourself—unless you have already lived in the UK with a valid visa for
at least 12 months before your application.
The required amount varies
depending on your study location in the UK.
For details, visit: UKVI Financial Requirement Immigration
Health Surcharge (IHS) The exact amount you need to pay depends on the
length of your UK Student Visa.
To calculate your expected fee, visit: Immigration Health Surcharge Graduate
Route Visa There are several visa options for international students who
wish to stay in the UK and work after graduation.
A popular choice is the
Graduate Visa, which allows graduates to stay in the UK for two years after
successfully completing their course.
You must apply for this visa while living
in the UK.
For more information on costs and requirements, visit: Graduate Visa
Supermarket Money Saving Tips
Weekly Shop on a Budget
Best Loyalty Cards
Fashion Discounts
Save Money on Makeup
Styling on a Budget
Eating out on a budget
Food & Drink Discounts
Fun Activities under £20
Travel Discounts

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/support-for-students/financial-support:
Funding
your personal living costs and course tuition fees and expenses can be a
concern for students.
The Welfare, Immigration and Funding team are here to
help.
Working out if you can afford to join a course and if you are
looking for advice on a student finance issue, or if you have a financial
problem during the course.
We offer impartial, confidential and professional
advice, guidance and information on a wide range of issues, for free.
You can submit an enquiry to our team by completing our contact form .
Tel: 0191 227 4127
Current students: Please submit an enquiry via the Help & Support section of your Student Portal .
Funding for UK Students
Funding for EU Students
Funding for International Students
Scholarships

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/admissions:
Choose a Course
How do my qualifications compare?
English Language Requirements
Entry Requirement Information
Cost of Living Information
Making an application- Common Queries
International Applicant Information
UCAS Clearing
Further Admissions Guidance and Requirements
Application Deadlines and Key Dates
Fees and Finance
After You Apply- Common Queries
Interview and Portfolio
Immigration
Offer Holder Information
UCAS
Meet and Greet
Preparing to join us
Common queries
Policies, Terms and Conditions
Office For Students Transparency Return
Useful Links

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/applicant-terms-and-conditions-and-policies:
This page provides you with a range of policies and procedures to help you throughout your time as an applicant at Northumbria University.
For student terms, conditions and conduct expectations please click here .
2025-26 NU Newcastle Campus International Terms and Conditions 2025-26 International Next Steps and Actions - Newcastle Campus London Terms and Conditions
2025-26 NU Newcastle Campus International Terms and Conditions
2025-26 International Next Steps and Actions - Newcastle Campus
London Terms and Conditions
2024-5 EU and International Next Steps and Actions 2024-5 Newcastle Campus EU and International Terms and Conditions UK/EU Terms and Conditions Distance Learning Terms and Conditions London Terms and Conditions Degree Apprenticeships Terms and Conditions
2024-5 EU and International Next Steps and Actions
2024-5 Newcastle Campus EU and International Terms and Conditions
UK/EU Terms and Conditions
Distance Learning Terms and Conditions
Degree Apprenticeships Terms and Conditions
UK/EU Terms and Conditions EU and International Terms and Conditions 2023/4-Newcastle Campus EU and International Next Steps and Actions 2023/4- Newcastle Campus EU and International Terms and Conditions 2022-3 - Newcastle Campus Distance Learning Terms and Conditions Amsterdam Terms and Conditions London Terms and Conditions Degree Apprenticeships Terms and Conditions Additional terms for courses involving a professional placement and/or access to children and vulnerable adults.
Please note that it will be clearly identified to you in your course information if your programme includes a professional placement and / or access to children or vulnerable adults.
EU and International Terms and Conditions 2023/4-Newcastle Campus
EU and International Next Steps and Actions 2023/4- Newcastle Campus
EU and International Terms and Conditions 2022-3 - Newcastle Campus
Amsterdam Terms and Conditions
Additional terms for courses involving a professional placement and/or access to children and vulnerable adults.
International terms and Conditions and next Steps combined 2021 International Terms and Conditions 2020/1 International Terms and Conditions and next steps combined 2020 Summer School online International  Terms and Conditions 2019/20 Terms and Conditions of Offer 2017/18 Terms and Conditions of Offer 2018/19 Terms and Conditions of Offer 2019/0 Distance Learning Terms and Conditions (current)
International terms and Conditions and next Steps combined 2021
International Terms and Conditions 2020/1
International Terms and Conditions and next steps combined 2020 Summer School online
International  Terms and Conditions 2019/20
Terms and Conditions of Offer 2017/18
Terms and Conditions of Offer 2018/19
Terms and Conditions of Offer 2019/0
Distance Learning Terms and Conditions (current)
Admissions Policy Under 18 Student Information Letter Under 18 Student Consent Form Student and Applicant Privacy Notice NU Compliance Protocol
Admissions Policy
Under 18 Student Information Letter
Under 18 Student Consent Form
Student and Applicant Privacy Notice
NU Compliance Protocol
Competition and Markets Authority Policy
English Language Policy June 2023
We are required by Social Work
England (SWE) to have in place mechanisms to: 1.
Minimise
as far as possible the likelihood of students being selected who cannot
then be found placements for reasons related to their personal suitability
as highlighted in the SWE  Professional Standards and Qualifying Education
and Training Standards.
2.
Minimise
the risk of taking students who will then not obtain registration with SWE
upon completion of the programme.
When advised to do so by
admissions please download the form below and return it to bc.clearance.checks@northumbria.ac.uk by the date requested.
Failure to return the form,
will prevent you from enrolling on the programme.
Professional Suitability Form
We are required by Social Work
England (SWE) to have in place mechanisms to:
1.
Admissions Appeals and Complaints Policy
Criminal Conviction Policy 2020 Criminal Conviction Declaration Form 2020
Criminal Conviction Policy 2020
Criminal Conviction Declaration Form 2020

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/i-am-nu/experiential-learning:
There are lots of opportunities to apply your knowledge
in real-world settings.
We call it Experiential Learning.
You could be working on a consultancy project with industry
partners, gaining hands-on experience in a simulated workplace or stepping into the business world for a placement or internship.
Giving you the opportunity to develop your skills, test
your abilities and build your confidence.
All before you graduate – helping you be more prepared
for your chosen career.
Work on live briefs with real impact.
Our students collaborate with businesses, charities and public sector organisations to solve key challenges - from marketing strategies to legal cases and engineering solutions.
Through initiatives like the Business Clinic and Student Law Office, you’ll gain consultancy experience and build a professional portfolio before you graduate.
See how our students are making a difference through real-world projects.
Colour Run Powered by Sports Students
Marketing the lifeboat legacy with RNLI
Consultancy Project
Driving Digital Change with Nissan
Building a stronger brand with David Fairlamb Fitness
Put your learning into practice through immersive experiences - from on-campus simulated environments like our clinical skills centre and mock courtroom to conducting research in labs and fieldwork off campus.
Each opportunity reflects authentic, real-world settings, helping you to build confidence and develop your skills in a safe, supportive environment.
Discover how immersive learning can prepare you for your future career.
How simulations prepared me for teaching
BLOG
Research-enriched Learning
Step into a real workplace with a placement or internship opportunity.
From NHS wards and local schools to industry-leading companies , these experiences can give you an insight into your future career and boost your CV.
Build valuable skills, develop professional confidence and create networks that can open doors after graduation.
Find out how work experience can kickstart your career.
CAREERS SERVICE
Work Experience to Job Offer
My Top 3 Placement Insights
Experience life and learning in another country through our study abroad programmes.
Whether it’s a semester, a full year, or a short summer course, studying abroad offers the chance to explore new cultures and connect with students from around the world.
Over 200 Northumbria students take part each academic year, visiting destinations like Japan, Australia, France, and the USA.
Find out how studying abroad can open doors to a world of opportunities.
Study Abroad
Boost your employability.
How to Network at University
Student Blog
How to talk about your uni experience in job applications
Why communication skills are a career superpower.
Employer Blog
Top 10 in demand skills in 2025
Why Experiential Learning matters

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/i-am-nu/experiential-learning/research-rich-learning:
Our academics are tackling tomorrow’s challenges through
their research: climate change, hunger and poverty,
energy for the future, living in a digital world and so much more.
But research-rich learning is so
much more than simply being taught about somebody’s research in a classroom.
It’s about co-creating new knowledge through research with
academics and your fellow students.
You
will learn how to apply that knowledge to solve real life problems and make your
impact on the world.
Meet some of our academics and discover how they bring their research into teaching.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/planning-your-career/careers-and-employment:
Come along and speak to us to make the most of your time here at University.
We can help you find
relevant experience and gain the transferable skills that employers are looking
for.
We are now offering  a blended approach to specialist careers guidance, employability advice and careers clinic appointments via either video chat or face to face.
We will be using MS Teams for these appointments and look forward to seeing you.
Our team of dedicated, professional staff are here to help you get the most out of your time at Northumbria University and beyond.
Meet the team
Careers Online
Jobs Online
International Mobility
Placements
Careers Events
First Year Guide
Information for Graduates
Thinking of studying at Northumbria
Student and Graduate Enterprise
Services for Employers
Higher Education Achievement Report

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/academic-departments/newcastle-business-school/business-clinic:
THE BUSINESS CLINIC
At Newcastle Business School, we don’t just teach in the
classroom.
Our Business Clinic provides you with the chance to be a business consultant before you graduate, working with real clients on real briefs,
responding to real challenges.
It’s win-win – you get to develop the skills needed
to succeed in the business world and our clients are equipped with the insights
needed to drive their businesses forward and achieve their goals.
From SMEs to multi-nationals and everything in-between, you are trusted to help clients address their problems and transform their
businesses, bringing fresh perspectives and new solutions to the table.
Our approach to experiential
learning gives you the skills, knowledge and expertise needed to make
a real impact now and in the future.
Don’t just take our word for it, read on to find out why
we’re business, but not as usual.
Our consultancy services are available to all types of organisations, from multinationals, SMEs, the third sector including social enterprises and charities, through to local authorities and the public sector.
We have worked with many businesses, including...
We work with a range businesses every year from all sectors, shapes and sizes covering a diverse range of topics and issues.
You can search our business courses, book an Open Day and explore Newcastle Business School.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/international/international-mobility:
For some students the opportunity to study their subject in a different academic environment is key, and for others the opportunity to live in another culture and interact with students of different nationalities is the real attraction.
That is why we offer exciting opportunities for you to study and visit countries all over the world, including Japan, Australia, France and the USA.
Over 200 Northumbria students study abroad each academic year, considerably increasing their employability prospects.
Students usually study abroad for one semester or a full academic year, in which time you will not only gain unforgettable experiences and memories, but also personal contacts that you can benefit from for years to come.
Almost every programme at Northumbria has a 4 year variant where students have the option to study abroad in their third year of study.
Alternatively, International Short Programmes are open to all students looking to spend 2-8 weeks abroad over summer.
Study abroad processes
Santander Scholarships
Why Study Abroad?
Where can I study?
Find out more about our study abroad and exchange opportunities →
International Short Programme
Turing Scheme
Study Abroad Student Profiles
Social Media
What you need to know

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/international/course-search:
Ranked a World Top 100 Young University (Times Higher Education Young University Rankings 2024), Northumbria is a research-intensive university that unlocks potential for all, boasting a diverse community of 35,000 students from 140 countries.
Applications for September 2025 and January 2026 entry are open.
Whether you are considering an undergraduate , postgraduate , top-up or pathway degree with us, we're here to support you.
SCHOLARSHIPS FOR 2025/26 ENTRY
BOOK NOW: VIRTUAL EVENTS & WEBINARS
NORTHUMBRIA & YOUR COUNTRY
YOUR GUIDE TO APPLYING
CONTACT OUR GLOBAL OFFICES
ROUTE TO SUCCESS: EMPLOYABILITY
LIVING IN UNIVERSITY ACCOMMODATION
PARENTS' GUIDE TO UNIVERSITY
Hear from our current international students and alumni, follow us on social media and engage with the Students' Union
STUDENT PROFILES
ALUMNI PROFILES
FOLLOW US ON SOCIAL MEDIA

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/international/london-campus:
Whether you are looking for a full-time or part-time programme, choose from a range of Business, Computing, Cyber, Project Management and Technology focused programmes at our London Campus.
Ideally situated just minutes away from Liverpool Street station, benefit from studying in a location where the financial district meets the heart of London’s digital and technology sector.
This offers you an excellent base from which to take full advantage of all that studying in one of the world’s leading cities has to offer, including work experience and networking opportunities.
Read more
Northumbria University’s London Campus offers industry-focused Business, Computing, IT and Project Management courses amid the buzz of London’s business and financial district.
We aim to make the transition from your home country to the UK as easy as possible, with student support services available to help you with any questions you may have.
We offer a variety of Postgraduate, Undergraduate (Top-Up) and Pre-Masters degree programmes designed to help you in reaching your career goals.
Learn about our range of scholarships, bursaries and payment plans for many of our programmes to support you through your studies.
Gateway to your Northumbria Experience – prep for university, induction, FAQs, finance and more.
Give yourself one less thing to worry about as a student – use our free tool to understand where your money goes and make better decisions about how you manage your money.
Create your own personalised prospectus and only add the courses and information you want to know more about

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/international/pathway-college/northumbria-pathway:
Pathway Programmes at Northumbria University, Newcastle
Our range of Foundation Programmes and Pre-Masters are designed to help bridge the gap between your current academic and English level and your chosen route of study.
Not only do we prepare you for study at Northumbria but you will gain skills that will last a lifetime whilst benefiting you in your future career.
We want you to feel at home when you’re here and we pride ourselves on being knowledgeable and approachable so we can help you with any queries you may have.
Not sure which pathway is right for you?
Find out key information and learn about our programmes to help you choose your pathway.
Our pathway and pre-masters programmes prepare you for study at Northumbria University and equip you with skills that will last a lifetime whilst also benefitting you in your future career.
We run start dates throughout the year depending on your chosen course.
Check our application deadlines, tuition fees and payment plans we offer here.
Whether you are new to the UK or have already lived in the UK for a while, we are here to help and support you with a wide range of different issues that you might face during your time here.
You can access a country-specific guide containing lots of useful information to help you apply to study with us.
Give yourself one less thing to worry about as a student – use our student budget calculator to understand where your money goes and make better decisions about how you manage your money.
Create your own personalised prospectus and add only the courses and information you want to know more about
Over 45,000 students from across the world choose to study in Newcastle every year and the city is regularly voted one of the top student cities in the UK.
Digital Prospectus
How to Apply
Campus Facilities
9 Steps for Applying for Your Pathway Programme
Guide for Choosing the Right UK Agent
The pathway programmes detailed on this website are run in partnership with QA Higher Education - a UK higher education provider.
All of our pathway programmes are validated by the University and taught by QA Higher Education and University staff.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/international/northumbria-international-events:
Discover more about studying at Northumbria University as an International student, at an upcoming event.
Alternatively, you can get in touch with your corresponding Global Office or chat with a member of our International Recruitment Team.
Having trouble booking onto an event?
Please e-mail bc.international.marketing@northumbria.ac.uk for assistance.
Interested in studying an undergraduate or postgraduate degree with us in September 2025 or beyond?
Book your place below to discover how, or register your interest with us.
SOUTH EAST ASIA INFORMATION WEBINAR
MULTIPLE DATES AVAILABLE FOR COUNTRIES ACROSS SOUTH EAST ASIA
INDIA GLOBAL OFFICE INFORMATION WEBINAR
MULTIPLE DATES AVAILABLE FOR STUDENTS FROM INDIA, BANGLADESH AND NEPAL
INTERNATIONAL STUDENT INFORMATION WEBINAR
EVENTS FOR ALL INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
WEST AFRICA INFORMATION WEBINAR
MULTIPLE DATES AVAILABLE FOR STUDENTS FROM NIGERIA AND GHANA
Studying in the UK or here for a visit and want
to visit us on-campus?
Interested in one of NU Advice virtual events?
Looking
to explore our campus from the comfort of your own home?
UK-BASED UNDERGRADUATE & POSTGRADUATE EVENTS
ON-CAMPUS OPEN DAYS & VIRTUAL EVENTS - BOOK NOW
Book a one-to-one virtual session with a our regional teams by clicking the continents below.
Upon submitting your details, you will be redirected to a booking page to find a date and time that works for you.
Global Offices and Regional Contacts Contacts Contact Country / Region West Africa Office Click Here West Africa - Nigeria and Ghana Samuel Smith Click Here Central Africa - Angola, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, DR Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon and Sao Tome & Principe Catia Garcia Click Here East Africa - Burundi, Comoros, Djibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Rwanda, Seychelles, Somalia, South Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe Catia Garcia Click Here North Africa - Algeria, Egypt, Libya, Morocco, Sudan and Tunisia Samuel Smith Click Here Southern Africa - Botswana, Eswatini, Lesotho, Namibia and South Africa Samuel Smith Click Here West Africa - Benin, Burkina Faso, Cabo Verde, Côte d'Ivoire, Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Sierra Leone and Togo Iain Harris Click Here International students based/living in the UK Events In Your Region We don't have any in-country events available for Africa currently.
Please register your interest to be kept up to date when events become available in your region.
Samuel Smith
Central Africa - Angola, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, DR Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon and Sao Tome & Principe
Catia Garcia
Click Here
We don't have any in-country events available for Africa currently.
Global Offices and Regional Contacts Contacts Book Now Country / Region China Office Click Here Mainland China South East Asia Hub Click Here Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Hong Kong, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Thailand and Vietnam India Office Click Here India, Bangladesh and Nepal Rob Carthy Click Here Pakistan Iain Harris Click Here International students based/living in the UK Events In Your Region We don't have any in-country events available for Asia currently.
Please check back later or register your interest to be notified when events become available in your region.
We don't have any in-country events available for Asia currently.
Regional Contacts Contacts Book Now Country / Region Iain Harris Click Here Mainland Europe Iain Harris Click Here European/International students living in the UK Events In Your Region We don't have any in-country events scheduled within Europe currently.
Please register your interest to be notified when events become available in your region.
Iain Harris
We don't have any in-country events scheduled within Europe currently.
Regional Contacts Contacts Book Now Country /Region Samuel Smith Click Here Middle East - Qatar, Jordan, Lebanon, Oman, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates; other Catia Garcia Click Here Middle East - Kuwait and Bahrain Iain Harris Click Here International students living/based in the UK Events In Your Country We don't have any in-country events available for the Middle East yet.
We don't have any in-country events available for the Middle East yet.
Regional Contacts Contacts Book Now Country/Region Iain Harris Click Here USA and Canada Iain Harris Click Here North American/International students based/living in the UK Events In Your Country We don't have any in-country events confirmed for North America yet.
Please check back later or register your interest in studying with us.
We don't have any in-country events confirmed for North America yet.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/international/international-application-guide:
To help you on your way to Northumbria University, we have created a unique hub that is home to all the information you need to successfully submit your application.
We cover everything from key dates and deadlines and application support, to what happens after you have applied and insight into life with us here at Northumbria!
Key Dates & Deadlines
Country Specific Entry Requirements
English Language Guidance
Book onto an Event
Tuition Fees & Scholarship Search
Study UK: Guide to Applying via an Education Agent
Contact a Northumbria Global Office or Recruitment Officer
Contact Applicant Services
Applicant Portal
Common Queries
Interview & Portfolio Support
Student Life
I Am Northumbria
Follow Us on Social Media

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/international/entry-requirements:
Register your interest in studying with us and we'll keep you up-to-date with all things Northumbria University.
Already applied to study with us and done so via an Agent?
You can provide feedback on your experience of working with your chosen agent here .
Pathway Study
Undergraduate Study
Postgraduate Study
Research Degrees

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/international/our-regional-offices:
Our Global Offices provide free-of-charge advice and guidance to students looking to study with us and value-added services to our international business associates and partners.
Discover where they operate and how to engage with them below.
INDIA OFFICE
Responsible for: Bangladesh, India and Nepal
SOUTH EAST ASIA HUB
Responsible for: Brunei, Cambodia, Hong Kong, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Indonesia, Thailand and Vietnam
WEST AFRICA OFFICE
Responsible for Ghana & Nigeria
CHINA OFFICE
Responsible for Mainland China only
REST OF THE WORLD
Countries Not Covered by a Global Office
Key Links
We understand some students prefer to utilise education agents to support their university application.
Please use the search function below to find your nearest agent, ensuring you filter based on the country you are applying from.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/international/english-language-centre/acceptable-english-qualifications-1:
Find out about recognised English tests, any acceptable country specific qualifications and relevant exemptions.
General University English Language requirements
Please note that acceptance of these
qualifications is entirely at the discretion of the University’s admissions
team and you may be asked for additional evidence of English language ability
if your programme or your visa requires it.
*The following qualifications
are acceptable as evidence of English language ability.
IELTS Academic Trinity College Integrated Skills in English LanguageCert International ESOL SELT PSI Skills for English PTE Academic (test centre only) TOEFL IBT (test centre only) European Baccalaureate International Baccalaureate Literature/Language and Literature Kaplan KIC/KEELT QAHE English Language Test Password GCSE/International GCSE English INTO English Cambridge Advanced English IELTS indicator Duolingo Acceptance
onto programmes is still however also subject to meeting any current UKVI
immigration rules for your programme
Acceptance
onto programmes is still however also subject to meeting any current UKVI
immigration rules for your programme
The tests below will be accepted as evidence of English language proficiency, where the English component of the qualification meets an appropriate level.
Successful completion of the whole qualification for tests marked * will be sufficient as evidence Country Qualification Australia* High School Diploma Bachelor/Higher degree from accredited institution Botswana BGCSE Cameroon O Level Canada* High School Diploma Bachelor/Higher degree from accredited institution Caribbean Caribbean Examinations Council Secondary Education Certificate* Hong Kong A level Use of English * HKCEE-* HKDSE* Bachelor/Masters in English (from government universities) India All India Senior Secondary School Cert Standard 12th/ICSE in English
            (Central Board of Secondary Education) Indian School Certificate Examinations 12th (Council for the Indian
            School Certificate Examinations new Delhi) Senior Secondary School Certificate Standard 12th in English  (State Board Exams from Andhra Pradesh, Bihar,
            Karnataka,  Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil
            Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal) Senior Secondary School Certificate Standard 12th in English (State board
            - Punjab/Gujarat/Haryana) IELTS Mandatory Kenya Kenyan Certificate of Secondary Education Malaysia SPM119 Malawi School Certificate of Education Namibia Senior Secondary Certificate New Zealand High School Diploma South Africa National Senior Certificate/Grade 12 Tanzania O Level National Examinations Council of Tanzania Certificate of Secondary Education Uganda Certificate of Education USA* High School Diploma Bachelor/Higher degree from accredited institution West Africa West African Senior School Certificate/WAEC Zambia General Certificate of Education/Grade 12 Zimbabwe General Certificate of Education/Grade 12
Successful completion of the whole qualification for tests marked * will be sufficient as evidence
Country
Qualification
Australia*
High School Diploma
Bachelor/Higher degree from accredited institution
Botswana
BGCSE
Cameroon
O Level
Canada*
Caribbean
Caribbean Examinations Council Secondary Education Certificate*
Hong Kong
A level Use of English *
HKCEE-*
HKDSE*
Bachelor/Masters in English (from government universities)
India
All India Senior Secondary School Cert Standard 12th/ICSE in English
            (Central Board of Secondary Education)
Indian School Certificate Examinations 12th (Council for the Indian
            School Certificate Examinations new Delhi)
Senior Secondary School Certificate Standard 12th in English  (State Board Exams from Andhra Pradesh, Bihar,
            Karnataka,  Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil
            Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal)
Senior Secondary School Certificate Standard 12th in English (State board
            - Punjab/Gujarat/Haryana) IELTS Mandatory
Kenya
Kenyan Certificate of Secondary Education
Malaysia
SPM119
Malawi
School Certificate of Education
Namibia
Senior Secondary Certificate
New Zealand
Tanzania
National Examinations Council of Tanzania Certificate of Secondary Education
Uganda
Certificate of Education
USA*
West Africa
West African Senior School Certificate/WAEC
Zambia
General Certificate of Education/Grade 12
Zimbabwe
Country Qualification Austria Reifeprufungszeugnis/Maturazeugnis Belgium Diploma Van Secundair Onderwijs/ Cert d Eseign Sec/Superieur/Abschulusszeugnisu der oberstufe des Sekundarunterrichts Bulgaria Diploma Za Sredno SpetsailnoObrazovanie - English English State Award Cyprus Aployterion English Czech Republic Maturita Denmark Studentereksamen Finland Ylioppilaustutkintotodistus/Studentexamensbetyg France French Baccalaureate (General/OIB) Germany Abitur DAAD Hungary Erettsegi / Matura English Iceland Studentsprof Lativia Atestāts par vispārējo vidējo izglītību (English) Lithuania Brandos Atestatas English National State Examinations Luxembourg Diploma de Fin d'Etudes Secondaires Malta Secondary Education Certificate Netherlands VWO Norway Vitnemal Poland Matura Romania Diploma de Bacalaureat Slovakia Maturita Sweden Slutbetyg fran Gymnasieskolan Switzerland Matura
Austria
Reifeprufungszeugnis/Maturazeugnis
Belgium
Diploma Van Secundair Onderwijs/ Cert d Eseign Sec/Superieur/Abschulusszeugnisu der oberstufe des Sekundarunterrichts
Bulgaria
Diploma Za Sredno SpetsailnoObrazovanie - English
Aployterion English
Czech Republic
Maturita
Denmark
Studentereksamen
Finland
Ylioppilaustutkintotodistus/Studentexamensbetyg
France
French Baccalaureate (General/OIB)
Germany
Abitur
DAAD
Erettsegi / Matura English
Iceland
Studentsprof
Lativia
Atestāts par vispārējo vidējo izglītību (English)
Lithuania
Brandos Atestatas
English National State Examinations
Luxembourg
Diploma de Fin d'Etudes Secondaires
Malta
Secondary Education Certificate
Netherlands
VWO
Norway
Vitnemal
Poland
Matura
Romania
Diploma de Bacalaureat
Sweden
Slutbetyg fran Gymnasieskolan
Switzerland
Visa Nationals who have taken an academic qualification equivalent to a UK Bachelor Degree or higher taught in the following countries will be exempt from having to prove your English Language level.
Antigua and Barbuda Australia the Bahamas Barbados Belize Dominica Grenada Guyana Ireland Jamaica New Zealand St Kitts and Nevis St Lucia St Vincent and the Grenadines Trinidad and Tobago UK USA Nationals of the following countries are exempt from taking an English test Antigua and Barbuda Australia the Bahamas Barbados Belize Canada Dominica Grenada Guyana Jamaica New Zealand St Kitts and Nevis St Lucia St Vincent and the Grenadines Trinidad and Tobago UK USA Ireland
Nationals of the following countries are exempt from taking an English test

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/international/english-language-centre:
You can check the English Language requirements, plus accepted English qualifications for your chosen course below.
But don't worry, if you don't meet the requirements, we offer a range of Pre-sessional English and Study Skills programmes throughout the year and we also run a large Summer School.
We provide a warm, friendly and supportive environment for international students to prepare for UG and PG study.
In addition, we provide in-sessional support to international students across the university and we also offer a portfolio of short courses for professionals.
Students will experience a range of academic contexts and tasks and develop their ability to deal with the study requirements of a British university whilst improving their academic and social English.
Our programmes aim to help students become confident, independent and reflective learners who are able to devise their own strategies for continuing their English language and academic development both at Northumbria and beyond.
We place great importance on the quality of experience we provide to students from a wide range of backgrounds and countries including the UK & Europe, the Middle East, Africa, South East and East Asia, Latin-America and the Indian Sub continent.
All our English language programmes are accredited by the British Council.
The University's English language requirements for most academic courses are listed below.
We usually require you to have a University recognised English language test such as IELTS, Pearson or equivalent.
Find out about recognised English tests, any acceptable country specific qualifications and relevant exemptions
This programme is ideal if your academic qualifications meet the requirements for your chosen undergraduate or postgraduate course, but your English language level falls below the entry requirements of the academic course you wish to join.
Based at our London Campus this programme is ideal if your academic qualifications meet the requirements for your chosen undergraduate or postgraduate course, but your English language level falls below the entry requirements of the academic course you wish to join.
All European and International students at Northumbria have an opportunity to study in-sessional ALS programmes to help you develop your academic and English language skills
The English Language Centre is a Centre of Excellence for short course teaching of English to professionals and we have delivered programmes to clients such as Shell, Scottish & Newcastle, Nordea Bank and a number of European organizations.
Unilang – the institution-wide language programme Studying a language is an important key to developing graduate attributes, that is the skills and capabilities that employers seek in addition to your formal degree qualification.
This is something that can really make you stand out from the crowd,

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/support-for-students/international-student-support:
We give a warm welcome to all our
international students who are coming to study here at Northumbria
University.
Whether you are new to the UK or have already lived in the UK
for a while, we are here to help you with a wide range of different issues that
you might face during your time here.
To help you settle into life at
Northumbria University, our Welfare, Immigration and Funding Advisers offer
free, confidential guidance and support on a wide range of issues
including:
We offer a 'Meet and Greet' service for new students, where we will arrange to meet you at Newcastle Airport and transport you to your accommodation.
For international parents supporting your child in their journey to Northumbria university, visit our International Parents Guide .
Tel: +44 (0) 191 227 4127
Finances
Driving in the UK
Register to Vote
Police Registration
Register with a doctor
Working in the UK
Immigration Support
Immigration Advice and OISC
Meet and Greet service

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/fees-funding/international-fees-funding/international-ug-fees:
This information is for students with Overseas fees status, applying to study at Northumbria University in the academic year 2025/26.
UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) guidance on tuition fee eligibility.
Fees apply to both Full and Part-Time courses.
Design Courses
£19,350
Geography and Environmental Science Courses
( Excluding all NEBOSH courses)
Applied Science Courses
Nursing, Midwifery and Health Courses
Social Work, Education and Community Well-Being Courses
Sport, Exercise and Rehabilitation Courses
( Excluding Physiotherapy BSc(Hons))
International Foundation Year (2 semesters)
(1 semester - Incoming students to Northumbria from an overseas University)
Last updated: 14/02/2025
This information is for students with Overseas fees status, applying to study at Northumbria University in the academic year 2024/25.
£18,250
£19,750
International Foundation Year (3 semesters)
£11,250
£16,750
(1 semester - incoming students to Northumbria from an overseas University)
Last updated: 03/06/2024

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/fees-funding/international-fees-funding/international-ug-funding:
This information is for undergraduate applicants with Overseas fee status applying to study at Northumbria University in the academic year 25/26.
Northumbria University is committed to supporting the best students with outstanding academic ability.
We offer a number of support packages for students depending on academic achievement or personal financial circumstances; each of the tabs below will provide you with further information.
Financial support opportunities have associated eligibility conditions, therefore it is essential applicants consider all requirements and observe the application process and deadlines carefully.
Undergraduate UK International Scholarship for September 2025 - Specific terms and conditions apply.
You must be currently studying at a UK institution other than Northumbria University.
Early Payment Discount - £500 tuition fee discount to those who pay their deposit by 31 May 2025 for September 2025 entry and 31 October 2025 for January 2026 entry
Undergraduate Sanctuary Scholarship - Applications are now closed
Northumbria University participates in the William D.
Ford Federal Direct Loan Programme.
If you are an American student studying an Undergraduate or Masters course at Northumbria then you should apply for
loans by completing a free application for Student Aid at studentloans.gov .
Please see our Financial Aid pages for further information.
The FINS Education Loan Scheme developed by the EDUCATIVA Group and available to all students from an EU member state that want to study at a reputable university in Europe.
Fundraising How - Online consultancy firm for Scandinavian students wanting to study abroad
Home - normally, in order to be classed as a home student, you will need to have been living in the UK for at least three years for purposes other than education and have settled status.
Further information can be found by referring to the UKCISA website .
Bursary – a bursary is a means tested financial award given to students who meet the criteria of the scheme.
Not all bursaries are given in cash, but could be services or resources of an equivalent financial value.
Scholarship – a financial award given to eligible students who meet the terms and conditions as determined by the scheme.
Sponsorship arrangement - if your fees are being paid in full or part by another sponsor (such as an employer, charity or trust) this will be considered as a sponsorship arrangement.
Self-funding - students who are assuming full responsibility for the funding of their course.
Please note students in receipt of a loan from the Student Loan Company are identified as a self-funding student.
Last updated: 30/06/2025
This information is for undergraduate applicants with Overseas fee status applying to study at Northumbria University in the academic year 24/25.
Undergraduate Sanctuary Scholarship for September 2024 - Applications are now closed
Undergraduate UK International Scholarship for September 2024 - Specific terms and conditions apply.
You must be currently studying at a UK institution.
The FINS
loan scheme, developed by the EDUCATIVA Group with the support of the European
Union and guaranteed by the European Investment Fund, is available to all students
from an EU member state that lack the financial resources to pursue higher
education abroad.
Courses:
Loan Amount:
Eligibility:
Further criteria may also apply as detailed on the FINS website
The FINS loan
scheme is flexible and can be used for the following:
Application
process:
Deadline:
For further information please
contact info@hellofins.com
**Please note that this is a
private loan scheme – fees, interest rates and penalties may apply**
Scholarship – a financial award given to eligible students who meet the academic threshold as determined by the scheme.
Last updated: 29/04/2024

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/fees-funding/international-fees-funding/international-masters-fees:
This information is for students with Overseas fees status, applying to study at Northumbria University in the academic year 25/26.
Business Graduate Certificate
Arts, Design and Social Sciences Courses (1 year route)
Conservation of Fine Art MA (Two Years)
Business and Finance Courses (1 year route)
Business and Finance Courses (2 year route)
£20,950
£23,950
Computing, Engineering and Environment Courses (1 year route)
Health and Life Science Courses (1 year route)
*Biology, Food and Nutrition, Forensic Science, Sport and Exercise Science (1 year)
*Biology, Food and Nutrition, Forensic Science, Sport and Exercise Science (2 year)
Occupational Therapy (Pre-Registration) MSc (Two Years)
Physiotherapy (Pre-Registration) MSc (Two Years)
25/26 International Undergraduate Tuition Fees
Last updated: 05/03/2025
This information is for students with Overseas fees status, applying to study at Northumbria University in the academic year 24/25.
£22,750
Legal Postgraduate Diploma LLM
LLM in Legal Practice LLM

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/fees-funding/international-fees-funding/international-masters-funding:
This information is for Postgraduate applicants with Overseas fee status applying to study at Northumbria University in the academic years 25/26.
Financial support opportunities have associated eligibility conditions, therefore it is essential applicants consider all requirements and observe the application process and deadlines carefully .
Alumni Discount for continuing and former Northumbria students
Early Payment Discount - £500 tuition fee discount to those who pay their deposit before 31 May 2025 for September 2025 entry and 31 October 2025 for January 2026 entry
Postgraduate Sanctuary Scholarship - Applications are now closed
Bar Course Scholarship for September 2025 - Applications are now open
Postgraduate UK International Scholarship for September 2025 - Specific terms and conditions apply.
You must be currently studying at a UK institution.
Ford Federal Direct Loan (Direct Loan) Programme.
If you are an American student studying an Undergraduate or Masters course at Northumbria then you should apply for loans by completing a free application for Student Aid at studentloans.gov .
https://www.fundraising.how/en-intl/resources
What are Chevening Scholarships?
Chevening Scholarships are the UK government’s global scholarship programme, funded by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) and partner organisations.
The Scholarships are awarded to outstanding scholars with leadership potential.
Awards are typically for a one-year Master’s degree.
Who can apply for a Chevening Scholarship?
Applicants should be high calibre graduates with the personal, intellectual and interpersonal qualities necessary for leadership.
Chevening Scholars come from 144 countries and territories worldwide (excluding the USA and the EU).
To be eligible for a Chevening Scholarship, you must:
Most Chevening Scholarships cover:
Some Scholarships cover part of the cost of studying in the UK; for example, tuition fees only or allowances only.
When do applications for Chevening Scholarships open?
Applications for Chevening Scholarships open in the autumn.
Exact dates will be available on the country pages of www.chevening.org .
How to apply for a Chevening Scholarship:
Full information about deadlines and priority subjects for countries which offer Chevening Scholarships will be available on the country pages of www.chevening.org .
Further information:
For further information on applying for a Chevening Scholarship, sign up for alerts at www.chevening.org .
Applicants can also contact the Chevening Scholarships Secretariat at www.chevening.org/enquiry .
For queries, please email: sue.vout@northumbria.ac.uk
This information is for Postgraduate applicants with Overseas fee status applying to study at Northumbria University in the academic years 24/25.
The Bar Scholarship for September 2024 - Applications are now closed
Postgraduate Sanctuary Scholarship for September 2024 - Applications are now closed
Postgraduate UK International Scholarship for September 2024 - Specific terms and conditions apply.
You must be currently studying at a UK institution .
The FINS loan scheme, developed by the EDUCATIVA Group with the support of the European Union and guaranteed by the European Investment Fund, is available to all students from an EU member state that lack the financial resources to pursue higher education abroad.
Further criteria may also apply as detailed on the FINS website
The FINS loan scheme is flexible and can be used for the following:
Application process:
For further information please contact info@hellofins.com
**Please note that this is a private loan scheme – fees, interest rates and penalties may apply**
For queries, please email: fc.international.sponsors@northumbria.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/fees-funding/international-fees-funding/international-pgr-fees:
This information is for students with Overseas fee status applying to study at Northumbria University in the academic year 2025/26.
Click here for the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) guidance on tuition fee eligibility.
Please note - A standard Full-Time course is 3 years, a standard Part-Time course is 5 years .
Full-Time International
Fees Per Year
Part-Time International
Band 1
Applies to PGR projects that can be completed within standard University-wide PGR resource provision.
£10,788
Band 2
Typically applies to primarily desk-based PGR projects with modest requirements beyond standard University-wide PGR resource provision.*
£19,314
£11,588
Band 3
Applies to PGR projects with project-related requirements as identified for Band 2 and typically also including intensive fieldwork, or intensive access to specialist facilities such as laboratories, studios and associated specialist equipment, software and consumables.
£21,976
£13,186
Band 4
Shares the typical costs of Bands 2 & 3 and also includes access to premium facilities and/ or consumables.
£25,970
£15,582
PhD Published Work
(staff-only fee)
£1,230
(for alumni, those with a formal academic association, or partner organisations)
£7,000
Last updated:13/11/2024
This information is for students with Overseas fee status applying to study at Northumbria University in the academic year 2024/25.
£8,990
£16,095
£9,657
£18,314
£10,998
£21,642
£12,985
Last updated: 10/10/2023

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/fees-funding/international-fees-funding/pgr-funding:
This information is for applicants with Overseas fee status applying to study at Northumbria University in the academic year 2025/26.
In this changing world Northumbria is dedicated to support our students to achieve their ambitions, to encourage their curiosity, creativity and confidence, so they can confront the challenges of the future head on.
Masters or Postgraduate Research study may give your career the edge you need to reach your goals, or to change direction.
Northumbria offers affordable fees and payment plans for Masters and MRes/PhD study.
Financial support opportunities have associated eligibility conditions, therefore it is essential applicants consider all requirements and observe application processes and deadlines.
Alumni Discount for continuing and former Northumbria students.
There are a number of other sources of funding available.
There are Government backed schemes such as the Professional and Career Development Loans (PCDL) and many private providers offer loans to students that help to contribute towards tuition fees and living costs whilst studying.
We would always encourage students to research the full range of options for funding, and ensure that they are completely clear about what they are signing up for before they commit.
In relation to loans, Northumbria University does not endorse or recommend any particular companies or products, and it is important to check all details and terms and conditions before applying for or taking out a loan, ensuring that you are aware of repayment schedules, and interest rates and other charges that might be applied.
Professional and Career Development Loans (PCDL) are bank loans to pay for courses and training that help with your career or help get you into work.
You may be able to borrow between £300 and £10,000.
Loans are usually offered at a reduced interest rate and the government pays interest while you’re studying.
Providers, such as Future Finance , offer loans to cover tuition fees and costs of living, with variable interest rates depending on your credit history.
(N.B.
Northumbria does not endorse or have any connection with Future Finance and we are not able to advise on specific financial products of this or other companies.) Loans are available for both UK and international students (including EU).
Loans generally have arrangement fees and may require a guarantor.
Repayments may start before you have graduated from your course and, where this is the case, you must ensure that you are able to meet the loan repayments in addition to meeting all of your other course and living costs.
Northumbria University offers a range of funding schemes to support research students.
These include full-time Doctoral studentships including payment of a stipend and home fees.
These may be funded wholly by Northumbria University or in collaboration with external partners.
In addition, Doctoral studentships funded by UK Research Councils may be on offer at Northumbria.
If you are an applicant from overseas, you should also consider if funding opportunities are offered by your own government.
To view all current studentships vacancies at Northumbria, visit our research degree opportunities page.
If you have any further queries about postgraduate funding and you would like to speak to an Adviser, please come to a drop-in session at Student Central, Library Building, City Campus West:
Mon-Fri (10.00am-4.00pm)
Wed (1.00pm-4.00pm)
E: sv.welfareandinternational@northumbria.ac.uk
The Commonwealth Scholarship Commission in the UK (CSC) provides the main UK government scholarship scheme led by international development objectives.
The CSC is an executive non-departmental public body, sponsored by the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO)  The CSC operates within the framework of the Commonwealth Scholarship and Fellowship Plan (CSFP) and is a vivid demonstration of the UK’s enduring commitment to the Commonwealth.
Commonwealth Scholarships enable talented and motivated individuals to gain the knowledge and skills required for sustainable development, and are offered to citizens from low and middle income Commonwealth countries.
The majority of scholarships aim to contribute to the UK’s international development aims and wider overseas interests, supporting excellence in UK higher education, and sustaining the principles of the Commonwealth.
Northumbria University is in partnership with the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission (CSC) for the below scholarship.
The CSC’s family allowances are intended to be only a contribution towards the cost of maintaining your family in the UK.
The true costs are likely to be considerably higher, and you must be able to supplement these allowances to support any family members who come to the UK with you.
For more information, see the current Handbook for Commonwealth Scholars and Fellows , available on the CSC website under Handbook, Policies and Forms.
For queries, please email: pgr.admissions@northumbria.ac.uk
This information is for applicants with Overseas fee status applying to study at Northumbria University in the academic year 2024/25.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/international/agent-information:
Northumbria has Global Offices based in key overseas countries, and works with over 150 recruitment partners in more than 30 markets.
With the help of our agent, recruitment partners and representatives, we have enrolled 37,000 students from 146 countries at our Newcastle and London campuses, and academic partners across the world.
If you have a specific question or wish to contact Northumbria, please view our Contact Us Form where you will find answers to Frequently Asked Questions and can contact relevant teams.
If you are interested in becoming an Agent with Northumbria University please complete the Agent & Representative Application Form .
Following submission of an application, a member of our team will be in touch as soon as possible.
We greatly value the contribution of our overseas Education Agents and recruitment partners, who play an important role in helping us to successfully recruit international students from all over the world.
The work they do; representing Northumbria and promoting the University to
potential students is of great importance, counselling them, helping them with
the application process, guiding them on their visa application and preparing
them for their studies in the UK.
We require all our recruitment partners to adhere to the Agent Quality Framework (AQF).
The AQF is a set of tools to enhance the experience of international students working with Education Agents to apply to study in the UK.
The AQF is designed to ensure Education Agents have the right knowledge of the UK as a study destination and understand the integrity of the UK visa and immigration system, in order to uphold the UK’s reputation as a world-class study destination.
The AQF promotes four key principles: Empowering student choice and enabling informed decision making Ensuring good agent governance and professionalism Promoting ethical agent practices, professional knowledge and competency Increasing transparency and accountability.
To access the AQF suite of guidance and quality assurance tools, please visit: The UK Agent Quality Framework Your application to become a Northumbria Agent will not be accepted if you do not commit to follow the Agent Quality Framework.
The AQF promotes four key principles:
To access the AQF suite of guidance and quality assurance tools, please visit: The UK Agent Quality Framework
Your application to become a Northumbria Agent will not be accepted if you do not commit to follow the Agent Quality Framework.
We encourage all our Agents and Representatives to visit Northumbria University in person and we are happy to make arrangements for this.
If you would like to visit the Newcastle campus, please get in touch with your aligned Regional Office or contact u1.agent.comms.events@northumbria.ac.uk with the dates you would like to visit and what you would like to see.
Please note: we need at least two weeks notice to plan a visit so please ensure that you leave sufficient time to book your visit.
I wish to become a Northumbria University Agent/Representative Please complete the following Agent & Representative Application Form and a member of the team will be in touch about your application as soon as possible.
I have already submitted an application to become an Agent/Representative Your application will have been forwarded to the relevant Northumbria Country Representative.
Please be patient as the teams receive a high-level of queries and will therefore respond to your application as soon as possible.
I have a query about a student application If your query is regarding a new application for a student then please redirect your query to our Applicant Services Team , if your student is not from a country covered by one of our four Regional Offices .
Information for individuals who wish to become a Northumbria Agent/Representative
New Agent and Representatives Application Form
Apply to become an Agent or Representative for Northumbria

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/international/global-academic-partnerships:
We are a research-intensive university that unlocks potential for all, changing lives regionally, nationally and internationally.
Named Modern University of the Year by The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025, we have an extensive global network of high-quality academic partners.
Our portfolio of academic partnerships provides students with access to high quality study opportunities outside the UK.
Currently the University has a portfolio consisting of 17 academic partnerships in 10 countries.
More information on our current partnerships can be found by clicking on the regions below.
EUROPE
Amsterdam, Malta and Spain
EAST ASIA
China, Hong Kong and South Korea
MIDDLE EAST
Qatar
SOUTH ASIA
Sri Lanka
SOUTH EAST ASIA
Singapore and Indonesia
WEST INDIES
Grenada

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/international/global-community:
OUR GLOBAL COMMUNITY TOUCHES EVERY CORNER OF THE GLOBE.
WITH OVER 36,000 STUDENTS ENROLLED ON NORTHUMBRIA PROGRAMMES FROM 146 COUNTRIES.
OUR 236,000 STRONG ALUMNI NETWORK COVERS 178 COUNTRIES, AND OUR 3,500 STAFF ARE REPRESENTED BY 68 NATIONALITIES.
OUR ALUMNI COMMUNITY
FIND OUT HOW NORTHUMBRIA SHAPED THEM
OUR i2i PARTNERSHIP
COMBINING STUDY WITH A LOVE OF SOCCER
STUDY ABROAD
HEAR FROM STUDENTS ABOUT STUDY ABROAD PLACEMENTS

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/international/incoming-students:
Northumbria University is based in Newcastle upon Tyne, a popular University city bustling with life and cultural activity, located in one of England's most beautiful and historic regions.
Our city campus offers you a welcoming environment, a taste of British University life and a varied academic programme that meets your interests and academic needs.
The Programme is open to students who wish to follow a credit-based programme over one or two semesters.
On the following pages you will find further information about the programme and how to apply.
Why come to Northumbria?
Academic and English Language Requirements
Constructing Your Programme
Useful Information

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/business-services/education-and-training:
CALL 0191 215 6300
UPSKILL AND RESKILL YOUR STAFF TO HELP THEM REACH THEIR POTENTIAL.
INNOVATIVE & FLEXIBLE COURSES FOR THOSE WORKING IN HEALTH & SOCIAL CARE.
OUR AWARD WINNING BUSINESS SCHOOL OFFERS CPD & APPRENTICESHIPS FOR ALL SECTORS.
Northumbria named Modern University of the Year by The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
NEWS
FAQs
ACCESS OUR EXPERTS & DEPARTMENTS
Health and Social Practice Programmes
Leading Experts Inspire Occupational Therapy Students
Help to Grow Management programme
Scrolling pod
CNO002 Discovering a Nursing Career in General Practice
Why Small Business Matters Podcast
Courses for Architecture, Built Environment & Construction sector
Courses for Health & Social Care sector
Courses for Legal & Finance sector
read more news view more events
20 Aug 2025
Elite basketball players celebrate graduation with Northumbria
Northumbria University, Newcastle, is proud to cel...
19 Aug 2025
Double research award win for Northumbria health academics
Two academics from Northumbria University have bee...
11 Aug 2025
Top Awards for Architecture students
Two Northumbria students have been announced as wi...
15 Jun 2025
OBE for end-of-life care expert
Professor Allan Kellehear has been appointed Offic...
02 Jun 2025
Northumbria academic recognised in the British Forces in Business Awar...
...
22 May 2025
Northumbria retains globally-recognised built environment accreditatio...
Northumbria University has once again cemented its...
15 May 2025
Annual showcase REVEALs next generation of creative and cultural talen...
A student showcase which is one of the highlights...
08 Apr 2025
Northumbria Celebrates Success at Inaugural Apprenticeship Awards
Northumbria has recently hosted its first-ever App...
13 Feb 2025
Gatwick CEO speaks with Engineering students at Northumbria
Northumbria University alum and Chief Executive Of...
12 Dec 2024
Balfour Beatty apprentices graduate from Northumbria University
The first cohort of degree apprentices from Balfou...
16 Oct 2024
Expert addresses United Nations panel on improving care for older peop...
A leading expert in health and social care for old...
13 Oct 2024
Scholarship success for architecture student
An architecture student from Northumbria Universit...
Healthcare training facility opens to support delivery of new T-level...
A brand-new healthcare training facility which has...
26 Sep 2024
Success at Architects for Health Student Design Awards
Three Architecture students from Northumbria Unive...
19 Sep 2024
The Times and The Sunday Times name Northumbria ‘Modern University of...
Northumbria University has once again been recogni...
17 Sep 2024
Young people praise Northumbria University for delivery of HAF Plus pi...
Northumbria University has been praised by young p...
25 Jun 2024
The American Academy of Nursing honours Northumbria Professor with fel...
A nursing academic from Northumbria University who...
10 Jun 2024
New Architecture Apprenticeship Handbook is the first of its kind
An Assistant Professor in the Department of Archit...
02 Jun 2024
New report calls for more support for schools to improve health and we...
Northumbria University academics have contributed...
15 May 2024
Northumbria launches UK's first specialist practice qualification in a...
Northumbria University has become the first higher...
13 May 2024
Northumbria ranks top 35 in UK and among the best 100 in the world
Northumbria University has achieved huge success i...
02 May 2024
Northumbria University wins prestigious award for nursing apprenticesh...
Northumbria University has been named the UK’s Nur...
10 Apr 2024
Aspiring Architect wins prestigious industry awards
An Architecture student at Northumbria University...
Northumbria celebrates 100th nursing degree apprenticeship graduate
Over one hundred registered nurses have now been a...
21 Mar 2024
New T-level course to encourage young people into Health careers
Bede Academy has developed a new T-Level course in...
20 Feb 2024
Nursing Degree Apprenticeship shortlisted for national award
Northumbria University’s Nursing Degree Apprentice...
24 Jan 2024
Prestigious award win for top health and safety talent
A Northumbria University student has been named th...
18 Sep 2023
Major £2m expansion of nursing test centre will bring thousands more n...
A national nurse testing centre at Northumbria Uni...
07 Sep 2023
Northumbria named UK’s research university and modern university of th...
Northumbria University has been named Research Uni...
12 Sep 2023
Northumbria University rises in the rankings again
Northumbria University is continuing to climb the...
RECRUIT OUR STUDENTS AND GRADUATES
TAP INTO OUR STUDENT TALENT
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
RESEARCH AND CONSULTANCY
Your search returned 96 results .
This practice-based distance learning course has been designed to meet the distinct needs of hospital doctors who are required to make medical decisions with legal implications.
The Certificate in Mental Health Law and Practice has been designed to provide an introduction to mental health law for students whose work involves the application of statutory and common law provisions relating to the voluntary and compulsory care and treatment of individuals who are suffering from mental disorder.
This programme has been tailored to provide a systematic academic and work-based means to enable eligible professionals to prepare for the Approved Clinician (AC) role (Mental Health Act 1983) and to produce evidence of competencies.
Northumbria University is proud to be able to offer our accredited Advanced Carbon Footprinting (GHG Accounting), Carbon Management and Carbon Reporting CPD course.
The course is designed to provide the knowledge and skills to calculate the carbon footprint of an organisation, in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
The content is largely generic, supported by a range of case studies, and is applicable…
Our Degree Apprenticeship MSc Advanced Clinical Practitioner provides an exciting opportunity for those working as experienced, registered, health professionals to develop in their advanced clinical practice roles.
The programme provides qualified nurses who are working in the speciality of adult critical care with an opportunity to develop knowledge and skills to inform clinical practice and challenge existing ways of working.
This programme leads to the award of Neonatal Qualified in Specialty (QIS).
The programme supports the academic advancement of registered professionals working in neonatal care environments.
The aim of the programme is to develop competent practitioners who will contribute to the care of infants, their families and carers.
This course covers a wide range of topics in applied polymer chemistry and will be a valuable resource to researchers working in the polymer, coating, materials, composites and foam industries.
This course will enable you to deliver safe and evidenced based health care regarding B12 administration within primary care.
Students will be provided with a competency assessment to complete in their own practice area.
Behaviour change has become one of the most prominent topics of discussion within academic and lay circles in recent times.
This course will cover issues relevant to interventions to change various behaviours related to health and well-being, inequality, and sustainability.
This qualification covers the essential models and theories relating to coaching and mentoring, and is ideal for managers, team leaders and supervisors with significant responsibility for coaching and mentoring as part of their day to day role.
The Career Start / Fundamental Pathway for practice nurses is a programme of three accredited modules.
To complete the Advanced Diploma or Graduate Certificate awards of this pathway, students must complete all 3 modules - Context of Nursing in General Practice, Preventative Interventions in General Practice Nursing and Monitoring and Management of Long Term Conditions - which follow the QNI Standards…
This short course follows the National cervical screening training guidelines and is delivered via blended learning, i.e.
one day in university and one day e-learning.
This apprenticeship enables students to develop the knowledge, professional skills and personal behaviours required to become a fully qualified Chartered Manager.
Our Chartered Surveyor Degree Apprenticeship within Quantity Surveying has been designed for those who are already within the industry that wish to develop their skills and knowledge and for those new to the industry who wish to qualify as a Chartered Surveyor whilst working full time.
The BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering Degree Apprenticeship at Northumbria University offers a unique opportunity to gain hands-on experience while studying a professionally accredited course.
This module is for those who are considering a future career in Primary Care/General Practice Nursing.
The module is aimed at supporting those either in pre-employment in any field of nursing i.e., Pre-registration nurses in Year 2 or 3, or those who are already qualified and wishing to move to Primary Care/General Practice Nursing.
Successful completion of all components of this module will lead to the achievement of a recordable prescribing qualification of Community Practitioner Prescriber with the Nursing and Midwifery Council.
This will permit you to prescribe from the Community Practitioner Formulary within your healthcare role where your employer/organisation supports this.
The Community Specialist Practice Qualification (SPQ) Higher Apprenticeship programme is designed to equip Postgraduates with the skills required for Community Specialist Practice.
The Higher Apprenticeship programme is available full time (54 weeks) or part time (106 weeks) with four pathways available: District Nursing (DN), General Practice Nursing (GPN), Adult Social Care Nursing (ASCN) and Community…
This degree apprenticeship was developed in collaboration with our construction partners, to meet the requirements of a national contractor market, delivered mainly online with a blended approach.
It will educate and train those in Construction Quantity Surveyor roles across the UK with Level 3 qualifications to progress to graduate level.
This short course follows the National Immunisation core training guidelines and is delivered via face to face sessions.
Participants on this CPD course will achieve a clear understanding of the current principles of disclosure, and will develop the knowledge and skills required to organise, manage, and present investigations of fraud.
This online event will update health and social care professionals on law and practice relating to the Mental Capacity Act 2005, its Deprivation of Liberty Safeguards, and the forthcoming Liberty Protection Safeguards.
For those who practice as DoLS Best Interests Assessors, it will meet the statutory requirement for annual refresher training established by The Mental Capacity  (Deprivation of Liberty:…
This one day masterclass will concentrate on the management of diabetic foot health.
The masterclass in diabetes mellitus will build upon you existing professional and healthcare knowledge to improve the quality of care you are able to deliver to people living with, or at risk of diabetes.
This masterclass is aimed at nurses new to undertaking ear care consultations and reviews.
It will cover the assessment of the patients ear symptoms and the management options for those with excessive cerumen.
This module is designed to equip you with the knowledge and skills to effectively contribute to the care of individuals with familial hypercholesterolemia.
Do balance sheets make your mind boggle?
Would you like to gain a better understanding of finance within your organisation?
Designed for managers with a non-financial background, this course aims to equip you with the skills you need to better understand the financial implications of your decisions and improve the financial performance of your organisation.
This is a module focused upon practice and skills acquisition, particularly in the areas of the development of the admission profile and early interview.
An NHS Continuing Workforce Development module that provides an introduction to the process of history taking and assessing the physical manifestations of acute and chronic health issues.
This half day session is aimed at all immunising staff who regularly administer vaccines as part of their role.
This session will provide contemporary updates on all vaccine related issues in accordance to national guidance and developments
This 2 day masterclass will examine how/when/what contraceptive methods can be commenced in a routine and post emergency contraception situation.
This session is aimed at nurses new to undertaking blood result reviews.
It will cover what tests are appropriate in primary care according to the evidence, safety issues for the patient and staff member, common blood test requests and optimal results, how to manage those outside of optimal ranges.
The course is particularly relevant for coaches at Level 1-2 in sports such as soccer, rugby, basketball and hockey, as well as teachers of PE in secondary schools.
The course is also very appropriate for sport coaching students and others who might progress to further training and become accredited sports performance analysts.
The purpose of this course is to provide an understanding of sport and exercise nutrition and facilitate your ability and confidence to match different foods and meals to the advice.
The course content is structured to answer the following questions:

What are the general daily nutrition requirements for an active person?
What should you eat before training or competition to aid performance?
When…
The level 1 ISAK Anthropometry course is designed for sport and exercise students, nutritionists, sports rehabilitators and physiotherapists and is a requirement in order to undertake body composition analysis.
This course has been developed to provide learners with a foundation of environmental and sustainability knowledge to build upon.
Leadership and Management - Workforce Development
This course is designed for middle to senior managers in private and public sector organisations, introduces participants to two powerful business and operational excellence strategies, developed to transform business processes.
This masterclass will examine the requirements of the annual review of those clients with learning disabilities within your practice, across the spectrum of severity.
This session will be delivered by a GP with specialist interest and a CCG lead role in learning disability and mental health.
This course is aimed at registered practitioners who will be assisting women with menopausal symptoms and their management.
This module aligns to the knowledge, skills and attributes required to demonstrate clinical competence as a first contact practitioner (FCP) within primary care.
Through a combination of university and placement learning, you will develop advanced skills in clinical communication, assessment, diagnosis, and complex condition management using a personalised care approach.
The session will cover the anatomy & physiology of the relevant body area - hips, knees, ankles and feet.
The session will cover the anatomy & physiology of the relevant body area - hands, wrists, elbows and shoulder.
The masterclass update for Non medical prescribing  will build upon you existing professional and healthcare knowledge to improve the quality of care you are able to deliver.
The Non Medical Prescribing module consists of 38 days of prescribing preparation.
The module can be studied at level 6 (degree) or at level 7 (masters).
Your choice may be dependant on a number of factors e.g.
whether it is integrated into a post graduate programme (level 7 study) or whether you are undertaking as a stand alone module and already have an academic profile.
The FdSc Nursing Associate Apprenticeship at Northumbria University provides a structured work-based route into healthcare, allowing you to earn while you learn.
Designed to meet the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) standards, this course develops your skills in delivering safe, compassionate, and effective care across a range of healthcare settings.
Apprentices will learn about the philosophy and theoretical underpinnings of occupational therapy and occupational science, develop knowledge and skills in the workplace and engage with professional development requirements.
Our Operating Department Practitioner (ODP) Degree Apprenticeship equips students with the skills and knowledge required to provide care to patients during the three phases of perioperative practice.
This one day session will cover basic introduction to phlebotomy practice for those who have not undertaken this training previously.
A practical skills workshop is included.
A competency assessment document is provided for in-house competency assessment post course attendance.
This course would suit healthcare practitioners who are interested in assuming responsibility for learning and assessment in their practice setting.
This apprenticeship is an academic and professional programme jointly delivered by officers from Durham Constabulary and academic staff from across Northumbria University.
This apprenticeship is an academic and professional programme jointly delivered by officers from Northumbria Police and academic staff from across Northumbria University.
The PG Cert Professional Social Work Practice is a well-established route to academically accredited continuing professional development.
It reflects a long and fruitful partnership with health and social care employers within the Northeast region to co-produce a flexible, unified framework which supports workforce planning and development, and enhances practitioner employability in advanced roles.…
Mersey Care NHS Foundation Trust and Northumbria University are proud to present a four-day course on the principle and practises of Restorative Just Culture, which is also part of the learning encouraged in the NHS plan; We are the NHS: People Plan 2020/21 – action for us all.
Our Professional Practice in Health framework provides learners with a structured approach to continuing workforce development allowing professionals looking to develop their practice to undertake accredited modules and work towards a degree, masters, graduate certificate or post-graduate certificate over an extended period.
The modules included within the framework can also be undertaken as single…
Our Adult Nurse Degree Apprenticeship provides an 18-Month Work-Based route to complete a BSc Hons in Nursing Science / Registered Nurse (Adult)
Our Child Nurse Degree Apprenticeship provides an 18-Month Work-Based route to complete a BSc Hons in Nursing Science / Registered Nurse (Child)
This half-day workshop is designed to equip school and education leaders with the knowledge, strategies, and tools they need to safely and effectively integrate AI into their institutions.
This workshop is designed to enable public sector leaders to ‘get underneath the bonnet’ of AI and understand the potential benefits and risks for their organisation.
This module is suitable for Nurses (Children’s, Adult, Learning Disability, and Mental Health) and Midwives wishing to return to the professional register and re-register with the NMC and for those unable to meet re-validation requirements.
The Senior Leader Higher Apprenticeship is an innovative work-based programme delivered part-time on a flexible and blended delivery pattern, providing an excellent learning and development platform for aspiring or existing senior managers and leaders.
The Senior People Professional Higher Apprenticeship is an innovative work-based programme delivered part-time on a flexible and blended delivery pattern, providing an excellent learning and development platform for aspiring or existing senior managers and leaders.
This high-quality, degree apprenticeship programme has been designed for those wishing to enhance their career prospects through engaging in work-based learning: providing opportunities to develop their understanding of social work practice and capitalising on opportunities for applied learning within the context of their employment.
The Solicitor Higher Apprenticeship will encourage you to develop specialist legal knowledge and gain a critical understanding of how to apply this knowledge in different settings and for specific audiences.
Simultaneously, it will enable you to apply this knowledge within your workplace; to develop and enhance your professional practice.
As a graduate of the Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (SCPHN) programme at the University of Northumbria, you will build on your existing nursing knowledge to advance your evidence-based practice.
This course provides training to cover skills development in the relevant legal contexts assessed in SQE2 as well as covering assessment technique through a combination of face-to-face teaching and online supplementary materials.
This is a 5 day short course (non-accredited) that supports the care certificate for HCA's new to general practice.
This course follows the care certificate chapters and content.
Through a combination of practical workshop days and distance learning, the UKSCA endorsed L3 S&C Trainer Diploma aims to prepare, develop and motivate aspiring S&C coaches, whilst introducing practitioners to the key principles of strength and conditioning.
This module provides unique, cutting-edge training in applied statistical methods and data science.
It builds on examples of online delivery elsewhere, along with models and methods developed within the module teaching team to provide you with unique experience in using statistical evidence to inform policymaking.
Upon completion of this module, you will develop capacity to:
a.
understand and explain…
This masterclass will address key issues relating to sexual violence and abuse, including gender-based violence, with a focus on the role of health professionals in recognising, responding to, and supporting those affected (service users and colleagues).
This 2 day course covers an introduction to wound care management, with day 1 covering basic techniques and day 2 covering advanced techniques.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/business-services/research-and-consultancy:
DISCOVER HOW YOUR BUSINESS CAN BENEFIT FROM OUR SPECIALIST SPACE RESEARCH AND INSIGHTS.
WORKING TOGETHER TO TAKE ON TOMORROW.
THE NORTH EAST’S CENTRAL ROLE IN TRANSFORMING THE UK’S
HOUSING LANDSCAPE.
AN INTERDISCIPLINARY RESEARCH GROUP EXPLORING THE IMPACT OF NUTRITION ON HUMAN HEALTH AND PERFORMANCE.
Our partnerships and business development team can help you to access expertise from our academics, unlock funding streams to support R&D, and help ensure you have the right skills in your team to navigate challenges and capitalise on opportunities.
For more information about how you can work with us, please get in touch or call 0191 215 6300.
THE NEXT GENERATION OF SPACE INNOVATION
ENERGY - DELIVERING A CLEANER & GREENER FUTURE
AI AND TECH
CENTRE FOR HEALTH AND SOCIAL EQUITY (CHASE)
NESST
North East Space Skills and Technology Centre
DOCTORAL TRAINING PARTNERSHIPS & TRAINING
ARROW
Fully funded innovation support for North East Businesses
Enquire Now
Discover how your business can benefit today.
IP AND COMMERCIALISATION
KNOWLEDGE TRANSFER PARTNERSHIPS
CENTRE FOR CRIME & POLICING
CREATIVE FUSE NORTH EAST
SPIN - SYNTHESIS AND POLYMER INNOVATION FACILITY
Centre for Doctoral Training - Renewable Energy Northeast Universities Plus (ReNU+)
Centre for Doctoral Training in Citizen-Centred Artificial Intelligence (CCAI)
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships
IP and Commercialisation
EQUIPMENT & FACILITY HIRE
RESEARCH & INNOVATION
EDUCATION & TRAINING
UNIVERSITY NEWSPAPER
read more news VIEW MORE EVENTS
03 Oct 2024
North East’s top business leader award for academic with space vision
Professor John Woodward has been named the North E...
02 Oct 2024
UNIVERSITIES FOR NORTH EAST ENGLAND
North East England’s five universities to strength...
30 Sep 2024
Northumbria academic receives prestigious award for space research
A Northumbria University space researcher has rece...
19 Aug 2024
NESST vision achieves regional business recognition for Pro-Vice-Chanc...
Judges at the North East Business Awards have name...
12 Aug 2024
£2.5m Award Funds Project To Encourage More People Into Health Researc...
A regional consortium has secured £2.5million fund...
11 Jul 2024
Insights North East to help the North East make the most of devolution
On 24 June, Insights North East (INE) held its ann...
08 Jul 2024
Use of AI in diabetes education achieves national recognition
The development of a new artificial intelligence-b...
01 Jul 2024
Northumbria University launches summer activities to support delivery...
Northumbria University has launched a schedule of...
27 Jun 2024
Keeping up with technology in the workplace
Northumbria University, Newcastle, has hosted an i...
11 Jun 2024
Northumbria achieves highest ever world ranking for sustainability
Northumbria University has been ranked among the t...
04 Jun 2024
Event connects North East partners to optimise devolution opportunity
The second Insights North East annual conference c...
03 Jun 2024
Read the latest issue of Northumbria University News: Summer 2024 edit...
The Summer 2024 edition of Northumbria University’...
07 May 2024
Why Small Business Matters Podcast talks to guests from cross-universi...
Established by Newcastle Business School’s Help to...
12 Mar 2024
£11m funding to expand access to renewable energy research in North Ea...
World-leading research from three North East unive...
15 Oct 2023
Top award for physicist’s research breakthrough
A Northumbria University academic is part of a tea...
10 Oct 2023
New research centre driving economic growth and sustainability
Northumbria University is one of six northern inst...
09 Oct 2023
North East universities working together to support ambitious business...
The Innovating Together - Universities in the Nort...
20 Sep 2023
£1 million funding award supports leading new medical research at Nort...
Two renowned biomedical researchers have been awar...
Research with ambulance service aims to support callers experiencing l...
Experts from Northumbria University have joined fo...
30 Aug 2023
Northumbria University retains HR Excellence in Research Award
Northumbria is one of a select number of UK instit...
22 Aug 2023
Students support council mission to promote quality living in later li...
A North East organisation that aims to help Newcas...
24 Jul 2023
Funding for particle research could speed up disease diagnosis
A Northumbria university academic has been awarded...

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/business-services/contact-us:
Any call into any of the above service will be recorded for training and quality purposes.
If you do not wish your call to be recorded, please mention this to the Advisor who answers your call, and the recording will be switched off.
Any calls that are recorded will be automatically deleted after 6 months.
Complete the form below  with your enquiry or to join our mailing list to keep up to date with the latest, news, events and projects.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/business-services/business-events:
BUSINESS & WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT EVENTS
Whether you want to develop your workforce, require guidance on how to futureproof your business or generally want to find out more about the benefits of collaborating with us we're here to help.
Can't find an event you're interested in below?
Give our Sales and Business Development Team a call on 0191 215 6300 for a chat about our services or complete our contact us form so we can keep you up-to-date via e-mail.
Register your interest in future events below
Aspiring Advanced Clinical Practitioner - Online Event
Social Work Degree Apprenticeship - Online Information Event
Advanced Clinical Practitioner Masterclass - Multi-professional advanced practitioner workplace supervision
Public Lectures, Performances & Exhibitions
REGISTER YOUR INTEREST FOR OUR FUTURE EVENTS
CONTACT US

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/continuing-professional-development-short-courses-specialist-training:
Northumbria University offers a wide range of accredited and non-accredited short courses, specialist training and Continuing Professional Development (CPD) programmes.
These are delivered locally, nationally and internationally, for individuals or employers with single or multiple learners.
For employers with group requirements we can provide on-site customised CPD programmes, tailored to meet your specific needs.
Our CPD courses are based on the ground-breaking research of our academic experts.
By increasing skills and knowledge and introducing new ways of thinking and working we create impact in performance for you and your staff.
Help to Grow: Management
Professional Practice in Health Framework
DISCOVER MORE →
BESPOKE CPD COURSES
Your search returned 77 results .

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/business-services/engage-with-us/degree-apprenticeships:
HIGHER AND DEGREE APPRENTICESHIPS
Northumbria University is a leading Higher and Degree Apprenticeship training provider.
With our ever-growing Higher and Degree Apprenticeship portfolio , we offer a verse range of apprenticeships across many sectors, so whether you have taken on a new recruit or have an employee you would like to upskill or see progress in your organisation, our extensive portfolio provides the perfect opportunity for employers to develop and retain their workforce whilst employees gain a full degree, or degree-level, qualification.
Discover more about how Higher and Degree Apprenticeships work by watching our What are Higher and Degree Apprenticeships video or learn the difference between the two with our frequently asked questions .
APPRENTICESHIP COURSES
REGISTER YOUR INTEREST →
Register your interest in Higher and Degree Apprenticeships and we'll keep you informed about our expanding portfolio of courses.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/business-services/engage-with-us/equipment-and-facility-hire:
Use our state-of-the-art equipment and facilities to bridge the gap between research and development.
We’ll help you with scientific and technical testing and analysis, product development, prototyping or creative media production.
Choose Northumbria to host your event and take your pick from our unique range of rooms and buildings.
We have everything from elegant period architecture and fantastic sports facilities to cutting-edge design and technology-enabled spaces.
Our dedicated team of event management experts is on hand to ensure your event makes the right impact.
Conference and External Hire
Kit and Equipment
NMC Competence Test Centre

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/business-services/recruit-our-students-graduates:
Northumbria Graduate Futures works in partnership with you, connecting you with talented Northumbria students and graduates.
Our experienced employer facing team will work with you to understand your recruitment needs and help you to meet your business objectives.
Recruit our Students
Connect with our Students
Talk to Us
Employer Case Studies
Why Northumbria?
Northumbria is a research-intensive university with a proud heritage of making a difference to individuals and to society.
We work in partnership in the North East and London, the UK and globally.
Northumbria has over 38,000 students from a diverse range of backgrounds and nationalities, studying a wide range of programmes.
With over 233,000 Northumbria Alumni worldwide.
Our students and graduates are consistently targeted by top graduate recruiters in the UK and internationally.
Northumbria is ranked in the top 40 universities in the UK in The Guardian University Guide 2024 and Complete University Guide 2024.
Northumbria was awarded University of the Year in the Times Higher Education Awards 2022.
Strategy 2030 for Northumbria includes the strategic ambitions that every on-campus undergraduate student will benefit from experiential learning and real-world industry experience as part of their studies, enhancing their post-university prospects.
Talk to Us to find out more.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/business-services/education-and-training/resources-for-business:
We have a long and rich history across
a range of sectors, including Architecture, Built Environment and Construction,
Health and Social Care, Leadership and Management, Legal and Finance, Safety
and Sustainability, Engineering and Manufacturing and Sport and Wellbeing.
Here at Northumbria we are fortunate to have a dedicated team to specifically work with organisations to
understand their requirement for skills.
We’re also at hand to support workforce planning, ensuring a seamless
process throughout.
We have extensive support within the
university for learners on these programmes with workplace coaches, dedicated
student support teams and resources and fantastic facilities.
Work with us to realize the potential
of your existing talent within your organisation through upskilling and
reskilling, helping you attract and retain talent within your organisation.
We offer workforce development opportunities
both in the North East and nationally to deliver flexible blended education
training programmes.
Spotlight Case Study:
Advance your career with a NEBOSH Qualification
Spotlight Insights Article:
The key HR challenges for 2023
Case Studies and Insights
Film Library
Discover More →
THE MISSING LINK TO BUILDING TRUST AT WORK?
THE KEY HR CHALLENGES FOR 2023
HOW TO ATTRACT, DEVELOP AND SUSTAIN A THRIVING WORKFORCE
NORTHUMBRIA NAMED AS UK'S BEST UNIVERSITY
AMBITIOUS PLANS TO DEVELOP CENTRE FOR HEALTH
BUSINESS CLINIC HITS KEY MILESTONES
NORTHUMBRIA UNIVERSITY SCORES KNOWLEDGE EXCHANGE
Upcoming Events

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/business-services/engage-with-us/research/knowledge-transfer-partnerships:
A Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) with
Northumbria University provides
a mechanism for organisations to plan and deliver ambitious, strategic
projects in collaboration
with our Academics.
KTPs help embed new knowledge and implement ways of
working that make a big impact on competitiveness, productivity and
profits.
By working with a talented graduate or postgraduate, guided by leading
university specialists, organisations can introduce new approaches, develop new products, processes,
and services efficiently and effectively.
Businesses who participate in
a KTP consistently report wide-ranging benefits including improved business
performance, competitive advantage, increased productivity and access to new
markets, including export.
If you’re interested in finding out more about how a Knowledge
Transfer Partnership with Northumbria University and how it could benefit your
organisation, get in touch directly with the team at ktp@northumbria.ac.uk .
We’ll help you explore your
options and find the right solution.
The KTP programme marks its 50th year in 2025 has a long track
record of success.
The scheme is led and funded by Innovate
UK, the UK’s national innovation agency.
Innovate UK and supports
business-led innovation in all sectors, technologies and UK regions.
Businesses do not pay the full cost of the KTP, with a proportion of a project’s costs funded by Innovate UK.
CUSTOMER-CENTRIC INNOVATION
CASE STUDY →
DEVELOPING A NEW POLYMER TO SUPPORT NEW APPLICATIONS
ADVANCED MATERIALS AND CUSTOM MANUFACTURING DIVISIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF NEW INK PRODUCT FOR GLOBAL MARKET
#TakeonTomorrow
The future is there to be won by organisations who find ways to turn today’s possibilities into tomorrow’s competitive edge.
Consultancy
Northumbria’s consultancy services put our expertise to work tackling the questions or problems you’re facing.
We bring an independent and knowledgeable perspective to solve business challenges.
Lets Take on Tomorrow Together
We can help your business and your people to build new skills, new knowledge and new ways of thinking.
Talk to our Business Development team to discover the difference Northumbria University can make.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/planning-your-career/services-for-employers/connect-with-our-students:
Connect with talented students or graduates from specific cohorts or academic disciplines via an event or consultancy project or live brief and maximise your on-campus engagement.
Northumbria University is home to 16 academic departments .
Whatever you’re looking for we can connect you with students and recent graduates to help take your business to the next level.
Northumbria’s experiential learning initiatives bring together the worlds of industry and academia to develop the employability skills of our students and graduates.
Events
Projects
Social

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/research:
We work in partnership in the North East and London, the UK and
globally.
We change lives through education and research, tackling the global challenges of our age to transform society.
Computerised Society & Digital Citizens
Cultural & Creative Industries
Energy, Materials & Systems
Future of Ice on Earth
Microbial Biotechnology
Microbiome Exploration
Solar & Space Physics
Volunteering, Humanitarian Crises & Development
REF 2021
INTERDISCIPLINARY RESEARCH THEMES
ETHICS & INTEGRITY
RESEARCH PORTAL
Postgraduate Research Degrees
09 Apr 2025
Academy of Medical Sciences funds new research from emerging scientifi...
Two biomedical sciences researchers from Northumbr...
New study reveals Arabia’s ‘green past’ over the last 8 million years
A new study has revealed that one of the driest ar...
03 Apr 2025
Association for Art History Fellowship awarded to Professor Gavin Butt
Professor of Fine Art, Gavin Butt has been announc...
02 Apr 2025
Royal Statistical Society Honorary Fellowship for Northumbria academic
The Royal Statistical Society (RSS) has awarded a...
31 Mar 2021
Evidence of Antarctic glacier’s tipping point confirmed for first time
Researchers have confirmed for the first time that...
16 Mar 2021
New Northumbria University spinout – PulmoBioMed - to develop world-le...
Scientists at Northumbria University have worked w...
24 Mar 2021
Mapping Covid-19 - one year on
For the last year, academics from Northumbria Univ...
02 Mar 2021
Work begins on experimental Living Building
Construction has started on a building which could...

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/research/1/our-peaks-of-excellence:
We have a number of areas where our research is truly outstanding and is shaping knowledge and practice around the world.
We call these our Peaks of Research Excellence.
Focused and cohesive areas of outstanding research they are a vital part of our vibrant research landscape.
Collaborating with external partners is a vital part of the research process and we encourage existing and new potential partners to reach out.
View our Peaks of Excellence brochure

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/research/academic-departments:
The Department of Applied Sciences contributes primarily to the University’s research themes in Cellular & Molecular Sciences and Health & Lifestyle studies...
Architecture and the Built Environment is an essential part of the modern world.
From architecture, urban design, and global construction economics, to sustainability, building information modelling...
Research in the Department of Arts ranges from practice-led explorations in Fine Art and Performance to theoretical investigations of Visual and Material Culture, Cultural Management and Conservation...
We are living in a digital age where all of our lives are impacted by computer sciences and digital technologies, from cyber security and computational intelligence to games and visual effects...
From Antarctica to Africa, global warming to disaster risk reduction, Geography takes place on a truly global scale at Northumbria.
Research in this department is focused in three groups: Cold and Palaeo Environments...
Research in Humanities is divided across two distinct areas:  English (Literature, Language and Linguistics and Creative Writing) and History.
Alongside these research areas we also have our American Studies...
From robotics to photovoltaics, cosmic rays to smart materials, Mathematics, Physics and Electrical Engineering’s pioneering research focuses on a wide range of issues.
The department is divided into three groups: Sustainable...
Engineering is everywhere, from the buildings we live and work in to the products we use every day.
Mechanical and Construction Engineering explores a wide range of areas, including research into advanced materials, product development...
The subject diversity of Newcastle Business School, part of the Faculty of Business and Law, facilitates inter-discipline exchange of ideas and collaboration between staff across the functional business areas and departments...
The Law Department embraces diversity and breadth of research interests and outputs.
While the research flagship of the Department is the Centre for Evidence and Criminal Justice Studies...
We bring together innovative, inter-disciplinary research and experiential education in pursuit of the betterment of people, place, cultures, and societies.
Northumbria School of Design hosts the following research groups; Design Issues (Critical Design Discourses), Design Innovation and Research Methods, and Design Making...
The Department of Nursing, Midwifery & Health builds on a long history of high-quality research in public health and related fields; working closely with the Department of Healthcare and the Department of Social Work and Communities...
The Department of Psychology has an overarching theme of ‘Psychology of Health and Wellbeing’ that defines its research strategy.
Areas of research specialism are Brain Performance and Nutrition Research Centre...
Social Sciences research at Northumbria is concerned with analysing and explaining how the lives of individuals, societies and nations are being transformed by multi-level processes of change, from the global to the local...
The department includes over fifty members of staff, with most of us having come into the academic world following many years working in welfare services for individuals, families and communities provided by local authorities...
With a strong and thriving research culture the Department of Sport, Exercise and Rehabilitation specialises in research activity to address contemporaneous issues in health, performance and well-being.
Research Excellence Framework 2021

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/research/postgraduate-research-degrees/research-degrees:
Discover Research with Real Impact
Research at Northumbria
We Are Global
Living in the 21st Century, the world is getting smaller and becoming more connected every day.
At Northumbria University we recognise and respond to this fast paced, dynamic world and are operating on a global scale more than ever before.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/research/research-events:
8.30am
1pm - 2pm
The Great Hall
9.30am - 4pm
3pm - 4pm
National Army Museum
5.30pm - 6.30pm
UPCOMING RESEARCH SUPPORT & DEVELOPMENT EVENTS
For Northumbria Staff Only

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/research/idrts:
BACK TO RESEARCH
Northumbria's Interdisciplinary Research Themes (IDRTs) are central to the research landscape of Northumbria University.
These interdisciplinary communities of practice bring together expertise from across the University to address the pressing regional, societal and global challenges of this century and beyond.These communities operate at the intersections between departments, providing additionality to the high quality research being undertaken in departments and research groups.They offer unique platforms for new collaborations to emerge and deliver cutting-edge, impactful research and attract new funding opportunities.
View our 2025 IDRT Brochure | Energy Futures Network | IC3 | Integrated Health and Social Care
BIOFUTURES
EXTREME ENVIRONMENTS
GENDERED VIOLENCE AND ABUSE
GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT FUTURES
SPACE
URBAN FUTURES
WOMEN'S SPORT AND WELLBEING
6pm - 7pm

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/research/research-impact-at-northumbria:
Through excellent research, teaching and innovation the University is pledged to transforming lives and making a powerful contribution to social, cultural and economic development.
CULTURAL
ECONOMIC
EDUCATIONAL
ENVIRONMENTAL
HEALTH
LEGAL
POLITICAL
SOCIETAL
TECHNOLOGICAL

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/research/ref-2021:
Results from the Research Excellence Framework (REF2021) show Northumbria University with the biggest rise in research power ranking of any UK university.
Its research power ranking rose to 23 rd , having previously risen to 50 th in 2014 from 80 th in 2008, making Northumbria the sector’s largest riser in research power ranking for the second time.
Sustained progress by Northumbria has given the city of Newcastle a second research-intensive university, bringing a complementary set of research strengths to the city, and creating with Durham a Northern Research Powerhouse with the largest city-area concentration of researchers outside London.
Northumbria’s success is the result of a profound transformation over the last 15 years, combining research with existing areas of strength in relationships with business, skills, enterprise and innovation.
The full-time equivalent number of Northumbria researchers assessed as producing world-leading and internationally excellent research has jumped from 56 in 2008, to 207 in 2014 and 840 today.
At the same time, the quality and impact of research at Northumbria have risen significantly.
On Quality-related (QR) power it ranks 28 th , again with the biggest rise on this measure.
Professor Andrew Wathey CBE, Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive of Northumbria, said: “ Alongside a second major leap in research power, the University’s results have improved in quality, in both absolute and relative terms, and its impact ratings have surged ahead.
This outcome moves us clearly into territory formerly the preserve of the Russell Group of universities and other research-intensive institutions.
Northumbria is the first modern university to cross the clear blue water that separated the old and the new parts of the sector, and others are following.
“Already a global player in education, admitting students from over 137 countries, Northumbria is now well placed to be a global player in research, acting as an ambassador for the North East".
“The city of Newcastle, combined with Durham, is now host to the largest concentration of researchers outside London creating a northern research powerhouse.
This is important for the economy of the North East, for inward investment – public and private – for future collaboration between the universities and business, and for the levelling up impacts of research.”
Northumbria’s transformation demonstrates the power of research to effect profound changes in a university’s stature and outlook, and to deliver benefit across the full range of its activities, including the strength of its contributions to the economy and society.
It also demonstrates trends found more broadly across the REF2021 exercise: growth outside London and the South East, showing that levelling up is already working; a rise in impact, reflecting Northumbria’s exceptional university-business collaboration, and more broadly showing that Britain is already an innovation nation.
Northumbria has recorded exceptional results, with growing strength across all subjects.
It is ranked in the top 10 for research power in seven of the thirteen areas in which it entered the REF, and in the top 26 in all areas.
In Geography Northumbria’s research power is second only to Oxford, while in Sport and Exercise Sciences its research is rated seventh for impact.
Allied Health are joint first for research environment, Social Work and Policy third for research power behind only London School of Economics and Edinburgh, and History top 10 for research output quality.
Northumbria has submitted 1095 staff across thirteen Units of Assessment (UoA) to the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021.
This submission reflects our research across four Faculties and nineteen Departments, incorporating traditional disciplines, such as English and Engineering, modern disciplines, such as Business and Design, and professional disciplines, such as Architecture and Nursing.
Find out more by clicking on the Units of Assessment below.
What we call 'research power' is the overall quality of our submission (the 'grade point average' [GPA]) multiplied by the full-time equivalent (FTE) number of researchers submitted.
ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONS, DENTISTRY, NURSING AND PHARMACY
UoA 3
ARCHITECTURE, BUILT ENVIRONMENT & PLANNING
UoA 13
ART AND DESIGN: HISTORY, PRACTICE & THEORY
UoA 32
Other NU Research Links
BUSINESS & MANAGEMENT STUDIES
UoA 17
COMPUTER SCIENCE AND INFORMATICS
UoA 11
UoA 12
ENGLISH LANGUAGE & LITERATURE
UoA 27
GEOGRAPHY & ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES
UoA 14
HISTORY
UoA 28
UoA 18
PSYCHOLOGY, PSYCHIATRY & NEUROSCIENCE
UoA 4
SOCIAL WORK & SOCIAL POLICY
UoA 20
SPORT & EXERCISE SCIENCES, LEISURE & TOURISM
UoA 24
IMPACT CASE STUDIES

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/research/partners-and-collaborators:
Northumbria’s global, regional and cultural partnerships aim to leverage the impact of research to address economic and societal issues as well as the urgent global challenges facing humanity such as climate change.
Through collaboration with businesses, cultural organisations, government and institutions around the world, Northumbria aims to work innovatively with others to advance progress in a research-driven way.
Find out more about some of our key partnerships below.
In addition to these, there lots of exciting partnerships across our Departments.
See our Departmental research pages for further information about collaborations across our research groups.
WANT TO WORK WITH US?
GET IN TOUCH NOW
COLLABORATE WITH US
We deliver consultancy research for a range of international cultural partners.
MULTIDISCIPLINARY RESEARCH
Our themes are aligned to societal and global challenges to deliver cutting-edge, impactful research.
RESEARCH IMPACT
See how our research is contributing to social, cultural and economic development.
BRITISH ANTARCTIC SURVEY
CAPE PROJECT
INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF RED CROSS AND RED CRESCENT SOCIETIES
MET OFFICE
MOZILLA FOUNDATION
RYDER ARCHITECTURE
INTERNATIONAL CENTRE FOR CLIMATE CHANGE AND DEVELOPMENT
DYNAMO NORTH EAST
HUB FOR BIOTECHNOLOGY IN THE BUILT ENVIRONMENT
NATIONAL CENTRE FOR ACADEMIC AND CULTURAL EXCHANGE
FUSE CENTRE FOR TRANSLATIONAL RESEARCH IN PUBLIC HEALTH
RENEWABLE ENERGY NORTHEAST UNIVERSITIES
INTERNATIONAL CENTRE FOR CONNECTED CONSTRUCTION (IC3)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/research/professional-support-staff:
Research and Innovation Services (RIS) provides dedicated, specialist support to Northumbria’s research community throughout the research grant lifecycle to help sustain Northumbria’s position as a research-intensive modern university.
Support includes sourcing potential funding; aiding proposal development; providing guidance through the authorisation process; monitoring project spend; and assisting production of the final report.
RIS designs and administers research-related training programmes for staff, offers support for the commercialisation of research, co-ordinates the University’s ethical procedures and works with senior colleagues to ensure the delivery of coherent research-based policy and strategy.
The Service also supports the University’s Research Excellence Framework (REF) submission and co-ordinates ways in which the benefits and impact of Northumbria's research are shared with the wider public.
RIS provides professional support for strategy, policy and academic delivery of research and innovation; through a combination of central and Faculty-aligned provision, it supports academic colleagues and postgraduate researchers.
Explore our teams and find key contacts below.
The RIS Executive Team lead and manage the RIS Service.
Together, they work with University and Faculty leadership teams to implement the research & knowledge exchange delivery plan, respond to external requirements, and provide support to academic colleagues and the broader RIS team.
They also work across the University to support broader requirements such as Health & Safety, Sustainability and EDI.
Jenny Taylor Executive Director of Research and Innovation Services Director for Economic Development jenny2.taylor@northumbria.ac.uk As Executive Director of Research and Innovation Services, Jenny leads the RIS team, working closely with the Pro Vice Chancellor (Research & Knowledge Exchange) to shape and implement the Research & Knowledge Exchange Strategic Delivery Plans, and works with external organisations such as funders and government departments to understand and influence the research and knowledge exchange policy environment.
Jenny also leads the development of strategic place based innovation and economic regeneration projects for the university identifying and accessing appropriate funding opportunities.
Michael Parker Director of Knowledge Exchange michael2.parker@northumbria.ac.uk Michael leads the research impact and IP commercialisation teams and is responsible for the development and implementation of University-wide approaches to support the generation of impact.
This encompasses engaged research, impact in research assessment, public and policy engagement, and the commercialisation of intellectual property.
The Impact and IP commercialisation teams work with colleagues across the university to evidence their research impact and help identify, protect, and exploit any intellectual property from their research.
Andrew Poole Head of Research Quality and Compliance / RIS Lead for REF2029 a.poole@northumbria.ac.uk Andrew is Head of the Research Quality and Compliance team within RIS.
The team works with Principal Investigators across the University to manage and deliver our externally funded research projects, providing expert advice, guidance and compliance support to our grant holders.
He recently managed the implementation of new pre- and post-award research management systems on behalf of Research and Innovations Services and is now leading the RIS team in preparation for REF2029.
Andrew’s previous roles include Head of Grants
and Contracts and Head of Preparations for REF2021.
Jessica Holmes Head of Grants and Contracts jessica.holmes@northumbria.ac.uk Jess is the Head of Grants and Contracts and leads a team of Research Development Managers and Coordinators who are responsible for supporting academics to develop high-quality research proposals and secure external funding.
The team provides hands-on support to our academic colleagues, which includes supporting discussions regarding idea development, training delivery, funder engagement, strategic development of funding plans, critical feedback on applications, costings, navigating the approvals process and liaising with partners, as well as contributing to Funder Liaison Groups and Research Committees.
Rachel Williamson-Pears Director of Research Operations rachel.williamson-pears@northumbria.ac.uk Rachel joined RIS as Director of Research Operations in May 2024.
Laura Hutchinson Head of Research Development and Culture laura.hutchinson2@northumbria.ac.uk Laura Hutchinson is Head of Research Development and Culture which encompasses strategic planning and support for Faculties and School to deliver research funding ambitions.
Working closely with the Dean of Research Culture she is responsible for the delivery of the Research Culture Action Plan and enabling the growth of a vibrant, fair and inclusive research culture.
Elizabeth Savage Executive Assistant to Executive Director of RIS elizabeth.savage@northumbria.ac.uk Elizabeth provides executive support to Jenny Taylor and Michael Parker.
Please contact Elizabeth for diary availability, matters relating to the RIS Directors and to inform of any upcoming deadlines that require sign off.
Jenny Taylor
Executive Director of Research and Innovation Services
Director for Economic Development
jenny2.taylor@northumbria.ac.uk
As Executive Director of Research and Innovation Services, Jenny leads the RIS team, working closely with the Pro Vice Chancellor (Research & Knowledge Exchange) to shape and implement the Research & Knowledge Exchange Strategic Delivery Plans, and works with external organisations such as funders and government departments to understand and influence the research and knowledge exchange policy environment.
Michael Parker
Director of Knowledge Exchange
michael2.parker@northumbria.ac.uk
Michael leads the research impact and IP commercialisation teams and is responsible for the development and implementation of University-wide approaches to support the generation of impact.
Andrew Poole
Head of Research Quality and Compliance / RIS Lead for REF2029
a.poole@northumbria.ac.uk
Andrew is Head of the Research Quality and Compliance team within RIS.
Jessica Holmes
Head of Grants and Contracts
jessica.holmes@northumbria.ac.uk
Jess is the Head of Grants and Contracts and leads a team of Research Development Managers and Coordinators who are responsible for supporting academics to develop high-quality research proposals and secure external funding.
Rachel Williamson-Pears
Director of Research Operations
rachel.williamson-pears@northumbria.ac.uk
Rachel joined RIS as Director of Research Operations in May 2024.
Laura Hutchinson
Head of Research Development and Culture
laura.hutchinson2@northumbria.ac.uk
Laura Hutchinson is Head of Research Development and Culture which encompasses strategic planning and support for Faculties and School to deliver research funding ambitions.
Elizabeth Savage
Executive Assistant to Executive Director of RIS
elizabeth.savage@northumbria.ac.uk
Elizabeth provides executive support to Jenny Taylor and Michael Parker.
The Research Development and Culture team enable a broad portfolio of activity which includes: Research development activity supporting researcher and Faculties to develop their research ideas, and funding plans; sharing funder intelligence through briefings and papers, and supporting Funder Liaison groups.
Research culture activity and the delivery of our research culture action plan.
Researcher development events and training with a particular focus on our early career researcher community.
Research communications, working closely with our central Marketing and Communications service  to coordinate key research events and news.
The Research Development and Culture team enable a broad portfolio of activity which includes:
Research Development Managers (RDMs) Research Development Managers (RDMs) provide specialist expertise in relation to the domestic and international research funding, work closely with a variety of research funders, academics and their non-academic partners and provide professional project management skills to catalyse and coordinate activity to enable the development and submission of strategic and large value collaborative funding proposals.
RDMs are primarily funder-aligned, supporting strategic/complex funding opportunities, specifically in relation to their designated funders across the university.
For Horizon Europe Pillar 1 & 2 calls, and larger UKRI-wide calls, please contact the faculty-aligned Research Development Manager in the first instance.
David Young Research Development Manager david.g.young@northumbria.ac.uk Funder alignment: STFC, EPSRC, NERC Strategic/Faculty leadership support: Engineering &
Environment Ian Shovlin Research Development Manager ian.shovlin@northumbria.ac.uk Funder-alignment: AHRC & Leverhulme Trust Strategic/Faculty leadership support: Arts, Design &
Social Sciences Andrew Latimer Research Development Manager andrew.latimer@northumbria.ac.uk Funder-alignment: Research England, UKRI cross-council,
Innovate UK, ARIA Strategic/Faculty leadership support: Business and Law Sarah Thomas Research Development Manager sarah3.thomas@northumbria.ac.uk Scott McGee Research Development Manager scott.mcgee@northumbria.ac.uk Funder alignment: MRC, BBSRC, Wellcome Trust Strategic/Faculty leadership support: Health & Life
Sciences Jack Palmer Research Development Manager jack.palmer@northumbria.ac.uk Funder alignment: NIHR, Nuffield Foundation, ISRF
Research Development Managers (RDMs)
Research Development Managers (RDMs) provide specialist expertise in relation to the domestic and international research funding, work closely with a variety of research funders, academics and their non-academic partners and provide professional project management skills to catalyse and coordinate activity to enable the development and submission of strategic and large value collaborative funding proposals.
David Young
Research Development Manager
Strategic/Faculty leadership support: Engineering &
Environment
Ian Shovlin
ian.shovlin@northumbria.ac.uk
Funder-alignment: AHRC & Leverhulme Trust
Strategic/Faculty leadership support: Arts, Design &
Social Sciences
Andrew Latimer
andrew.latimer@northumbria.ac.uk
Strategic/Faculty leadership support: Business and Law
Sarah Thomas
sarah3.thomas@northumbria.ac.uk
Scott McGee
scott.mcgee@northumbria.ac.uk
Funder alignment: MRC, BBSRC, Wellcome Trust
Strategic/Faculty leadership support: Health & Life
Sciences
Jack Palmer
jack.palmer@northumbria.ac.uk
Funder alignment: NIHR, Nuffield Foundation, ISRF
This team develops and delivers learning and development activities and online resources for researchers across all career stages.
Northumbria staff can access and register onto upcoming activities on the research development events calenda r and research development intranet pages .
Samantha
King Researcher Development and Culture Manager samantha.king@northumbria.ac.uk Working
collaboratively with Professional Support Services and academic departments,
Sam commissions, develops and delivers a range of learning and development
activities and online resources related to researcher skills development.
Supporting academics across all career stages, these activities and resources
are designed to build collaborations, enrich skills, foster talents and to support
people to reach their full potential here at Northumbria and wide in the wider
world.
Edan Pickering Research Culture & Development Coordinator edan3.pickering@northumbria.ac.uk Edan supports the organisation and delivery of researcher development activities for academics across all career stages at Northumbria University.
These opportunities provide academics with the skills and knowledge to enhance their careers.
Edan also supports the provision of online resources, including accessible training videos and self-learn modules and is responsible for updating and maintaining the University's Researcher Development events calendar .
Grainne O'Hare Research Culture and Development Administrator grainne.ohare@northumbria.ac.uk Grainne joined the Policy Team in April 2024 and supports researcher development activity.
Samantha
King
Researcher Development and Culture Manager
samantha.king@northumbria.ac.uk
Working
collaboratively with Professional Support Services and academic departments,
Sam commissions, develops and delivers a range of learning and development
activities and online resources related to researcher skills development.
Edan Pickering
Research Culture & Development Coordinator
edan3.pickering@northumbria.ac.uk
Edan supports the organisation and delivery of researcher development activities for academics across all career stages at Northumbria University.
Grainne O'Hare
Research Culture and Development Administrator
grainne.ohare@northumbria.ac.uk
Grainne joined the Policy Team in April 2024 and supports researcher development activity.
Jessie Holleran Research Content and Communications Officer jessie.holleran@northumbria.ac.uk Jessie joined the Research Development and Culture team in November 2024, after moving from the Content team in GMB.
Prior to this role, Jessie spent 13 years at the BBC, where she developed a strong foundation in storytelling and audience engagement.
Jessie is responsible for producing and managing content that highlights the university’s research strengths, supports funding and collaboration opportunities, and enhances the visibility of research activity across digital and print platforms.
They work closely with academic and professional colleagues to ensure communications are clear, compelling, and aligned with institutional goals.
Jessie Holleran
jessie.holleran@northumbria.ac.uk
Jessie joined the Research Development and Culture team in November 2024, after moving from the Content team in GMB.
The Grants and Contracts team, comprising of the Business Development Team and Pre and Post Award Coordinators and Administrators, offers support for research grant applications from ideas right through to submission.
This includes supporting discussions regarding idea development, training delivery, funder engagement, strategic development of funding plans, critical feedback on applications, costings, navigating the approvals process and liaising with partners.
Business Development Team: Nick Stephenson Business Development Coordinator (Operations Team Lead &
CPD Specialist) nick.j.stephenson@northumbria.ac.uk Anna Moroney Business Development Coordinator (Degree Apprenticeships
Specialist) anna.moroney@northumbria.ac.uk Ann Conway Business Development Coordinator ann.conway@northumbria.ac.uk Lucy Pedley Business Development Coordinator l.pedley@northumbria.ac.uk Peter Cragg Business Development Coordinator (Consultancy Specialist) p.cragg@northumbria.ac.uk Svenja Nagel-Esen Business Development Coordinator (Collaborative and Contract
Research Specialist) svenja.nagel-esen@northumbria.ac.uk Meril Saji Research Contracts Coordinator meril.saji@northumbria.ac.uk Meril joined the Research Delivery Team in February 2025.
Tatiana  Sifaki Research Contracts Coordinator t.i.sifaki@northumbria.ac.uk Tatiana joined the Research Delivery Team in February 2025.
She has a Law degree from University of Sunderland, and she has further specialised with an LLM in International Commercial Law and a Postgraduate Diploma in Legal Practice from Northumbria University.
Business Development Team:
Nick Stephenson
Business Development Coordinator (Operations Team Lead &
CPD Specialist)
nick.j.stephenson@northumbria.ac.uk
Anna Moroney
Business Development Coordinator (Degree Apprenticeships
Specialist)
anna.moroney@northumbria.ac.uk
Ann Conway
Business Development Coordinator
ann.conway@northumbria.ac.uk
Lucy Pedley
l.pedley@northumbria.ac.uk
Peter Cragg
Business Development Coordinator (Consultancy Specialist)
p.cragg@northumbria.ac.uk
Svenja Nagel-Esen
Business Development Coordinator (Collaborative and Contract
Research Specialist)
svenja.nagel-esen@northumbria.ac.uk
Meril Saji
Research Contracts Coordinator
meril.saji@northumbria.ac.uk
Meril joined the Research Delivery Team in February 2025.
Tatiana  Sifaki
t.i.sifaki@northumbria.ac.uk
Tatiana joined the Research Delivery Team in February 2025.
Our Pre-Award team provides expert advice and guidance to researchers applying for externally funded research applications.
Pre-Award support includes the coordination of project costings, approvals, compliance checks, due diligence, and lay review.
Susan Duffy Pre Award Team Manager susan.duffy@northumbria.ac.uk Susan is Team Lead of the Pre Award Section and has worked
at the university for over 20 years and within Research approx 10 years so has
a good broad understanding of the Services supporting academics across the
university Departmental support: Law; Psychology; Marketing, Operations
& Systems - please contact Susan in the first instance.
Victoria Boon Pre-Award Development Officer victoria.boon@northumbria.ac.uk Funder alignment: Royal Society, UK Space Agency and European Space Agency Victoria provides support to researchers to develop and secure external research grants via the provision of specialist support at every stage of the pre-award process, including guidance on preparing/checking the components, structure and content of the proposal.
Carolyn Taylor Pre-Award Development Officer carolyn2.taylor@northumbria.ac.uk Carolyn provides support to researchers to develop and secure external research grants via the provision of specialist support at every stage of the pre-award process, including guidance on preparing/checking the components, structure and content of the proposal.
Funder alignments: British Academy, Academy of Medical Sciences, National Institutes of Health.
Steve Bremner Pre-Award Development Officer steve2.bremner@northumbria.ac.uk Departmental Support: Sports, Education and Rehabilitation (SER) Steve provides support to researchers to develop and secure external research grants via the provision of specialist support at every stage of the pre-award process, including guidance on preparing/checking the components, structure and content of the proposal, with a specific IDRT lens.
Daisy Winter Pre-Award Development Officer daisy3.winter@northumbria.ac.uk Carolyn provides support to researchers to develop and secure external research grants via the provision of specialist support at every stage of the pre-award process, including guidance on preparing/checking the components, structure and content of the proposal.
Sarah Agnew Pre-Award Coordinator sarah.agnew@northumbria.ac.uk Faculty Support: ADSS/HLS Departmental support: Arts; Design; Humanities; Nursing, Midwifery & Health Sarah provides support to academic staff across all 4 faculties.
Simon Cochrane Pre-Award Coordinator simon.j.cochrane@northumbria.ac.uk Departmental support: Social Sciences; Geography & Environmental Sciences; Social Work, Education and Community Wellbeing (SWECW).
Vira Levkivska Pre-Award Coordinator vira.levkivska@northumbria.ac.uk Departmental support: Applied Sciences; Architecture & Built Environment Maureen McCourt Pre-Award Coordinator maureen.mccourt@northumbria.ac.uk Faculty Support: EE Departmental support: Leadership & HRM; Accounting & Financial Management; Entrepreneurship & Innovation Strategy Maureen has provided support to academic staff across all 4 faculties.
Alex Okike Pre-Award Coordinator alex.okike@northumbria.ac.uk Departmental support: Computer and Information Sciences (CIS); Maths, Physics & Electrical Engineering (MPEE).
Alex has provided support to academic staff across all 4 faculties.
James Clay Pre-Award Coordinator james.clay@northumbria.ac.uk Andrew Pearce Pre-Award Coordinator andrew.pearce@northumbria.ac.uk Faculty Support: EE Departmental support: Mechanical & Construction Engineering (MCE) Andy has supported academic staff across all 4 faculties.
Tier 1 applications for external funding (typically under £25k) The team members below provide support and guidance to Tier 1 (typically under £25k) applications for external funding.
This support includes the coordination of project costings, approvals and compliance checks: Carol Bennett Pre-Award Administrator carol.bennett@northumbria.ac.uk Faculty support: Business & Law; Engineering & Environment Carol provides support to academic staff with external funding applications, specifically Business and Law (BL) and Engineering and Environment (EE) with Tier 1 funding.
Carol can provide support with costing in line with funder guidelines, institutional approval processes, Worktribe queries and submitting via external submission systems.
In addition, Carol assists with Departmental financial support via SAP and Coupa.
Carol has over twenty years' experience in Higher Education and has been part of Research and Innovation Services since 2013.
Jessica O'Donnell Pre-Award Administrator jessica2.odonnell@northumbria.ac.uk Faculty support: Arts, Design & Social Sciences; Health & Life Sciences Jessica provides support to academic staff for external funding applications and is the primary contact for Tier 1 funding for Arts, Design and Social Sciences (ADSS), and Health and Life Sciences (HLS).
Jessica can provide support with costing in-line with funder guidelines; institutional approval processes; Worktribe queries; and submitting via external submission systems.
Susan Duffy
Pre Award Team Manager
susan.duffy@northumbria.ac.uk
Susan is Team Lead of the Pre Award Section and has worked
at the university for over 20 years and within Research approx 10 years so has
a good broad understanding of the Services supporting academics across the
university
Departmental support: Law; Psychology; Marketing, Operations
& Systems - please contact Susan in the first instance.
Victoria Boon
Pre-Award Development Officer
victoria.boon@northumbria.ac.uk
Funder alignment: Royal Society, UK Space Agency and European Space Agency
Victoria provides support to researchers to develop and secure external research grants via the provision of specialist support at every stage of the pre-award process, including guidance on preparing/checking the components, structure and content of the proposal.
Carolyn Taylor
carolyn2.taylor@northumbria.ac.uk
Carolyn provides support to researchers to develop and secure external research grants via the provision of specialist support at every stage of the pre-award process, including guidance on preparing/checking the components, structure and content of the proposal.
Steve Bremner
steve2.bremner@northumbria.ac.uk
Departmental Support: Sports, Education and Rehabilitation (SER)
Steve provides support to researchers to develop and secure external research grants via the provision of specialist support at every stage of the pre-award process, including guidance on preparing/checking the components, structure and content of the proposal, with a specific IDRT lens.
Daisy Winter
daisy3.winter@northumbria.ac.uk
Sarah Agnew
Pre-Award Coordinator
sarah.agnew@northumbria.ac.uk
Faculty Support: ADSS/HLS
Departmental support: Arts; Design; Humanities; Nursing, Midwifery & Health
Sarah provides support to academic staff across all 4 faculties.
Simon Cochrane
simon.j.cochrane@northumbria.ac.uk
Departmental support: Social Sciences; Geography & Environmental Sciences; Social Work, Education and Community Wellbeing (SWECW).
Vira Levkivska
vira.levkivska@northumbria.ac.uk
Departmental support: Applied Sciences; Architecture & Built Environment
Maureen McCourt
maureen.mccourt@northumbria.ac.uk
Faculty Support: EE
Departmental support: Leadership & HRM; Accounting & Financial Management; Entrepreneurship & Innovation Strategy
Maureen has provided support to academic staff across all 4 faculties.
Alex Okike
alex.okike@northumbria.ac.uk
Departmental support: Computer and Information Sciences (CIS); Maths, Physics & Electrical Engineering (MPEE).
James Clay
james.clay@northumbria.ac.uk
Andrew Pearce
andrew.pearce@northumbria.ac.uk
Departmental support: Mechanical & Construction Engineering (MCE)
Andy has supported academic staff across all 4 faculties.
Tier 1 applications for external funding (typically under £25k)
The team members below provide support and guidance to Tier 1 (typically under £25k) applications for external funding.
This support includes the coordination of project costings, approvals and compliance checks:
Carol Bennett
Pre-Award Administrator
carol.bennett@northumbria.ac.uk
Faculty support: Business & Law; Engineering & Environment
Carol provides support to academic staff with external funding applications, specifically Business and Law (BL) and Engineering and Environment (EE) with Tier 1 funding.
Jessica O'Donnell
jessica2.odonnell@northumbria.ac.uk
Faculty support: Arts, Design & Social Sciences; Health & Life Sciences
Jessica provides support to academic staff for external funding applications and is the primary contact for Tier 1 funding for Arts, Design and Social Sciences (ADSS), and Health and Life Sciences (HLS).
Our Post-Award team provides
expert advice and guidance to researchers.
Magda Szewczyk Post-Award Manager (Finance and Compliance) magda.szewczyk@northumbria.ac.uk Magda joined RIS in October 2024.
Leena Milroy Post-Award Manager (Project Delivery) leena.milroy@northumbria.ac.uk Leena joined RIS in November 2024.
Prior to Northumbria, Leena has worked extensively in project management, change and transformation across the public, higher education and private sectors.
Her current remit covers the elements of large-scale project management, ranging from contributing to the university’s delivery approach to providing training to both the academic and non-academic staff involved in delivering projects.
Leena also leads on the development of policies and processes that expedite the mobilisation and delivery of grants.
In addition, Leena is managing a team of Post-Award coordinators and officers as well as the Research Contracts coordinators.
Karen Finley Post Award Officer karen.finley@northumbria.ac.uk Karen provides support to PIs on complex research grants, including financial management, budget monitoring, claims and audits, forecasting and reporting.
Karen supports Academic colleagues in managing their budgets, offering advice and guidance on internal policies and procedures, and funder regulations.
Karen works closely with partners to ensure successful delivery of the grant.
Rachel Sibley Post Award Officer rachel.sibley@northumbria.ac.uk Rachel joined the team in July 2023 after previously working in both pre & post award at Newcastle University.
Rachel will work closely with PI’s and academic colleagues to project manage externally funded research and knowledge exchange with a diverse range of funders and partners.
Rachel will maintain an oversight of project budgets and expenditure which will include budget monitoring, forecasting and reporting.
Rachel will also provide guidance and support to ensure research milestone and deliverables are met whilst adhering to funder terms and conditions and internal procedures and policies Kelly Wilkinson Post Award Officer kelly.wilkinson@northumbria.ac.uk Kelly provides central support across the team.
She has created and now maintains central sources for collating important project information such as claim deadlines, forecasts, documentation and more.
Kelly also continues to look at ways of improving the management of information, until new systems are in place.
Kelly is also an experienced research delivery coordinator and provides additional support to colleagues in the faculties during busy periods as well as provide training to new team members.
Joanne Craig Post Award Officer joanne.craig@northumbria.ac.uk I’m a post award Officer looking after projects mainly within the Health and Wellbeing Faculty.
I’ve been in RIS for 6 months, and just over 3 years at Northumbria with previous roles within the University in International and Finance.
Interests outside of work, are my family, including 2 children and 3 bunnies who keep me extremely busy!
Maya Duncanson Post Award Coordinator maya.duncanson@northumbria.ac.uk Maya provides Post Award support to the Business and Law
Faculty, working closely with PIs on various externally funded projects
including those funded by European Commission, British Academy, Leverhulme
Trust, Innovate UK and other collaborative partners.
Maya provides expenditure
reports and statements to funders and liaises with PIs on post award matters
such as budget and spend, quarterly forecast on live projects and audit
preparation.
Andrea Reynolds Post Award Coordinator andrea.reynolds@northumbria.ac.uk Andrea provides post award support to project teams in the
Engineering & Environment Faculty from award through to closure.
Andrea provides support with tasks such as budget updates, claim preparation,
invoicing, compliance with funder guidelines, coordination of audits, budget
forecasting and reprofiling.
Andrea has experience of European Funding and is
keen to support colleagues to optimise their grants and deliver successful
projects.
Lynn Retallick Post Award Coordinator lynn.retallick@northumbria.ac.uk Lynn offers project and financial management skills and
expertise to assist in the successful delivery of Research Grants awarded by
external funding bodies.
Lynn has experience in grant management of revenue and
capital projects, forecasting & budgetary control, funding claims/
reporting, compliance and audit and assists PIs to ensure research grants are
utilised to their full potential.
Lynn works closely with research partners and
colleagues within all support areas, to keep research projects on track and
successful.
Bukunola Adekolu Post Award Coordinator bukunola.adekolu@northumbria.ac.uk Bukunola supports research projects, managing all aspects of
budget and spend monitoring, compliance, claims and invoicing, financial
reporting, contracts and procurement.
Bukunola’s experience before Northumbria
covered programme operational management of donor-funded international
development programmes across Africa and the Middle East.
Michael Baty Post Award Coordinator michael.baty@northumbria.ac.uk Michael provides post award support, financial management
and administration of research projects, within the Health & Life Sciences
Faculty, mainly overseeing the departments of Applied Sciences and Social Work,
Education and Community Wellbeing.
Michael prepares financial statements
for both internal and external stakeholders, and monitors project accounts to
ensure we comply with both funding and financial regulations, including audit
preparation as required, and assists in the preparation of quarterly forecast
reports for faculty.
Paul Beal Post Award Coordinator p.beal@northumbria.ac.uk Paul Beal is the research delivery coordinator for the Help
to Grow management programme, a course delivered with the Chartered Association
of Business Schools to support small and medium businesses.
Paul works closely
with the programme PI to deliver budget monitoring and project forecasting,
financial reports on spending, claim preparation, invoicing, audit preparation
and ensuring expenditure compliance.
Andrea Palfreeman Post Award Coordinator andrea.palfreeman@northumbria.ac.uk Andrea provides post award support for externally funded
awards which includes monitoring spend against budgets, claims and invoicing,
financial reporting, and audit preparation.
Andrea works with PI’s to offer
advice and guidance on funder and University rules and regulations.
Kirsty Hoey Post Award Coordinator kirsty.hoey@northumbria.ac.uk Kirsty currently provides support for the CPD and
Consultancies across all four faculties.
Kirsty is responsible for the
claims, invoicing, reporting and forecasting.
Prior to working in RIS,
Kirsty was part of the HLS faculty resource team and coordinated the IAPT
project, providing project support and management.
Emma Crowley Post Award Coordinator emma.crowley@northumbria.ac.uk Emma supports research projects, managing all aspects of
budget and spend monitoring, compliance, claims and invoicing, financial
reporting, contracts and procurement.
Emma was previously an ERDF
Coordinator for the NEBS2 Project, working with the Placements and Internships
Team within Graduate Futures, and the Grants and Contracts Team within Research
and Innovation Services.
Emma has managed several large-scale, multi-party
projects, including a multi-million-pound, 5-year Innovate UK, DASA and an ERDF
project through BIC, in addition to managing the SME’s financial accounts.
Adam Dixon Post Award Coordinator adam7.dixon@northumbria.ac.uk Adam is the Research Delivery Coordinator for projects in
the Faculty of Arts, Design and Social Sciences.
Adam assists PIs with
the financial management of their projects, providing expenditure updates,
submitting claims, invoicing, and producing reports.
Adam's role involves
providing expert knowledge of UNN's financial regulations and external funder
guidance.
Alona Baranchenko Post Award Coordinator alona.baranchenko@northumbria.ac.uk Alona provides post award support for externally funded awards, assisting PIs with financial management and administration of research projects mainly within the Faculty of Science and Environment.
Alona provides support with tasks such as monitoring spend against budgets, submitting claims and invoicing, financial reporting, and audit preparation.
Alona works closely with PIs' to offer advice and guidance on funder and University rules and regulations and is keen to support PIs' in delivering successful projects.
Ashley Coates Post Award Assistant ashley.coates@northumbria.ac.uk Ashley supports the research delivery coordinators with
project support for externally funded projects, including claim submissions,
reconciliations, journals, invoicing, and forecasting, as well as audit
assistance and Tier 1 project portfolio project management including Financial
Management.
Helen Hodgson Post Award Assistant helen.hodgson@northumbria.ac.uk
Post-Award Manager (Finance and Compliance)
magda.szewczyk@northumbria.ac.uk
Magda joined RIS in October 2024.
Leena Milroy
Post-Award Manager (Project Delivery)
leena.milroy@northumbria.ac.uk
Leena joined RIS in November 2024.
Karen Finley
Post Award Officer
karen.finley@northumbria.ac.uk
Karen provides support to PIs on complex research grants, including financial management, budget monitoring, claims and audits, forecasting and reporting.
Rachel Sibley
rachel.sibley@northumbria.ac.uk
Rachel joined the team in July 2023 after previously working in both pre & post award at Newcastle University.
Rachel will also provide guidance and support to ensure research milestone and deliverables are met whilst adhering to funder terms and conditions and internal procedures and policies
Kelly Wilkinson
kelly.wilkinson@northumbria.ac.uk
Kelly provides central support across the team.
Joanne Craig
joanne.craig@northumbria.ac.uk
I’m a post award Officer looking after projects mainly within the Health and Wellbeing Faculty.
Maya Duncanson
Post Award Coordinator
maya.duncanson@northumbria.ac.uk
Maya provides Post Award support to the Business and Law
Faculty, working closely with PIs on various externally funded projects
including those funded by European Commission, British Academy, Leverhulme
Trust, Innovate UK and other collaborative partners.
Andrea Reynolds
andrea.reynolds@northumbria.ac.uk
Andrea provides post award support to project teams in the
Engineering & Environment Faculty from award through to closure.
Lynn Retallick
lynn.retallick@northumbria.ac.uk
Lynn offers project and financial management skills and
expertise to assist in the successful delivery of Research Grants awarded by
external funding bodies.
Bukunola Adekolu
bukunola.adekolu@northumbria.ac.uk
Bukunola supports research projects, managing all aspects of
budget and spend monitoring, compliance, claims and invoicing, financial
reporting, contracts and procurement.
Michael Baty
michael.baty@northumbria.ac.uk
Michael provides post award support, financial management
and administration of research projects, within the Health & Life Sciences
Faculty, mainly overseeing the departments of Applied Sciences and Social Work,
Education and Community Wellbeing.
Paul Beal
p.beal@northumbria.ac.uk
Paul Beal is the research delivery coordinator for the Help
to Grow management programme, a course delivered with the Chartered Association
of Business Schools to support small and medium businesses.
Andrea Palfreeman
andrea.palfreeman@northumbria.ac.uk
Andrea provides post award support for externally funded
awards which includes monitoring spend against budgets, claims and invoicing,
financial reporting, and audit preparation.
Kirsty Hoey
kirsty.hoey@northumbria.ac.uk
Kirsty currently provides support for the CPD and
Consultancies across all four faculties.
Emma Crowley
emma.crowley@northumbria.ac.uk
Emma supports research projects, managing all aspects of
budget and spend monitoring, compliance, claims and invoicing, financial
reporting, contracts and procurement.
Adam Dixon
adam7.dixon@northumbria.ac.uk
Adam is the Research Delivery Coordinator for projects in
the Faculty of Arts, Design and Social Sciences.
Alona Baranchenko
alona.baranchenko@northumbria.ac.uk
Alona provides post award support for externally funded awards, assisting PIs with financial management and administration of research projects mainly within the Faculty of Science and Environment.
Post Award Assistant
ashley.coates@northumbria.ac.uk
Ashley supports the research delivery coordinators with
project support for externally funded projects, including claim submissions,
reconciliations, journals, invoicing, and forecasting, as well as audit
assistance and Tier 1 project portfolio project management including Financial
Management.
Helen Hodgson
helen.hodgson@northumbria.ac.uk
The Knowledge Exchange (KE) teams include: the Business Development Team who support our academics with external projects including contract and collaborative research, consultancy, CPD, facilities and equipment access, and degree apprenticeships; the IP Commercialisation Team who support our academics with the identification, protection and exploitation of Intellectual Property (IP); the KTP Team who support Northumbria's KTP engagement, providing programme information, enquiry guidance, input to applications and support during project delivery; the Impact & Engagement Team who support academics to make a difference from their research in the world beyond the university, including policy, public and community engagement in research; and the Impact Accelerator Account Manager who manages and delivers Northumbria's involvement in Impact Accelerator Accounts funded by Research Councils to deliver greater impact from research outputs through knowledge exchange activity support.
The Research Impact Team can give help and advice on: Untangling   what is impact and what it is not, including providing training and awareness   sessions Planning   to maximise impact throughout the research lifecycle Impact   in research funding applications Engaged   research, mapping and communicating with external stakeholders Different   routes to impact including through engagement with policy makers Evaluating   impact, evidencing and keeping records of change Impact   in the Research Excellence Framework (REF) Lucy Moorcraft Impact and Engagement Manager lucy.moorcraft@northumbria.ac.uk Lucy has a scientific background and 20 years’ experience of
teaching and communicating science and impact to a wide variety of audiences
and in many different formats.
She offers an impact perspective on research
work and provides support and advice on: planning impact into your research;
explaining specialist topics to non-specialist audiences; and communicating
to different internal and external stakeholders.
Departmental alignments: Computing and Information Sciences; Psychology; Sport, Exercise and Rehabilitation; UoA Education Verna Armstrong Impact and Engagement Officer verna.armstrong@northumbria.ac.uk Verna is committed to assisting staff in developing and
evidencing societal impact from their potential impactful research through
consistent engagement and collaboration.
Departmental alignments: Mechanical and Construction Engineering; Maths, Physics and Electrical Engineering; Applied Sciences; Geography and Environmental Sciences Gabriella Arrigoni Impact and Engagement Officer gabriella.arrigoni@northumbria.ac.uk Gabi provides strategic advice on how to best plan,
evaluate and evidence research impact, as well as supporting impact within
bid proposals and developing impact literacy.
She is passionate about
building capacity for an impact culture that is inherent to the research
process.
Departmental alignments: Art and Design; Social Sciences; Nursing, Midwifery and Health; Architecture and the Built Environment; Social Work, Education and Community Wellbeing Emma Watson Impact and Engagement Officer emma11.watson@northumbria.ac.uk With a background in the teaching side of Higher Education, Emma has recently moved into the research field at Northumbria University.
Emma has experience in providing training on and communicating about educationally focused projects and demonstrating the impact they have on students through work at both Northumbria University and Durham Students’ Union.
Emma is passionate about finding new and exciting ways to demonstrate especially the social impact of academic research and how this can make tangible change at all levels.
Departmental alignments: Humanities; Accounting and Financial Management; Entrepreneurship, Innovation and Strategy; Leadership and Human Resource Management; Marketing, Operations and System; The Business Clinic; and The Law School.
Jenny Hasenfuss Policy Engagement Officer jenny.hasenfuss@northumbria.ac.uk Jenny is responsible for coordinating the Capabilities in Academic Policy Engagement (CAPE) project related activity across the University of Northumbria and works closely with the other CAPE coordinators at University College London, University of Cambridge, University of Manchester and University of Nottingham, the CAPE consortium and policy partners.
Prior to joining Northumbria University in June 2021, Jenny worked for ten years in a range of a research engagement roles within higher education including public engagement, community engagement, patient engagement and policy engagement.
Claire Hutchinson Public and Community Engagement Officer claire.s.hutchinson@northumbria.ac.uk Claire is a Public and Community Engagement Officer in the Research Impact team.
She supports on the Capabilities in Academic Policy Engagement (CAPE) project and related activity across the University of Northumbria.
Claire joined Northumbria in April 2023 and comes from a background in the third sector and communication.
Working in environmental regeneration for over ten years, Claire project managed a wide variety of programmes including a Primary Care Trust funded exercise on referral ‘Green Activity’ project, established a network of self-sustaining community allotments, as well as leading on Heritage schemes and urban land regeneration projects.
Claire has also worked for HRH King Charles’ Corporate Social Responsibility Charity, Business in the Community, helping businesses improve their impact on society.
The Research Impact Team can give help and advice on:
Lucy Moorcraft
Impact and Engagement Manager
lucy.moorcraft@northumbria.ac.uk
Lucy has a scientific background and 20 years’ experience of
teaching and communicating science and impact to a wide variety of audiences
and in many different formats.
Departmental alignments: Computing and Information Sciences; Psychology; Sport, Exercise and Rehabilitation; UoA Education
Verna Armstrong
Impact and Engagement Officer
verna.armstrong@northumbria.ac.uk
Verna is committed to assisting staff in developing and
evidencing societal impact from their potential impactful research through
consistent engagement and collaboration.
Departmental alignments: Mechanical and Construction Engineering; Maths, Physics and Electrical Engineering; Applied Sciences; Geography and Environmental Sciences
Gabriella Arrigoni
gabriella.arrigoni@northumbria.ac.uk
Gabi provides strategic advice on how to best plan,
evaluate and evidence research impact, as well as supporting impact within
bid proposals and developing impact literacy.
Departmental alignments: Art and Design; Social Sciences; Nursing, Midwifery and Health; Architecture and the Built Environment; Social Work, Education and Community Wellbeing
Emma Watson
emma11.watson@northumbria.ac.uk
With a background in the teaching side of Higher Education, Emma has recently moved into the research field at Northumbria University.
Policy Engagement Officer
jenny.hasenfuss@northumbria.ac.uk
Jenny is responsible for coordinating the Capabilities in Academic Policy Engagement (CAPE) project related activity across the University of Northumbria and works closely with the other CAPE coordinators at University College London, University of Cambridge, University of Manchester and University of Nottingham, the CAPE consortium and policy partners.
Claire Hutchinson
Public and Community Engagement Officer
claire.s.hutchinson@northumbria.ac.uk
Claire is a Public and Community Engagement Officer in the Research Impact team.
The IP Commercialisation Team can: Help find partners or funding to develop ideas further, supporting through the commercialisation process Evaluate and manage the protection of Intellectual Property (IP) including patents in accordance with Northumbria University’s Intellectual Property Policy Support finding licensees Give business support to create a company Advise on IP and exploitation sections in bids or other complex IP situations Northumbria University Statement on the UK Government’s Independent Review of University Spinout Companies Following the publication of the Independent Review of University Spinout Companies on 21st November 2023, Northumbria University has been working to develop its Intellectual Property (IP) Policy and processes to support the commercialisation of its research through the creation of spinout companies by fully adopting the recommendations within the Review.
The University is pleased to support the recommendations, with the recently revised and publicly available IP Policy ((published in September 2024) fully aligned with the sector best practice detailed in the review.
The IP Policy can be accessed here .
Chelsea Brain IP Commercialisation Manager chelsea.brain@northumbria.ac.uk Chelsea is an engineer with business experience and over 7 years
of experience in commercialising University technology.
For Northumbria
academics, Chelsea can: advise on protecting new inventions or ideas
(Intellectual Property); support with exploitation of research and the
commercialisation process; advise on anything related to IP or
commercialisation.
For companies,
Chelsea can introduce licencing opportunities or academic expertise fitting
to solving company challenges.
Shanjoy Mairembam IP Commercialisation Manager shanjoy.mairembam@northumbria.ac.uk Shan is an Innovation & Growth professional with a background
in engineering, management and law and 19 years of experience across
IT/Telecom industry, growth consultancy and Higher Education.
Shan supports
protection and exploitation of research outputs and new venture creation of
disruptive innovations.
He helps in contract negotiation of ‘licensing,
collaboration, joint venture’ deals.
Prior to Northumbria, Shan worked at
University of Leicester (specialising in IP commercialisation and spinout
formation) and University of Westminster (focusing on knowledge exchange and
knowledge transfer activities).
Usain AlKadri IP Commercialisation Manager usain.alkadri@northumbria.ac.uk Usain has a Ph.D.
in Energy Engineering and extensive experience in business development, IP commercialization, and start-ups.
Usain's career focuses on mentoring and consulting individuals and organizations to transform their innovative ideas into successful ventures.
He has launched multiple start-ups himself and has a vast international network, with various consultants, companies, firms, and investors.
Usain works closely with Northumbria academics and spinout companies and offers a comprehensive range of services, including guidance on protecting new inventions, supporting the exploitation of research outputs, facilitating collaborations between industry and academia, and forming spinouts.
Additionally, Usain offers help in crafting compelling visions, missions, and business plans in the spinout's respective pursuits to commercialize university IP and contributes to fostering a culture of innovation, entrepreneurship, and knowledge exchange at Northumbria University.
Elspeth MacDonald IP Commercialisation Coordinator elspeth.macdonald@northumbria.ac.uk Elspeth joined the IP Commercialisation team in October 2024, after gaining a Masters in Biomedical Engineering and almost 2 years experience working in a medical device spinout.
Elspeth supports the IP Commercialisation Managers, manages the University’s IP portfolio, conducts prior art searches and runs Northumbria’s Knowledge Bank to advertise materials arising from research.
The IP Commercialisation Team can:
Northumbria University Statement on the UK Government’s Independent Review of University Spinout Companies
Following the publication of the Independent Review of University Spinout Companies on 21st November 2023, Northumbria University has been working to develop its Intellectual Property (IP) Policy and processes to support the commercialisation of its research through the creation of spinout companies by fully adopting the recommendations within the Review.
Chelsea Brain
IP Commercialisation Manager
chelsea.brain@northumbria.ac.uk
Chelsea is an engineer with business experience and over 7 years
of experience in commercialising University technology.
Shanjoy Mairembam
shanjoy.mairembam@northumbria.ac.uk
Shan is an Innovation & Growth professional with a background
in engineering, management and law and 19 years of experience across
IT/Telecom industry, growth consultancy and Higher Education.
Usain AlKadri
usain.alkadri@northumbria.ac.uk
Usain has a Ph.D.
Elspeth MacDonald
IP Commercialisation Coordinator
elspeth.macdonald@northumbria.ac.uk
Elspeth joined the IP Commercialisation team in October 2024, after gaining a Masters in Biomedical Engineering and almost 2 years experience working in a medical device spinout.
The Business Development and Commercialisation team works
with Northumbria colleagues, businesses, and external partners to promote
opportunities for collaboration and drive innovation.
We support a wide range
of Knowledge Exchange (KE) and Enterprise activities, including Consultancy,
Continuing Professional Development (CPD), Degree Apprenticeships, Contract
Research, and Collaborative Research.
We also manage Northumbria’s involvement in Knowledge
Transfer Partnerships (KTPs), a UKRI/Innovate UK programme that connects
businesses with academic expertise to deliver strategic innovation.
Our
structured approach ensures effective handling of KTP enquiries, funding
applications, and project management, all aligned with funder requirements.
Emma Batey Business Development Managers emma.batey@northumbria.ac.uk Faculty alignment: Arts, Design and Social Sciences; Health and Life Sciences Richard Hopper Business Development Manager richard.hopper@northumbria.ac.uk Faculty alignment: Health and Life Sciences Vincent Robson Business Development Manager vincent.robson@northumbria.ac.uk Faculty: Business and Law Sam Tennant Business Development Manager samantha.tennant@northumbria.ac.uk Faculty: Engineering and Environment Robyn
Liddle Business Development Manager robyn.liddle@northumbria.ac.uk Faculty: Engineering and Environment Rizwan Khan Business Development Coordinator rizwan2.khan@northumbria.ac.uk Lindsay Connolly KTP Manager lindsay.connolly@northumbria.ac.uk Lindsay supports Northumbria’s KTP engagement, providing programme information, enquiry guidance, input to applications and support during project delivery.
Pre- and Post-Award expertise is available from the RIS team and Business Development Managers in GMB.
Karl Ward KTP Manager karl.ward@northumbria.ac.uk Karl supports Northumbria’s KTP engagement, providing programme information, enquiry guidance, input to applications and support during project delivery.
Jack Grummit KTP Manager j.grummitt@northumbria.ac.uk Harriett Armstrong KE Administrator h.r.armstrong@northumbria.ac.uk Greg Stone KE Administrator greg.stone@northumbria.ac.uk
Emma Batey
Business Development Managers
emma.batey@northumbria.ac.uk
Faculty alignment: Arts, Design and Social Sciences; Health and Life Sciences
Richard Hopper
Business Development Manager
richard.hopper@northumbria.ac.uk
Faculty alignment: Health and Life Sciences
Vincent Robson
vincent.robson@northumbria.ac.uk
Faculty: Business and Law
Sam Tennant
samantha.tennant@northumbria.ac.uk
Faculty: Engineering and Environment
Robyn
Liddle
robyn.liddle@northumbria.ac.uk
Rizwan Khan
rizwan2.khan@northumbria.ac.uk
Lindsay Connolly
KTP Manager
lindsay.connolly@northumbria.ac.uk
Lindsay supports Northumbria’s KTP engagement, providing programme information, enquiry guidance, input to applications and support during project delivery.
Karl Ward
karl.ward@northumbria.ac.uk
Karl supports Northumbria’s KTP engagement, providing programme information, enquiry guidance, input to applications and support during project delivery.
Jack Grummit
j.grummitt@northumbria.ac.uk
Harriett Armstrong
KE Administrator
h.r.armstrong@northumbria.ac.uk
Greg Stone
greg.stone@northumbria.ac.uk
The Research Quality and Compliance Team works collaboratively and in partnership with colleagues across the institution on the related agendas of research integrity and ethics, research evaluation and trusted research.
In addition to leading Northumbria’s preparations for the Research Excellence Framework, the team provides strategic reporting and ensures that our underpinning systems support our ambitions for growth of quality research.
Research Due Diligence and Compliance Paul and Jamie provide advice on issues relating to trusted research, due diligence and regulatory compliance at all stages of the research lifecycle.
Please contact rm.trustedresearch@northumbria.ac.uk or visit our due diligence intranet pages.
Paul Smith Research Due Diligence and Compliance Manager paul.smith@northumbria.ac.uk Paul can advise on issues relating to regulatory compliance
and due diligence at all stages of the research lifecycle.
Jamie McWilliams Research Due Diligence and Compliance Coordinator jamie.mcwilliams@northumbria.ac.uk Jamie works with the Research Due Diligence and Compliance
Manager to support colleagues to ensure regulatory compliance and that all
research projects are subject to proportionate due diligence.
Research Ethics and Integrity Ellen, Hala and Emily offer support and guidance on using the online research ethics application system, external ethical approvals and compliance, and can advise on best practice for the ethical conduct of research at Northumbria.
For general ethics queries, you can contact the team inbox at ethicssupport@northumbria.ac.uk or visit the Ethics and Integrity webpage.
If you have a confidential research integrity issue to report, you can contact ellen.cole@northumbria.ac.uk Ellen Cole Research Environment and Integrity Manager ellen.s.cole@northumbria.ac.uk Ellen leads on initiatives that enhance the research
environment across the University, and support our academic staff to deliver
the highest quality research.
This includes developing the University’s
research culture action plan, and the systems and services that support
internal and external research assessment processes.
Ellen takes an
active interest in open research and participates in both University and
sector-wide initiatives to increase access to academic research publications
and their underlying data, and implementation of principles of responsible
research assessment.
Hala Othman Research Ethics and Development Coordinator hala.othman@northumbria.ac.uk.
Hala leads on research ethics and integrity training and development opportunities across the university, offering support for researchers at all levels through training materials, presentations, and documented guidance.
She has a developed understanding of both internal and external frameworks, regulations, and best practices and can provide advice in these areas, too.
Hala supports the ethical review process at all levels and offers support and guidance with this process, whilst also strengthening the positive and integral research culture through her work.
Em Howes Research Ethics and Integrity Coordinator e.howes@northumbria.ac.uk Em joined the Policy Team in April 2024 and supports
research ethics activity.
Research Information and Systems Peter and Paul provide support for users of research systems including Worktribe, Infonetica and Pure as well as support and advice on data integrations and research data management.
Reporting dashboards on Northumbria’s strategic ambitions for research and KE are developed and maintained by the team.
For general PureSupport enquiries, please contact puresupport@northumbria.ac.uk.
Peter Cammish Research Information & Systems Manager peter.cammish@northumbria.ac.uk Peter manages data and information related to research
systems.
This includes our main research information system Pure as well as
working with other research support systems such as Worktribe and Ethics
Online.
With a strong interest in data management and better utilising
information for decision making, Peter is actively implementing ways to
streamline integration and reporting of research data and metrics.
Peter
can offer help and advice on data integrations, research data management and
reporting as well as support for users of research systems.
Paul Mitchell Research Policy & Systems Coordinator paul.mitchell@northumbria.ac.uk Paul supports the maintenance and development of the
University research information system and repository of scholarly
publications, Pure.
Paul offers advice and assistance to academics
updating their research profiles via Pure and supports the production of
institutional research data and reports.
Research Quality and Assessment Kevin manages Northumbria’s internal peer review processes and the custom-design Research Quality Review System (RQRS) and supports initiatives aimed at promoting responsible research assessment.
Alongside Andrew, Kevin manages preparations for the upcoming REF 2029 exercise and also serves as a member of the University Strategy Advisory Group.
Kevin Richardson Research  Quality and Assessment Manager kevin2.richardson@northumbria.ac.uk Kevin has wide experience in research system
implementation and provided close support to the Research Excellence Framework
(REF) 2021 submission.
In his current role, Kevin leads on the
management of research quality processes and systems.
Additionally, he supports
initiatives aimed at enhancing research culture and promoting responsible
research assessment.
Kevin continues to assist preparations for the
upcoming REF 2029 exercise and serves as a member of the University Strategy
Advisory Group.
Research Due Diligence and Compliance
Paul and Jamie provide advice on issues relating to trusted research, due diligence and regulatory compliance at all stages of the research lifecycle.
Paul Smith
Research Due Diligence and Compliance Manager
paul.smith@northumbria.ac.uk
Paul can advise on issues relating to regulatory compliance
and due diligence at all stages of the research lifecycle.
Jamie McWilliams
Research Due Diligence and Compliance Coordinator
jamie.mcwilliams@northumbria.ac.uk
Jamie works with the Research Due Diligence and Compliance
Manager to support colleagues to ensure regulatory compliance and that all
research projects are subject to proportionate due diligence.
Research Ethics and Integrity
Ellen, Hala and Emily offer support and guidance on using the online research ethics application system, external ethical approvals and compliance, and can advise on best practice for the ethical conduct of research at Northumbria.
If you have a confidential research integrity issue to report, you can contact ellen.cole@northumbria.ac.uk
Ellen Cole
Research Environment and Integrity Manager
ellen.s.cole@northumbria.ac.uk
Ellen leads on initiatives that enhance the research
environment across the University, and support our academic staff to deliver
the highest quality research.
Hala Othman
Research Ethics and Development Coordinator
hala.othman@northumbria.ac.uk.
Em Howes
Research Ethics and Integrity Coordinator
e.howes@northumbria.ac.uk
Em joined the Policy Team in April 2024 and supports
research ethics activity.
Peter and Paul provide support for users of research systems including Worktribe, Infonetica and Pure as well as support and advice on data integrations and research data management.
Peter Cammish
Research Information & Systems Manager
peter.cammish@northumbria.ac.uk
Peter manages data and information related to research
systems.
Paul Mitchell
Research Policy & Systems Coordinator
paul.mitchell@northumbria.ac.uk
Paul supports the maintenance and development of the
University research information system and repository of scholarly
publications, Pure.
Research Quality and Assessment
Kevin manages Northumbria’s internal peer review processes and the custom-design Research Quality Review System (RQRS) and supports initiatives aimed at promoting responsible research assessment.
Kevin Richardson
Research  Quality and Assessment Manager
kevin2.richardson@northumbria.ac.uk
Kevin has wide experience in research system
implementation and provided close support to the Research Excellence Framework
(REF) 2021 submission.
The Economic Development team work with academics across the university to maximise the potential impact our research and innovation can have in the region.
The team develop and deliver funding strategies for strategic regional projects and offer advise across the university on regional funding sources.
Jenny Taylor Executive Director of Research and Innovation Services | Director of Economic Development Jenny2.taylor@northumbria.ac.uk Jenny is Executive Director of Research and Innovation Services.
She leads the development of strategic place based innovation and economic regeneration projects for the university identifying and accessing appropriate funding opportunities.
She also works closely with local policymakers supporting ambitions for innovation, knowledge exchange and embedding the role of the university.
Michelle Kay Economic Development Manager michelle.kay@northumbria.ac.uk Michelle joined the Economic Development Team in 2024.
Executive Director of Research and Innovation Services | Director of Economic Development
Jenny2.taylor@northumbria.ac.uk
Jenny is Executive Director of Research and Innovation Services.
Michelle Kay
Economic Development Manager
michelle.kay@northumbria.ac.uk
Michelle joined the Economic Development Team in 2024.
Graduate School Overview The Graduate School, based within Research and Innovation Services, has oversight of postgraduate research degrees, and in collaboration with Faculties and other service departments, supports postgraduate research students from admission to award.
The team support around 1000 PGR students and their supervisors, in addition to managing studentships from UKRI, industry and internal RDF funding as well as self funding students.
We also oversee regulations, training, circumstances affecting progress, complaints and appeals and many other daily activities which enhance the student journey and contribute to key research targets.
Team Members Tim Baxter Graduate School Manager tim.baxter@northumbria.ac.uk Tim is responsible for oversight of postgraduate research student and related academic support, through support for Dean of the Graduate School and Graduate School Committee, PGR Academic Managers, and management of the Graduate School Team.
Paul Agnew PGR Coordinator (Graduate School) paul.agnew@northumbria.ac.uk Paul is responsible for the Professional Support aspect of PGR students (PhD and Professional Doctorate), aligned to the Faculty of Health and Life Sciences – around 315 students currently.
As part of the Graduate School, we look after the students from first enrolment to award, including systems which manage milestone review points, regulations and examinations.
He also co-ordinates projects such as improving the examinations processes and the Collaborative Doctoral Scheme Michelle Austin Graduate School Coordinator michelle.austin@northumbria.ac.uk Michelle looks after the Professional Support aspect of PGR students (PhD and Professional Doctorate), aligned to the Departments of Social Sciences & Humanities, within the Faculty of Arts, Design & Social Sciences.
As part of the Graduate School, we look after the students from first enrolment to award, including systems which manage milestone review points, regulations, and examinations.
Michelle also co-leads PGR Training and the Conference Bursary Scheme.
Chris Jackson Graduate School Coordinator christopher2.Jackson@northumbria.ac.uk The Graduate School manage and support PGR students from enrolment to award.
Chris manages central processes in the Graduate School such as Attendance Monitoring, the PRES Survey, data and reporting requests and others.
Chris also coordinate projects to improve processes and systems for PGR Students and Academic Staff associated with PGR.
Sarah Jukes PGR Coordinator (Graduate School) sarah.jukes@northumbria.ac.uk Sarah looks after the Professional Support aspect of PGR students (PhD and Professional Doctorate), aligned to the Faculty of Business and Law.
Sarah is also the lead for our Professional Doctorate and PhD by Publication programmes and provide advice and guidance within these areas.
Andrea Percival PGR Coordinator (Graduate School) andrea.percival@northumbria.ac.uk Andrea looks after the Professional Support aspect of PGR students (PhD and Professional Doctorate), aligned to the Departments of Arts & Design within the Faculty of Arts, Design & Social Sciences.
I am also the lead admin support for the Northern Bridge Consortium Doctoral Training Partnership students funded by the Arts & Humanities Research Council and the NINE Doctoral Training Partnership students funded by the Economic and Social Research Council ensuring alignment of Northumbria’s processes with UKRI guidance.
Simon Mills PGR Coordinator simon.mills@northumbria.ac.uk Jennie Sharp PGR Coordinator jennie.sharp@northumbria.ac.uk Tanjina Rahman PGR Coordinator tanjina.rahman@northumbria.ac.uk Tanjina oversees the administration of PGR student records (PhD and Professional Doctorate).
This includes new starter enrolments, processing examination teams and thesis submissions, organising viva-voce exams and processing student awards.
Tanjina is also involved in the administration of PGR Training, which includes the maintenance of the Blackboard with up-to-date relevant PGR content.
Tanjina also manages the Graduate School mailbox, CRM,  SiteCore and other ad-hoc administration duties.
David Duckworth Graduate School Administrator david.duckworth@northumbria.ac.uk As a research administrator in the Graduate School David looks after our PGR students on their research journeys, from their enrolment as new students to arranging the viva exams at the end of their studies.
David also works with the coordinators in the Graduate School to help to answer any PGR related queries, to arrange any extension requests or breaks in studies and help with the Conference Bursary applications and with the monthly Research Degree Committee which approves all PGR exam outcomes and awards.
Graduate School Overview
The Graduate School, based within Research and Innovation Services, has oversight of postgraduate research degrees, and in collaboration with Faculties and other service departments, supports postgraduate research students from admission to award.
Team Members
Tim Baxter
Graduate School Manager
tim.baxter@northumbria.ac.uk
Tim is responsible for oversight of postgraduate research student and related academic support, through support for Dean of the Graduate School and Graduate School Committee, PGR Academic Managers, and management of the Graduate School Team.
Paul Agnew
PGR Coordinator (Graduate School)
paul.agnew@northumbria.ac.uk
Paul is responsible for the Professional Support aspect of PGR students (PhD and Professional Doctorate), aligned to the Faculty of Health and Life Sciences – around 315 students currently.
He also co-ordinates projects such as improving the examinations processes and the Collaborative Doctoral Scheme
Michelle Austin
Graduate School Coordinator
michelle.austin@northumbria.ac.uk
Michelle looks after the Professional Support aspect of PGR students (PhD and Professional Doctorate), aligned to the Departments of Social Sciences & Humanities, within the Faculty of Arts, Design & Social Sciences.
Chris Jackson
christopher2.Jackson@northumbria.ac.uk
The Graduate School manage and support PGR students from enrolment to award.
Sarah Jukes
sarah.jukes@northumbria.ac.uk
Sarah looks after the Professional Support aspect of PGR students (PhD and Professional Doctorate), aligned to the Faculty of Business and Law.
Andrea Percival
andrea.percival@northumbria.ac.uk
Andrea looks after the Professional Support aspect of PGR students (PhD and Professional Doctorate), aligned to the Departments of Arts & Design within the Faculty of Arts, Design & Social Sciences.
Simon Mills
PGR Coordinator
simon.mills@northumbria.ac.uk
Jennie Sharp
jennie.sharp@northumbria.ac.uk
Tanjina Rahman
tanjina.rahman@northumbria.ac.uk
Tanjina oversees the administration of PGR student records (PhD and Professional Doctorate).
David Duckworth
Graduate School Administrator
david.duckworth@northumbria.ac.uk
As a research administrator in the Graduate School David looks after our PGR students on their research journeys, from their enrolment as new students to arranging the viva exams at the end of their studies.
Research and Innovation Services
Pandon Building
University of Northumbria
Camden Street
Newcastle-upon-Tyne
NE2 1XE
For general enquiries, please contact researchsupport@northumbria.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/research/researcher-development:
Northumbria University is committed to developing academic staff and research students.
This area links important information and guidance for the development and training of postgraduate research students.
Northumbria University provides a range of training and development opportunities to research staff as detailed on our Research Development for Staff page .
Click here to view our Researcher Development bitesize guide.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/research/ethics-integrity-and-trusted-research:
At Northumbria University, we firmly acknowledge that a commitment to ethical principles is an integral part of our approach to both research and teaching.
These pages are dedicated to articulating our steadfast commitment to ethical conduct.
Here, we provide a comprehensive framework outlining our university's rigorous policies, procedures, and best practices.
These resources are intended to empower our academic community, ensuring ethical conduct is at the forefront of research endeavours.
Ethics Applications and Reviews
Policy and Documentation
Training and Guidance

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/university-library:
Library for Learning
The University Library supports your academic success by providing
learning spaces, scholarly resources, online services, and opportunities to
develop your learning skills.
The Library achieves some of the highest levels
of student satisfaction in the UK and has held the Cabinet Office accreditation
for Customer Service Excellence since 2010.
City Campus Library and the University Library Digital Commons are open 24/7 during term-time, and the other libraries also operate generous opening hours , which can vary throughout the year to meet demand for space and support.
The Libraries are accessed by smartcard and staffed by Ask4Help, providing a safe and secure learning environment for you.
The Libraries offer learning
spaces to meet a variety of needs, from silent or quiet study through to social
and collaborative learning.
You'll be able to find the right learning space for
you, whether you want to focus, free from distraction or work as part of a
group.
Around half of the learning spaces are equipped with Macs, standard PCs
and some PCs with dual screen monitors, to
give you a choice in how you want to work.
The Library provides an extensive collection of scholarly resources including books,
ebooks, print and ejournals, as well as  databases, collections of early
historical books and primary digital archives.
The Library’s Northumbria Skills Programme helps you make the most of your time
at university,  enabling you to acquire the skills you need to become an
independent and effective scholar, from
skills sessions delivered in the classroom through to one-to-one appointments.
Skills Plus , the Library’s
collection of online learning materials,  allows you to develop your
skills through a range of interactive presentations, quizzes, video
demonstrations and printable help guides.
Northumbria Research Portal
Library Search
Library Search provides a single point of discovery for exploring the Library collection
Subject Resources
Collections of recommended resources for your study area

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/research/1/our-peaks-of-excellence/vice-chancellors-fellows:
Northumbria is a research-intensive university that unlocks potential for all.
Northumbria has transformed in recent years combining a focus on research excellence and social mobility, challenging the status quo to become a new kind of University.
In celebration of our transformation and to support our ambitious plans we launched our Vice Chancellors Fellowship scheme, appointing the first cohort of exceptional academics, who have joined a range of disciplines across the University, all listed below.
Our Vice-Chancellor’s Fellows are each shaping their individual and collaborative fields of research, and are aligned to one of the University discipline areas or Research Peaks of Excellence.
Justin's
research is focused on improving health outcomes for individuals that have
suffered an orthopaedic or neurological injury primarily affecting one side of
the body.
Justin’s primarily research interest is in understanding the neural
mechanisms of the cross-education effect; where exercising one side of the body
elicits a positive benefit to the same muscle group on the opposite side of the
body.
Though mechanistic investigations Justin aims to identify how we can
maximise the effectiveness of cross-education and determine how best
cross-education can be implemented to improve rehabilitation outcomes after
injury.
Research Profile
Girish completed his PhD in the field of
computational genomics at the Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology where he
surveyed genomic and transcriptomic
events in dinoflagellates.
He was then a Herchel Smith fellow at University of Cambridge, where he
employed biophysical, biochemical and computational approaches to understand
DNA organisation in dinoflagellates.
Girish is mainly interested in evolutionary
processes that drives secondary metabolism.
His
research focuses on a larger group of microorganisms (protists) and their role
in ecological settings with respect to their adaptation and lifestyles.
Vanessa’s main research focus is embedding understandings of
domestic abuse, particularly coercive control, in the criminal law and criminal
justice system.
As an academic lawyer she uses doctrinal, socio-legal and
comparative approaches in her work.
Her work is aligned with the Gender Violence
and Abuse IDRT, where she sits on the Management Board, and she has
collaborated with external organisations and academics in relation to
interdisciplinary projects in the field of domestic violence and abuse.
Vanessa
has provided written evidence to the parliaments of Westminster and Scotland
during the debates for legal reform introducing coercive control offences and
she is now exploring the challenges of accessing defences by coerced and
controlled victims who commit crimes either against their abusers or because of
their abusers.
Thomas's research fellowship develops the notion of ‘life as a frontier’ borrowing from Vannevar Bush’s “Endless Frontier” to look at astrobiology, biotechnology and space colonization.
This work engages with key questions for the law and governance as developments reshape our understanding of life and humanity’s relationship to and with ‘nature’.
This work builds on his previous work with AstrobiologyOU and is grounded in legal geography and the environmental humanities.
It critically examines the foundations of the space governance regime, specifically the concept of the ‘space frontier’ and as a ‘frontier’.
Martyn Dade-Robertson is a Professor of
Emerging Technology at Northumbria University where he specialises in Design
Computation with a special interest in emerging technologies particularly
Synthetic Biology.
He was a founder and Co-Director or the Hub for
Biotechnology in the Built Environment (HBBE), a new research centre
integrating design, biology and engineering to develop new 'living' buildings.
He has degrees in Architectural Design, Architectural Computation and Synthetic
Biology.
He is the author the book: The Architecture of Information published
by Routledge in 2011.
He is currently the editor for the Routledge book series
on Bio Design and has completed the first book Living Construction in 2020 and
the editor in Chief for the Cambridge University Press journal Biotechnology
Design.
He leads the Living Construction group with Prof.
Meng Zhang.
Dr Rasheedat
Modupe Mahamood is a Vice chancellor Fellow- Assistant Professor in the
Department of Mechanical and Construction Engineering in the Faculty of
Engineering and Environment.
Her
research interests is in Advanced Manufacturing technology such as Additive
Manufacturing/3D Printing, Laser and Friction Stir Welding, development and
characterisation of advanced composite and functionally graded materials for
Biomedical and aerospace application, and Renewable energy.
Dr Mahamood
has B.Eng.
in Mechanical Engineering, M.Eng in Mechanical Engineering and PhD
in Mechanical Engineering.
She is passionate about research and love to
collaborate with colleagues to bring about innovative solutions to present day
Engineering problems.
Olivia's research seeks to better understand the environmental
legacies of colonialism and to improve the lives of rural communities,
especially Bedouin, in the Middle East affected by environmental changes.
I am
an interdisciplinary scholar whose work sits across cultural,
environmental, (post)colonial, and political geography and to date has mostly
been focused on Jordan.
Currently it is centred around two themes: 1) mobility
politics, especially how movement is conditioned by situated cultural politics
and 2) resource colonialism, including the entanglements of resource scarcity
with (post)colonial politics.
Olivia is currently working on an ESRC funded research
project looking at the resource politics of nature reserves in Jordan, this
includes policy work to improve conditions for rural communities in Jordan
impacted by environmental policies.
Graham is a paramedic by background and his research interests encompass
all aspects of prehospital care and paramedic practice.
Graham was awarded a
fellowship by The Stroke Association to complete his PhD which explored
paramedic identification of stroke mimics.
The Stroke Association also funded
further work looking into prehospital timelines with stroke patients and the
potential to use telemedicine to improve emergency stroke care.
Graham is a
fellow of the College of Paramedics, a member of the College research committee
and sits on the editorial board of the British Paramedic Journal.
A historian
whose research has been funded by the Leverhulme Trust, AHRC, and ESRC, Henry
has a broad interest in social history and political culture in modern Britain
and beyond.
His recent and current research revolves arounds the history of
petitions and petitioning and has addressed important questions within social
and political science concerning representation, democracy, and collective
action from a historical perspective.
For his future research, Henry plans on
developing collaborative projects concerning the role of petitions within
imperial and post-colonial contexts and the local history of democracy in
Britain over the past two centuries.
Guy Jackson is an interdisciplinary social
scientist exploring human-environmental relations by examining disasters,
climate change, and environmental change.
He has published widely in leading
interdisciplinary journals, with a growing track record of high-impact
research.
His postdoctoral work has primarily focused on theoretical and
empirical research on the political, economic, and cultural dimensions of
climate change loss and damage.
Throughout the Vice Chancellor’s Fellowship, he
will primarily work on two international projects on power and politics in
cross-scale climate change adaptation and climate change immobilities.
Guy is a
member of various networks, such as the Loss and Damage Collaboration
(L&DC) and the African Loss and Damage Network (ALADAN).
Giray Kartopu is a Vice-Chancellor Fellow
appointed in 2023 and currently serves as an Assistant Professor in Physics
within the Faculty of Engineering and Environment.
His research focuses on
Energy Materials, with a visionary goal to enhance the performance of emerging
thin film solar cells through innovative nano-engineering techniques.
Dr.
Kartopu aims to scale up these advancements for product- and
building-integrated solar photovoltaic (PIPV, BIPV) applications.
He authored
over 60 research papers and contributed to 3 book chapters in the field of thin
films and nanotechnology.
Richard joined
Newcastle Business School in 2024, after 19 years at The University of
Queensland, Australia, before which he enjoyed an 18-year career as a chef.
Specialising in services employment and work, his projects have investigated
the tourism, hospitality, leisure, transport, retail and welfare/social service
sector contexts in the formal, gig and grey economies.
His research has been
funded by fellowships, competitive research grants, corporations,
not-for-profits, industry peak associations, governments, and international
agencies - and explore themes such as fair, safe and sustainable work, mental
health and wellbeing, careers and vocations, training and development.
Emiliano is Professor of Industrial
Mathematics in the Mathematics for Complex and Nonlinear Phenomena (MCNP)
Group.
His fundamental research in analytical and computational modelling
underpins the development of advanced mathematical techniques to study partial
differential equations and their applications to linear and nonlinear waves.
His work informs the design of novel
technologies that will enable coastal cities to become energy self-sufficient
and to better protect their population and infrastructures from coastal
hazards, exacerbated by raising sea levels and storminess due to climate
change.
Emiliano enjoys a strong track-record of
successful collaborations with experts in other disciplines (e.g., meteorology,
geophysics, engineering) and non-academic partners, such as Met Office, British
Geological Survey, Aquamarine Power Ltd.
Dr Rodrigo
Vitório’s research is focused on better understanding the neural correlates of
mobility impairments and developing enhanced assessments and interventions.
His
projects combine portable brain imaging technologies (e.g., EEG/fNRS), movement
analysis (e.g., inertial sensors) and neurophysiology (e.g., motor-evoked
potentials) to identify people at risk of falling and brain areas suitable to
be targeted by interventions.
His Vice-Chancellor’s Fellowship aims to develop
non-invasive brain stimulation (e.g., tDCS) as a treatment option for mobility
impairments in people with Parkinson’s disease.
Rachel is an art historian interested in the relationship between
political activism and art.
Looking at challenges to art’s institutions, the
role culture plays in conflict, and the politics of gender and sexuality in the
art world, my research examines the politics of art’s production.
I have
published on feminist art and poetry in The Oxford Art Journal, The Irish University Review, Courtauld Books Online, Muße, and The
Journal of British and Irish Innovative Poetry and co-organised the Courtauld's Gender and Sexuality
Research Group.
Rachel's book Pain and Politics in Postwar Feminist Art: Activism in the Work
of Nancy Spero was published by Bloomsbury in 2023.
Hongyan Xia is a Vice-Chancellor’s Fellow
and an Assistant Professor at the Department of Applied Science, Northumbria
University at Newcastle.
She is a member of the Royal Society of Chemistry.
Before joining Northumbria University, she was a Marie Skłodowska-Curie
Research Fellow at the University of Edinburgh.
Her research experience covers
a wide range including, design and synthesis of functional molecules and
polymers, fabrication of polymer microstructures, research on colour and
emission changes of materials and their applications for information display
and storage and study of stimuli-responsiveness for sensors.
Steph is an STFC Ernest
Rutherford Fellow and Vice-Chancellor’s Fellow in the Solar and Space Physics
Group at Northumbria University.
Her research focuses on understanding the
physical processes underlying solar activity and space weather.
In particular,
solar phenomena that can drive hazardous space weather conditions in the
near-Earth environment such as coronal mass ejections (eruptions of magnetised
plasma), energetic particles accelerated during these eruptions, and the solar
wind (continuous flow of particles from the Sun).
Alongside her research, she is
actively involved in public engagement, media and outreach activities aimed at
various audiences from school students to the general public.
Qiuji's research focus on multi-dimensional data processing/feature extraction and
fusion, data-driven twin modelling and inversion analysis.
One
of his papers about proposing an automatic
delamination detection framework using Kernal Principal Component is the most
cited work in the top journal.
Qiuji is currently developing and delivering an
agreed personal research plan and participating in institutional and
collaborative research, with industry stakeholders (Rolls-Royce, GKN aerospace
and the National Composite Centre), and other University partners (TU Delft,
UESTC, Newcastle University).
He is also actively looking for research funding
opportunities.
Qiuji is particularly excited about advancing fundamental AI
capabilities while addressing pressing engineering needs in Manufacturing and
Maintenance, such as AI for non-destructive testing and structural health
monitoring.
He is looking forward to exploring these multidisciplinary problems
with collaborators from academia and industry.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/research/doctoral-training-partnerships-and-centres:
Northumbria is ranked in the top 25 Universities in the UK for 'Research Power' in the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021, and was named 'Best University in the UK' in the Times Higher Education (THE) Awards 2022.
As part of our continued commitment to research
excellence, the University is offering up to 100 funded PhD studentships, commencing from October 2024.
These opportunities are open to exceptional applicants
worldwide, and include funding from organisations such as the Arts & Humanities Research Council (AHRC), Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC), Economic & Social Research Council (ESRC), Natural Environment Research Council (NERC), Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC).
The
University advertises many of its studentships around late November/early
December, however we advise checking all-year round as studentships are often
available at any given point in the year.
To see our live fully-funded opportunities and our PhD scholarships click here .

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/research/research-culture:
Welcome to the Northumbria University Research Culture
pages.
On these pages you can find out more about our work to ensure we offer
a vibrant, fair and inclusive research culture at Northumbria.
You can also
find out about our Research Culture Action Plan and Initiatives to deliver this
ambition, the Research Culture team who are delivering this work, the Research
Culture Committee that overseas and advises on our approaches, and the
Concordats we are signed up to that demonstrate our external commitments on
Research Culture.
Research Culture is described by The Royal Society (2018) as encompassing:
‘The behaviours, values,
expectations, attitudes and norms of our research communities.
It
influences researchers’ career paths and determines the way
that research is conducted and communicated.'
Research culture is therefore about the way we conduct,
enable and celebrate our research.
It is also reflective of the wider
environment we work in and the systems, policies and processes that underpin
this.
Across the sector a positive, inclusive and vibrant research
culture is recognised as a key factor in delivering high quality research and
an increasingly important part of research assessment.
The focus on research
culture reflects a growing recognition that historical inequalities have
created poor research practices.
Research assessment has often focused on a narrow range of
metrics, reducing incentives for ambitious research, and undermining
interdisciplinarity and openness.
The contributions of technicians and other
professional services staff has been undervalued, and different types of
research and research outputs have often had limited recognition.
On these
pages, you can find out how we are tackling these issues and find opportunities
to get involved.
Research Culture Action Plan and Initiatives
Read about our Research Culture Action Plan and Initiatives
Meet the Team
An introduction to the Dean of Culture and Research Support Staff
Concordats and Commitments
Information on the Concordats and Commitments which underpin and govern Research Culture
Research Culture Committee
The University’s internal governance for Research Culture and related activity

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/research/research-culture/research-culture-initiatives:
To enable progress, we must challenge established practices,
question assumptions and listen to our research community.
Our aim is to
challenge inequalities in the research ecosystem to enable all researchers to
pursue and produce high quality research in all its forms and ensure that
everyone who contributes to research is valued and recognised.
We have established a set of principles, initiatives and
governance to grow a more vibrant, fair and inclusive Research Culture at
Northumbria.
Our Research Culture Action Plan is a living document, which has
been created through an iterative consultative process.
It is intended to
change and grow over time in line with emergent issues, driven both internally
and externally.
The Action Plan and Initiatives build on work already put
in place as well as bringing Research Culture activity together in an
integrated way with clear governance and leadership.
Culture change will not
happen immediately, it will take time, and our actions are steps towards this
change.
Our Research Culture Action Plan for 2024 – 2027
sets out our Research Culture Principles, Research Culture Initiatives, and
cross cutting activity which together will help us to grow a more vibrant,
fair, and inclusive research culture.
Sector failures to recognise the
contributions of staff who support and enable research (e.g.
technicians,
professional service staff such as data managers, research librarians, and
research administrators) undermine the effectiveness of research ecosystems,
work against inclusion and weaken efforts to deliver world-leading research.
A task and finish group
(reporting to Research Culture Committee) will develop proposals to promote
greater visibility and recognition for staff involved in research who are not
in academic roles, building on our work for the Technicians Commitment to which the
University is already a signatory.
The four UK higher education funding bodies have announced
that REF2029 will
feature an expanded definition of research excellence, with greater
consideration of the conditions that underpin the creation of research.
This
means that the Environment element of the assessment will now become People,
Culture and Environment, with an increased 25% weighting.
We are actively engaging in consultations on the development
of People, Culture and Environment (PCE) and in the identification of
indicators to measure and assess research culture.
Rejection is a routine part of an academic career, and our
ambitions – as individuals and as a University – can expose us to greater risk
of rejection.
This programme of activity aims to acknowledge that
rejection is a normal part of the research process, and to create supportive
spaces for researchers at all career stages to share their experiences and develop
coping strategies.
The programme currently includes in-person events, online
toolkits and resources, and will continue to develop over the 2024/25 academic
year.
For resources on Rejection and Resilience, please follow: Rejection & Resilience Introductory Workshop .
Tales of the Unaccepted .
For resources on Rejection and Resilience, please follow:
Research groups are key drivers of research culture and
excellence in our academic ecosystem.
The formalisation of Research Groups and their Leads has
created spaces of focused research activity working at scales that can foster
vibrant, fair and inclusive ways of working.
A programme of activities and a toolkit of resources is
being developed to support  Research
Group Leads to develop and share inclusive and effective approaches to research
leadership.
To find resources on Research Group Leadership, please
follow Research Group Leadership:Mobilising Research Leads for Culture Change
The Working Group for Responsible Research Assessment makes
recommendations for the implementation of responsible research assessment
across the University’s activities, with a particular focus on recruitment,
promotion & progression, and the Research Excellence Framework.
The Working Group reports to Research Culture Committee and
includes representatives from our academic and professional services
communities, and the students’ union.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/research/research-culture/concordats-and-commitments:
Concordats (e.g.
Researcher Development Concordat), and
Charters (e.g.
the Technicians Commitment), are external standards and
principles frameworks that we commit to as part of our Research Culture.
They are
a substantial part of the research landscape as drivers for sector change.
They
contribute to research culture and institutional environments by highlighting
key sector issues, such as precarity, career development, and integrity.
They
can direct and deliver change by leveraging commitments to actions that support
specific communities, such as early career academics, professional support
staff, post-graduate researchers and technicians.
To find out more about each Concordat and Commitment, please
click on the titles below.
The Concordat to Support Research Integrity provides the principles and commitments to ensure that research produced by, or in collaboration with, UK universities, research institutes, and other undertaking research is underpinned by the highest standards of rigour and integrity.
To find out more about how the University engages with the Concordat visit our ethics and integrity webpages .
Link to Concordat to Support Research Integrity
The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers ,
commonly known as the Researcher Development Concordat, is an agreement
between stakeholders to improve the employment and support for researchers and
researcher careers in higher education in the UK.
The Researcher Development Concordat sets out three
clear principles of environment and
culture, employment, and professional and career
development that it expects signatories to adhere to.
The principles are
underpinned by obligations for the four key stakeholder
groups, funders, institutions, researchers and managers
of researchers, to realise the aims of the Concordat.
The HR Excellence in Research Award is a voluntary
initiative which recognises the University’s commitment to improving working
conditions and providing career development opportunities for research staff.
The initiative is an important mechanism for implementing the principles of the
Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and enhance Research
Culture at Northumbria.
Northumbria University has been a signatory of the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA)
since July 2021, supporting its aims of improving the ways in which the outputs
of scholarly research are evaluated.
DORA’s mission is to advance practical and robust
approaches to research assessment across all disciplines, making
recommendations on how to responsibly use metrics and promote consistency and
transparency in decision-making.
Recommendations include recognising the value
and impact of all research outputs, not just journal articles, and considering
a wide range of indicators beyond quantitative bibliometric indicators that are
often flawed as proxies of quality.
At Northumbria, our commitment to DORA is
closely linked to our work to promote understanding of responsible researchassessment .
Link to San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA)
The Technician Commitment is
a sector wide higher education initiative which aims to ensure visibility,
recognition, career development and sustainability for technicians working in
higher education and research, across all disciplines.
Over 120 UK
universities, research institutes and funders have signed up to the commitment
and documented their pledges through their Technician Commitment action plans.
Northumbria University have been proud signatories since 2021.
To find out more about our Technician
Commitment work at Northumbria University, please visit our web page.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us:
Northumbria University is a research-intensive University that unlocks potential for all, changing lives regionally, nationally and internationally.
Named UK University of the Year 2022 by Times Higher Education and Modern University of the Year 2025 by The Times and The Sunday Times, it is based in Newcastle upon Tyne, with an additional campus in London.
Originating from Rutherford College (founded in 1880), Northumbria is ranked in the UK’s top 25 for research power and graduate employment.
The university works with leading employers like Nike, IBM, and the NHS, and is a top UK institution for graduate start-ups.
Northumbria attracts students from 137 countries and collaborates globally with higher education institutions.
Our Strategy 2030
Leadership and Governance
Our Campuses
History of Northumbria
Places and Partnerships
Academic Departments
Our People
University Services
Newsroom
Equality and Diversity
Technician Commitment Place & Partnerships Access & Participation Plan Newspaper News & Events Environmental Sustainability Equality & Diversity Travel & Parking Student Charter
Technician Commitment
Place & Partnerships
Access & Participation Plan
Newspaper
News & Events
Environmental Sustainability
Equality & Diversity
Travel & Parking
Student Charter

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/university-strategy:
“A BOLD AMBITIOUS STATEMENT OF OUR FUTURE.” - ANDY LONG, OUR VICE-CHANCELLOR AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE.
THREE INTERCONNECTED STRATEGIC AMBITIONS WILL DRIVE OUR 2030 UNIVERSITY STRATEGY.
ADVOCATING, LEARNING, MAKING A DIFFERENCE.
FROM FOUNDATION YEAR TO THE ONE PLANET PHD, TO POLICY-INFORMING RESEARCH AND BEYOND.
BUILDING SKILLS AND NETWORKS TO MAKE IT IN THE FASHION INDUSTRY.
"A BOLD AND AMBITIOUS STATEMENT OF OUR FUTURE"
Professor Andy Long - Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive.
OUR MISSION
Northumbria’s enduring purpose
We change lives through education and research, tackling the global challenges of our age to transform society and the economy.
OUR VISION
Northumbria University in 2030
Through our world-leading research and transformative education, Northumbria University enables people from all backgrounds to succeed and supports businesses and communities in the North East, London and beyond to thrive.
click to view Our Strategic Ambitions and Our Commitments in a different format
Featuring our current staff, students, alumni and partners, these stories bring our strategy to life.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/our-partners:
We have a strong civic history
which we are keen to build upon.
We are committed to playing our part in the
future of our place by working together as a community with our partners
contributing and shaping the region’s economic and societal
development.
Through
our role in place we will continue our transformative impact on the city of
Newcastle and the wider North-East region through:
For more information please contact:
Alona Welby , Head of Partnerships, Policy and
Stakeholder Management
Sue Graham , Partnerships, Policy and Stakeholder
Manager
Andrew Leigh , Partnerships, Policy and Stakeholder
Manager
Stevie Smith , Collaborative Newcastle Universities Agreement (CNUA) Programme
Lead
Cultural Partnerships
Regional Partnerships

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/leadership-governance:
It ensures accountability of the Executive functions.
Our Governors are drawn from a wide range of academic and non-academic backgrounds, with most of them external to the University.
The Chair of the Board is Dr Roberta Blackman-Woods .
Our Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive is Professor Andy Long .
He is the principal academic and administrative officer of the University - responsible to, and appointed by, the Board.
He is also the University's Accountable Officer for the Office for Students (OfS).
Our University Executive advises the Vice-Chancellor on matters relating to the management of the University.
Its members are the senior academic and professional leadership of the University.
Our three academic Faculties are: Society and Culture; Science and Environment; Health & Wellbeing.
Our Professional Services are: Student, Library and Academic Services; Estates and Facilities; Finance and Strategic Planning; People and Organisational Culture; Digital, Technology and Transformation Services; Marketing; Research & Innovation Services and the Vice-Chancellor's Office.
The Chancellor of the University is Baroness Grey-Thompson of Eaglescliffe .

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/academic-departments:
The Department of Applied Sciences has an exciting and extensive portfolio of subjects including biology, biomedical sciences, chemistry, forensic science, food and nutritional sciences.
The Department of Architecture and Built Environment (ABE) operates at the intersection of culture and technology, engineering and society, and art and design in local, regional, and global contexts.
From creating fine art to conserving it; from animation to film, theatre and television, through to arts management and teaching, our Arts department is a dynamic and stimulating environment to study a wide range of courses.
Learn from world-renowned experts in Fine Art, Performance and Visual Cultures.
The Department of Computer and Information Sciences is home to all of our work in artificial intelligence, digital forensics and cyber security, digital networks, social computing, human–computer interaction, games, internet of things, big data and information sciences.
We specialise in cold and palaeo environments, social and cultural geographies, communities and resilience, environmental geochemistry and health, and ecology, through projects in more than 30 countries, from the poles to the tropics.
Our Department of Humanities includes the subject areas of History, English Literature, English Language and Linguistics, Creative Writing and American Studies.
Home to our teaching and research specialisms in mathematics, physics and astrophysics, electrical and electronic engineering, mobile communication, microelectronic, renewable and sustainable energy technologies, and advanced materials.
Mechanical and Construction Engineering at Northumbria University encompasses all of our work in Mechanical, Civil, Automotive, Construction and Architectural Engineering, as well as project management.
Newcastle Business School at Northumbria University has a global reputation for delivering some of the best business management education in the UK.
Northumbria Law School is one of the largest law schools in the UK, with a national and international reputation for excellence in legal education for those interested in studying law.
Our School of Design covers Industrial, Fashion, Communication and Innovation Design.
With alumni including Apple’s Sir Jonathan Ive, principal designer of the iPad, iPhone and iMac, our design community examines design in the context of use, beauty and social and cultural contexts.
The School of Design, Arts and Creative Industries brings together innovative, inter-disciplinary research and experiential education in pursuit of the betterment of people, place, cultures, and societies
Northumbria University is well-established with highly rated Nursing Midwifery Council (NMC) and Health Professional Council (HPC) approved events.
Our BSc nursing programmes are highly ranked in the UK league tables and are accredited by the Royal College of Nursing.
The British Psychological Society has accredited a number of our programmes.
We cover psychology and its various specialisms including health, occupational, organisational and sport & exercise psychology.
We offer an extensive range of courses in Criminology, Sociology, and International Relations and Development.
Award-winning global research and partnerships provide the real world experience to drive positive social change on an international level.
We're at the forefront of high-quality professional education, innovation and research in social work, social care, education, lifelong learning, public health and community wellbeing.
With a strong reputation for teaching and research excellence, our range of innovative and exciting programmes produce global graduates who have benefited from learning, teaching and “cutting edge” facilities, described as some of the best in the country.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/university-services:
Research and Innovation Services works with academic colleagues and with industry clients to create and apply knowledge for the benefit of society, culture and the economy....
Expert services working together to enable academic and student success, Student, Library and Academic Services (SLAS) covers a broad range of academic and student support activity.
We have a particular focus on on-programme student support and success and also on the management and quality of academic learning and teaching.
.....
Norman Managed Services
Global Marketing and Business (GMB) supports the University’s strategic ambitions around global reputation, market position and revenue streams.
The Service consists of five functional teams - Brand & Marketing, Corporate Communications & Reputation Management, Global Partnerships, International Recruitment and Student Recruitment & Applicant Services.
Useful links:

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/history-of-northumbria:
Northumbria's international reputation as a leading British university is the result of a distinctive combination of outstanding academic research and teaching, innovative programmes, traditional values and social and cultural diversity.
Since its foundation in the historic City of Newcastle upon Tyne, the University has developed into a successful regional, national and international institution.
History Originally known as Newcastle Polytechnic, the University was formed in 1969 from the amalgamation of three regional colleges: Rutherford College of Technology, the College of Art & Industrial Design, and the Municipal College of Commerce.
These colleges themselves had origins which were deeply rooted in the region.
The practical and vocational training needs of local industry had stimulated the development of relevant post-school education as far back as the nineteenth century.
Building on these firm foundations, the Polytechnic became one of the leading institutions of its type in the UK.
It became a major centre for the initial training of teachers with the incorporation of the City College of Education in 1974, and subsequently the Northern Counties College of Education in 1976.
In 1976 the Polytechnic, which already offered nurse training, began occupational therapy and physiotherapy training.
September 1992 marked the inauguration of the University when the Polytechnic was awarded university status and became Northumbria University.
In 1995 the incorporation of the Bede, Newcastle and Northumbria College of Health Studies was transferred into the University.
A book providing a detailed account of the history of Northumbria University has been published by Northumbria University Press.
Rutherford's Ladder- the Making of Northumbria University, 1871-1996 charts the early history of Northumbria University and the academic institutions from which it was created.
Largest Regional University By the year 2000 Northumbria University was the largest university in the North East of England, with a broad portfolio of courses and a rich cultural diversity in its student population.
Northumbria has a student population of around 32,000 with 3,300 overseas students on our Newcastle campuses and a further 3,000 studying on University programmes in their own countries.
Growth in recent years has been both impressive and carefully managed as part of the University's overall strategic development and in the context of a careful review of our academic portfolio.
Courses have been examined for their relevance and value to society and we are now offering programmes in all of the UK's 30 most popular subjects.
Northumbria is the leading provider of high-calibre graduates to business, industry and the professions in the North East of England and one of the highest nationally.
Academic Profile Teaching and research activities are managed by four faculties: Arts, Design and Social Sciences; Engineering and Environment; Business and Law; and Health and Life Sciences.
The highest standards have been maintained, with an excellent result in a recent Institutional Audit by the Quality Assurance Agency.
The professional standing of our programmes has been endorsed with accreditation from over 30 professional bodies.
Northumbria's success in learning and teaching is underpinned by a range of professional services, with award-winning support from the library, and a world class IT infrastructure providing wireless coverage throughout.
Research and Enterprise Research and enterprise activities are a major priority and the University today enjoys a significant number of commercial and professional collaborations and partnerships.
Northumbria University is constantly developing corporate learning partnerships and levels of consultancy and training has seen a sustained increase in recent years.
The Estate Since the start of this century, the University has consolidated its presence on two major campuses in Newcastle upon Tyne - one in the city centre and the other in a suburban location on the edge of the city, at Coach Lane.
Clear academic success and financial growth has enabled the University to make significant investment in its estate, extending the City Campus on to a new site with two magnificent new buildings.
The University is one of North East England's major employers.
There is ongoing refurbishment of existing teaching facilities, walkways and shared spaces.
The two city centre sites have been unified into one integrated campus with the building of an iconic footbridge across Newcastle's central motorway.
Other developments included the landscaping and pedestrianisation of the City Campus, improvements to the academic accommodation and the building of a new £31m sports centre for the benefit of staff, students and members of the public.
This outstanding facility, Sport Central, opened in September 2010.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/contact-us:
Any call into any of the below services will be recorded for training and quality purposes.
Any calls that are recorded will be automatically deleted after 6 months
If you are a current Northumbria student you can access the relevant privacy notice here
If you are a prospective student (pre or post
application) you can access the relevant privacy notice here
Tel: 0191 227 4209 Contact Form
Tel: 0191 227 4209
Contact Form
Please visit our webpage first before contacting us.
There is a wealth of information that can help you.
Visit Webpage Tel: 0191 406 0901
Visit Webpage
Tel: 0191 406 0901
Tel: 0191 227 4646 Contact Form
Tel: 0191 227 4646
Tel: 0191 215 6300 For
emergency situations involving our students (including
whilst on placement –
serious incidents or concerns about students) please call
3200 (0191 227
3200*).
Campus security is a 24 hours service, 365 days per
year.
Use the international dialling code +44 at the start of this
number when calling from outside of the UK.
Tel: 0191 215 6300
For
emergency situations involving our students (including
whilst on placement –
serious incidents or concerns about students) please call
3200 (0191 227
3200*).
Visit Webpage Tel: 0191 300 2441 Enquiry Form
Tel: 0191 300 2441
Enquiry Form
Please
complete the following application form and a representative will be in touch
as soon as possible.
Application Form
Tel: 0191 215 6300 Contact Form
For any other enquiry that cannot be resolved by
using the contact details above, or if your query is a general one then please
contact our switchboard on 0191 232 6002 who will be happy to direct your call.
Northumbria University, Sutherland Building, Northumberland Road, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, NE1 8ST Tel: +44 (191) 232 6002 Fax: +44 (191) 227 3903
Northumbria University, Benton, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, NE7 7XA Tel: +44 (191) 232 6002 Fax: +44 (191) 227 3903
Northumbria University, London Campus, 110 -114 Middlesex Street, Middlesex Street, London, E1 7HT Tel: +44 (191) 349 5901
Northumbria University Amsterdam Campus, Corry Tendeloo Building (CTH), Fraijlemaborg 133, 1102 CV, Amsterdam, The Netherlands Tel: +31 (0) 207038280 If you are a current
student at Northumbria please contact us through the Ask4Help Online section of
your student portal via this link .
For all other enquiries please complete our Contact Form .
If you are a current
student at Northumbria please contact us through the Ask4Help Online section of
your student portal via this link .
How to get here
Open Day Events
Security Service

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/online-shop:
Cookie help us provide, improve, and protect our website.
By using our services, you agree to our cookie policy .
X
£14.00
Official Northumbria University merchandise ordering system powered by Creative Emporium on behalf of Northumbria University
Disclaimer | Privacy | Copyright Notice | Accessibility | Freedom of Information | Charitable Status | Royal Charter Number : XR11395
Infinity Incorporated Ltd is the legal owner of Northumbria University e-shop.
Company number 3582519

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/news-events/news:
Visit our Newsroom
Read our Newspaper
Latest News and Features from Northumbria University
This is the place to find all the latest news releases, feature articles, expert comment, and video and audio clips from Northumbria University.
You’ll find news about our student and graduate successes, business and research activity, feature articles showcasing our alumni and academic staff, and general University news.
If you have a media enquiry please visit our Media Staff contacts page
Scientists, engineers and researchers using and developing Ground Penetrating Radar (GPR) technology…
Northumbria University is producing award-winning product designers, as students pick up accolades…
A Northumbria University academic is helping to ensure the UK’s ambitions to build a thriving…
With the global population expected to reach 10 billion by 2050 and crop yields declining annually,…
A new student-led group to develop and promote ways to work together to make Newcastle the…
Learners from a pioneering and inclusive programme recording the importance of public involvement…
An outreach group from Northumbria University is celebrating a decade of STEM engagement in…
Plans to open a new national centre for writing will take a big step forward next week as North…

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/news-events/events:
If you’re interested in holding an event at Northumbria, our award-winning Campus houses purpose-built and versatile spaces.
We offer a wide range of event and conferencing services, which are supported by a dedicated team of event management experts.
Please click here for further information.
For enquiries related to careers events, please contact nucareers@northumbria.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/newspaper:
VISIT OUR NEWSROOM
The newspaper also includes interviews, listings, previews, health and lifestyle features and much more.
Summer 2025
Spring 2025
Autumn 2024
Born of Ambition
Driving change.
Inspiring potential.
Next Generation Space Innovation
Summer 2024
Autumn 2023
Summer 2023
A University Transformed
Spring 2023 Supplement
Spring 2023
Autumn 2022
Summer 2022
Spring 2022
Autumn 2021
Summer 2021
Partner of Choice
Supplement 2021
Spring 2021
Spring/Summer 2020
Autumn 2019
Summer 2019
Spring 2019
TIMES HIGHER EDUCATION SUPPLEMENT
Download and read now
Autumn 2018
Summer 2018
Spring 2018
Autumn 2017
Summer 2017
Spring 2017
Autumn 2016
Download a copy
Summer 2016
Spring 2016
Best of 2015
Autumn 2015
Summer 2015
Spring 2015
Autumn 2014
Summer 2014
Spring 2014
Autumn 2013

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/environmental-sustainability:
Our University Strategy states our commitment to optimising our contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through our research, teaching, campus and operations.
We are a signatory of the SDG Accord and we continue to develop our portfolio of sustainability initiatives.
Our Environmental Sustainability Policy considers the impact our activities have on the wider environment and aims to minimise this impact.
View the latest Annual Sustainability Report .
Find out more about some of the work Northumbria University is leading in the
fight against climate change.
Discover how our activities support each of the Sustainable Development Goals.
Our sustainability journey to date has seen some excellent results:
56% carbon reduction, 33% gas reduction and a 30% electricity reduction since 2014/15.
Northumbria members can discover some of the ways that they can get involved with our sustainability at Northumbria:

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/social-media:
At Northumbria we love connecting with everyone on our social media channels .
We love seeing pictures of life at uni, student placements, students telling us they have applied, career success stories, academic research, our societies, & sports team, the campus, city, coast and country adventures our staff and students go on or alumni reunions etc.
We try and engage with all the great content and would love for you to get involved in the online Northumbria community by tagging us in your posts or using our community hashtags #IAmNorthumbria and #TakeOnTomorrow .
Our main social media channels are actively monitored Monday to Friday between 9am – 5pm.
If you have any questions for the team please email bc.content@northumbria.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/visit-our-newsroom:
The information on this page is intended for journalists, press and media.
Click YES to get to the newsroom.
If you click NO you will come back to Mynewsdesk.com.
Northumbria University, Newcastle, is proud to celebrate the achievements of the third cohort of TIME-OUT graduates, a unique international programme that prepares elite basketball players for life and careers beyond the sport.
Developed by Northumbria, Newcastle Business School in partnership with FIBA Europe - the European office of the Basketball World Governing body - TIME-OUT equips profes
Northumbria University academics Dr Kate Hackett and Dr Allison Farnworth have won Senior Clinical and Practitioner Research Awards from the NIHR, supporting research into nature-based health interventions and improved reproductive care, respectively, highlighting the university's commitment to impactful healthcare research.
Two Northumbria students have been announced as winner at the RIBA North East Student Awards for RIBA Part 1 and RIBA Part 2.
These wins continue a successful run for our Architecture students, following recognition at the Architects for Health Student Design Awards and the RIBAJ/Future Architects Film Competition 2025.
Northumbria University is expanding and enhancing the support it provides to students receiving their A-level, AS-level, VTQ and T-level results next week.
This year, for the first time, staff will be based at schools and colleges across the region.
They will meet students as they receive their results and will be able to make on-the-spot offers of a place at Northumbria to eligible students.
Researchers are set to shine a different kind of light on the farming industry after receiving funding to explore how fluorescent materials used in TV and phone screens can be used to detect the presence of pesticides and herbicides in food production.
Dr Elisabeth Griffiths, Associate Professor at Northumbria University, was honoured as a National Teaching Fellow by Advance HE for her transformative work in inclusive legal education, particularly enhancing disability inclusion and employability through innovative, collaborative teaching practices.
Northumbria University is spearheading vital research to enhance counter-fraud strategies within the NHS in England, aiming to reduce financial losses, protect public trust, and safeguard the quality and safety of healthcare services.
Moving to uni soon?
Student Fi gives you her top tips for what to bring to your uni accommodation, and swipe along for a handy checklist of things to consider so you don’t forget the essentials*.
✅

If you are moving into a house/flat share then you may want to check with flatmates what they are bringing and agree together who gets what so you dont end up with 6 wooden spoons - or arrange a shopping trip together when you arrive.
*You may not need or want everything on the list and it is just a guide to help give you an idea of what you might need.
Click the link in our bio for more tips for new students.
#IAmNorthumbria

...
#NorthumbriaUniversity #NorthumbriaUni #StudentLife #MovingEssentials #UniEssentials #UniLife
New students??
Here’s what you missed!
⬇️ 
 
Over the past few months, Northumbria students have been busy winning awards🏆, launching businesses 💼, travelling across the globe🌍, and networking with key industry professionals 👔 
 
Business graduate, Jack Fenwick is shaking up the North East coffee scene with his new venture, Daily Pour☕ 
 
He successfully combined his love of coffee and music to create a brand which celebrates both.
Each bag of Daily Pour coffee features artwork by established graffiti artists from the North East, as well as a QR code to a curated music playlist 🎧 
 
Fancy a cuppa, or want the full scoop on what’s been happening on and off campus?
Click the link in bio and skip to page 16 🗞️
 
#NorthumbriaUniversityNews #Newspaper #StudentExperience
We know starting University can be daunting, especially if you are arriving from another country or city within the UK, so to help our students get their Northumbria journey off to the best start, we’ve created a useful guide to help you navigate through your first few days and weeks with us.
We’ve detailed some of the key things you will need to do once you arrive and other recommendations to help you settle into your new home away from home.
Don’t forget to tag and share this post with any friends it may be useful to, or save it, so you can refer back to it at a later date!
Click the link in our bio to watch the full video version.
#internationalstudent #internationalstudents #northumbriastudent #northumbria #northumbriauni #studyintheuk #studyabroad #ukeducation #liveabroad #studyinengland #internationalstudents #livingintheuk #iamnu #overseaseducation #internationalstudentguides #arrivingintheuk #welcomeweek #freshersweek #northumbriainduction #meetandgreet
We would like to wish all of our Indonesian staff, students, alumni, and followers a very #HappyIndependenceDay

The holiday celebrates Indonesia's independence, and is referred to by Indonesians as Tujuhbelas Agustus (17th of August) or Hari Merdeka (Independence Day).
#indonesianindependenceday #indonesianindependenceday2025 #happyindependenceindonesia #happyindependence #tujubelasagustus #harimerdeka
You need a uni place and we’re literally right here hyping you up to call 📞✨ We’re open rn, no cap.
Call 0800 085 1085

Join Northumbria through Clearing.
We still have Clearing spaces available.
#Clearing #Alevels #ResultsDay
Welcome to all our new Northumbria students - you’re about to have the best time!
Drop your course in the comments and find your future mates 👇 

Geordie mode: FULLY ACTIVATED ⚫ ⚪ #IAmNorthumbria

#NorthumbriaUni #Newcastle #UniLife #Freshers2025 #StudentLife  #NewcastleLife #StudentVibes #UniMemories #Freshers
When someone asks if our clearing hotline team is ready to help you secure your uni place 💅✨ Plot twist: We’re always ready and we’re absolutely here for it!
Your dream course is just one call away🎓 No stress, just success!
Northumbria’s Clearing hotline number is 08000851085
 
Here’s what information you will need when you call our Clearing hotline:
✅ Your name + contact details
✅ UCAS ID or student number
✅ Course you’re interested in
✅ Your qualifications so far
 
- You’ll be speaking to real Northumbria staff
- Only you can make the call, unless you’ve given us permission for someone else to speak on your behalf
- Stay calm, ask questions, and know we’re here to help

#UniClearing #ClearingHotline #MainCharacterEnergy #UniLife #StudentLife #GimmeGimmeMore #UniversityClearing #UCAS #ResultsDay #StudentSupport #UniTok #ClearingVibes #WeGotYou” #NorthumbriaUni #NorthumbriaUniversity
📞 “Areet pet, Northumbria Uni Confirmation and Clearing hotline - how can wor help ya?”
5 Tips to be prepared this A-Level Results day - Even if you think you wont need it!
📞 “Areet pet, Northumbria Uni Confirmation and Clearing hotline - how can a help ya?”

If you’re ringing a Geordie uni on Results Day, expect this level of charm 😂💁‍♀️

Northumbria’s Clearing hotline number is 0800 085 1085
 
This vid is a bit of fun (we promise it’s not exactly like this) BUT here’s what will actually happen when you call our Clearing hotline and what information you will need:
✅ Your name + contact details
✅ UCAS ID or student number
✅ Course you’re interested in
✅ Your qualifications so far
 
- You’ll be speaking to real Northumbria staff
- Only you can make the call, unless you’ve given us permission for someone else to speak on your behalf
- Stay calm, ask questions, and know we’re here to help (no daft questions, promise)
 
So if you’re thinking about joining us in Newcastle this September — don’t stress, we’ve got you ❤️
 
Northumbria is open for Clearing 2025
Whether you’re just beginning your university journey or rethinking your choices, now’s the time to research, plan, and consider your options.
Search ‘Northumbria Uni Clearing’ in your browser to visit our website.
If you’re a new UK/Home student applying for full-time undergraduate study in 2025/26 after 5 July, register as a Clearing VIP & you could be eligible to apply for a £4,500 scholarship - T&Cs Apply so check the website for details.
If you don’t sign up as a VIP then check if you are eligible to apply for our NU Support Scholarship worth £4,000!
Again T&Cs apply - check our website for full details.
All first-year Undergraduate students studying at our Newcastle Campus are guaranteed a place in University owned accommodation if they apply before Midnight 17 Aug 2025.
#Clearing #ResultsDay #UCASClearing #NorthumbriaUni #GeordieHotline #GenZUniversity #UniBound #Clearing2025 #NewcastleVibes #NorthumbriaUniversity
With results day fast approaching, many students and parents will be anxiously awaiting grades.
This year, for the first time, our expert staff will be based at schools and colleges across the North East, meeting students as they receive their results.
They will provide advice and guidance and will be able to make on-the-spot offers of a place at Northumbria to eligible students, removing the need for them to call the University or wait for a response.
📢 Our staff will be based at...
NORTHUMBERLAND AND TYNESIDE
👉 NCG – Newcastle Sixth Form College​ 
👉 Gosforth Academy, Newcastle 
👉 Gateshead College​ 
👉 Emmanuel College​, Gateshead 
👉 Bede Academy, Blyth 

WEARSIDE 
👉 City of Sunderland College (Bede Campus) 
👉 St Robert of Newminster Roman Catholic School​, Washington 

DURHAM AND TEESSIDE
👉 Durham Sixth Form Centre ​ 
👉 Hartlepool Sixth Form College (EPNE)​ 
👉 Queen Elizabeth Sixth Form, Darlington 

Don't worry if you aren't based at any of these schools and colleges.
As well as providing this in-person support, staff will also be on hand to answer phone calls through Northumbria’s popular Clearing Hotline.
Looking into your Clearing options?
You might only need one once you hear what’s waiting for you at Northumbria!
Firstly - You could be eligible to apply for the Support Scholarship giving you £4000 to help with your studies - Check website for T&Cs.
Secondly - All first-year Undergraduate students studying at our Newcastle campuses are guaranteed a place in University owned accommodation if they apply before Midnight 17th August 2025.
Oh and that’s not all!
If you pre-register as a Clearing VIP, you could be eligible to apply for our VIP Scholarship worth £4,500!
Again Terms and Conditions apply so check the website.
Registering as a Clearing VIP also has other perks: 
- You’ll get early access to submit your details before results day — so when the big day arrives, you’re already ahead.
- You can book onto our Clearing Pop-up event at our City Campus on Thursday 7th August.
- Get exclusive on-demand access to the Clearing Webinar recording to watch whenever it suits you.
- We’ll send you a link to view and download your free Clearing Toolkit packed with checklists, key dates, and insider tips.
It’s everything you need to stay in control and feel prepared.
- Lastly - On Results Day, we’ll send you real-time updates on course availability, entry requirements, and how to get in touch.
Want to become a Clearing VIP - hit the link in bio for all the details

#NorthumbriaUniversity #NorthumbriaUni #UCASClearing #ALevels #ExamResults #Clearing2025 #UCAS #ALevelResults #ResultsDay #UKUniversities #StudentLife #ClearingTips #GetClearingReady #UniVibes #UniSearch #NewcastleUni #StudyInTheUK #SixthFormLife #ClearingHelp #ALevelResultsDay #StudyInNewcastle
Northumbria University is a research-intensive university that unlocks potential for all, changing lives regionally, nationally and internationally.
Northumbria University, Newcastle NE1 8ST Newcastle upon Tyne United Kingdom
When you choose to create a user account and follow a newsroom your personal data will be used by us and the owner of the newsroom, for you to receive news and updates according to your subscription settings.
To learn more about this, please read our Privacy Policy , which applies to our use of your personal data, and our Privacy Policy for Contacts , which applies to the use of your personal data by the owner of the newsroom you follow.
Please note that our Terms of Use apply to all use of our services.
You can withdraw your consent at any time by unsubscribing or deleting your account.
Email sent to __email__.
Click the link there to follow Northumbria University, Newcastle.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/better-northumbria/campus-planning-and-development:
Over the last decade, Northumbria has invested more than £250m in its campuses to provide students with a world-class experience during their time with the University and ensure students’ needs are at the heart of new developments.
A number of flagship campus projects have been completed in the last two years, including Student Central at City Campus Library and the £7m Computer and Information Sciences Building, and most recently the new Architecture Studios at Sutherland Building.
Other exciting projects which have recently been completed include a 24/7 computer hub at Northumberland Building and the refurbishment of the University Gallery.
Our bold and ambitious strategy for our campuses stands ready to take on tomorrow.
Computer and Information Sciences Building
Architecture Studios
Northumberland Hub
Student Central
University Gallery

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/facilities-services/safety-on-campus/crime-prevention-team-contact-form:
Every year, thousands of Northumbria students live alongside the local community adding a valuable cultural and economic contribution to the City.
In most cases this relationship is a harmonious one, built on respect for neighbours and the different lives that each lead.
We work closely with Newcastle Council, Northumbria Police, and Newcastle University to help reduce the impact of anti-social behaviour of students in the local community.
Should you experience any issues that you feel you cannot resolve through neighbourly conversation, please report your concerns to the University Crime Prevention Team in the form below.
Please be assured that we take all complaints seriously, including reports of Northumbria students engaging in of anti-social behaviour.
Operation Oak
Operation Oak is a police-led initiative
funded by Northumbria and Newcastle Universities.
It is a dedicated resource
which carries out high-visibility patrols in residential areas that are heavily
populated by students, such as Jesmond, Heaton, Sandyford, Shieldfield and
Ouseburn.
The operation is aimed at tackling
student-related antisocial behaviour and/or disorder along with addressing any
vulnerabilities or safeguarding concerns and offering crime prevention advice.
Operation Oak currently operates on
Wednesday, Friday and Saturday nights from 22.00 – 04.00 hours.
How to report an incident
In the case of
an Emergency you should always call 999.
If you feel
there is a serious problem, please contact Northumbria Police by calling 101 or
using the Northumbria Police online reporting tool.
Any incidents
which are reported via 101 or other Police reporting methods will be directed
immediately to Operation Oak on nights when the patrol is in operation.
You can also
advise the University of an incident via the form below and we will investigate
further.
Report of Noise Nuisance or Antisocial Behaviour - Contact the Crime Prevention Team:
Newcastle
    City Council Noise Related Issues: 0191 278 7878 (available
    08:30 – 16:30 Mon – Fri ) - Calls received after the times stated will be
    directed to a 24-hour call centre staffed by Your Homes Newcastle and will
    be forwarded for investigation the following working day.
Litter/Rubbish
    problems – 0191 278 7878 ( ask for Envirocall ) Criminal
    Damage, Vandalism or Anti-Social Behaviour – Northumbria
    Police 101
Living in the Community leaflet
Antisocial Behaviour and Noise Nuisance
Managing Student Conduct
Statement from Northumbria University

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/leadership-governance/vice-chancellors-office/governance-services:
The Board of Governors oversees the activities of the University and determines its strategic direction.
The powers of the Board are set out in the Instrument and Articles of Government .
The Board has a series of committees which deal with the detailed business of the Board, and the University Executive and the Academic Board have a series of committees and groups reporting into them.
Governance Services is not responsible for the development and review of the wide range of policies which provide a framework for University business.
However, it does provide a framework in which policies should be formulated, structured, approved and reviewed, as well as a one-stop document library through which the University’s key policies and regulations can be accessed.
The University is a Higher Education Corporation in accordance with the Education Reform Act 1988.
This is a distinct model of incorporation which applies to the majority of universities which were former polytechnics and subject to local authority control prior to the granting of university status in 1992 in the Further and Higher Education Act 1992.
There are a number of benefits to establishing a subsidiary company, either as a company limited by guarantee, or one with or without a share capital.
Northumbria University is an 'exempt charity' as defined in the Charities Act 1993 (as amended by the Charities Act 1996).
Northumbria’s approach to a range of Safeguarding legislation and regulatory guidance, including how to report concerns and allegations about possible abuse and/or neglect.
Northumbria’s response to the prevent duty guidance and OfS's Prevent Duty Monitoring Framework.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/leadership-governance/vice-chancellors-office/governance-services/safeguarding:
Safeguarding is about protecting children, young people and vulnerable adults from abuse or neglect.
Everybody has the right to be safe no matter who they are or what their circumstances.
Safeguarding is a consideration for a range of University activities and we are all responsible for the safety of under-18s and vulnerable adults.
We must ensure that we are doing all we can to protect the most vulnerable members of our society.
The University's Safeguarding arrangements include risk–based policies and procedures that focus on University activities that involve children and vulnerable adults.
A child is anyone who has not yet reached their 18th birthday.
The fact that a child has reached 16 years of age, is living independently or is in further education, is a member of the armed forces, is in hospital or in custody in the secure estate, does not change his/her status or entitlements to services or protection.[1]
An adult is any person aged 18 or over.
Some adults may be vulnerable and entitled to be safeguarded because they are unable to protect themselves against significant harm or exploitation.[2] Any adult can suffer neglect or be subjected to abuse.
There are many factors which can increase an individual’s vulnerability: indicators of possible vulnerability include:
When considering if an adult is vulnerable and requires safeguarding, it is important to consider whether the adult has support needs because of one of the issues listed above, regardless of whether support is currently being provided.
The University’s key policies and procedures linked to safeguarding are: University Safeguarding Policy and Procedure Safe recruitment procedures for staff and students, including DBS checks Recruitment of ex-offenders policies for staff and students Our safeguarding arrangements also include: Safeguarding awareness training including how to recognise possible signs of abuse A Safeguarding Behaviour Code Clear reporting channels for reporting concerns and/or allegations, all of which are treated in confidence by trained Designated Safeguarding Officers Further information on the above items can be found in the table below and/or in the weblinks above.
The University’s key policies and procedures linked to safeguarding are:
Our safeguarding arrangements also include:
Some Northumbria students and staff may be under 18 (legally classed as a child) or meet the definition of a vulnerable adult.
Any
activity across the university could have safeguarding implications.
Below
are some examples: recruitment and outreach activities in schools and colleges fieldtrips participation in research or consultancy activities sporting or voluntary activities on and off campus by being taught or cared for by students training to enter Education or Health services, as part of their academic studies.
Examples of
University procedures that cover how we engage with children and vulnerable
adults include: Student recruitment stage – at
    application and/or enrolment, all under 18s are identified and flagged
    with a referral to Student Support and Wellbeing (“SSW”).
Those
    students who may meet the vulnerable adult definition (e.g.
those with an
    identified disability) are referred to the Disability Team within SSW to
    ensure that a DSSR (Disabled Student Support Recommendations) is prepared
    with them and provided to the appropriate Faculty.
Health and Safety Risk  Assessments (for staff only) for University activities should consider and include any
    additional risks/controls specific to under 18s or vulnerable adults Our Research Ethics procedure
    ensures that the involvement of under 18s and vulnerable adults is
    identified at an early stage, with clear policy guidance on related
    matters (e.g.
obtaining consent, carrying out DBS checks, etc) The University has a Safeguarding
    Behaviour Code which gives general guidance for dealing with children and
    vulnerable adults.
Online training is available for
    staff to raise awareness of safeguarding issues and how to recognise
    possible signs of abuse.
Below
are some examples:
Examples of
University procedures that cover how we engage with children and vulnerable
adults include:
The safe recruitment of staff and students is an important part of the University’s safeguarding arrangements.
The Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) helps employers make safer recruitment decisions and prevent unsuitable people from working with vulnerable groups, including children.
It replaced the Criminal Records Bureau (CRB) and Independent Safeguarding Authority (ISA).
A DBS check is a pre-appointment safe recruitment check which is carried out on all staff and students (including volunteers) involved in “regulated activity” (i.e.
close and unsupervised contact with under 18s and vulnerable groups which cannot be undertaken by a person on the DBS’s Barred List).
The University has appropriate policies and procedures for the recruitment of ex-offenders.
For queries about staff DBS checks Staff DBS applications are administered by HR.
For further information please contact: Johanna Turl, Human Resources.
Telephone: 0191 227 4518.
Email: johanna.turl@northumbria.ac.uk For queries about student DBS checks (incl.
Post Graduate students and student volunteers) The University's Registry Records and Returns webpages provide further information on the DBS Policy and Procedures (Students) and related DBS Information for Students and Applicants .
For queries about staff DBS checks
Staff DBS applications are administered by HR.
Email: johanna.turl@northumbria.ac.uk
For queries about student DBS checks (incl.
Post Graduate students and student volunteers)
Northumbria University has a duty under the government’s Prevent Duty Guidance to safeguard our student community against the risk of radicalisation.
Prevent is a part of the government’s counter-terrorism strategy and aims to do three things: Respond to the ideological challenge of terrorism and the threat faced by the UK from those who promote it Prevent people from being drawn into terrorism and ensure they are given appropriate advice and support Work with a wide range of sectors (including education, criminal justice, faith, charities, the internet and health) where there are risks of radicalisation which need to be addressed More information about Prevent and the University's Prevent Duty policies and arrangements
Prevent is a part of the government’s counter-terrorism strategy and aims to do three things:
More information about Prevent and the University's Prevent Duty policies and arrangements
The University has separate DSOs for staff and students to
ensure that, where required, additional student welfare and staff wellbeing
support is put in place at the time of any safeguarding concerns arising.
Safeguarding Champions are also available to have an initial
discussion where you are unsure if your concern is related to Safeguarding and
there is no immediate risk.
Designated Safeguarding Officer (DSO)  and Safeguarding Champion contacts
It is important that everyone knows what to do if they suspect someone is being abused or neglected.
You may suspect that someone is being harmed or abused because: You have general concerns about someone's wellbeing You see or hear about something which could suggest abuse or neglect is taking place Someone tells you something has happened or is happening to them which could be abuse or neglect.
The University's " Signs and Symptoms of Abuse and Neglect " document also provides an overview of these indicators.
You may also like to talk to one of our Designated Safeguarding Officers (DSOs) about your concern.
If an individual is at imminent risk of harm, you should call Security on the emergency number (x3200).
When to refer If
you're a Northumbria University member of staff looking for more information on
raising concerns about a student, please see the Whento Refer guide on our intranet.
What we will do with the information raised in concerns The information contained in safeguarding concern or allegation may include information about a child or vulnerable adult, people known or unknown to them and information about the person raising the concern/allegation.
The information will initially be restricted to trained members of staff (i.e.
the relevant Designated Safeguarding Officer, the Principal Safeguarding Officer and his deputy) who will review the concern in line with safeguarding guidance and legislation.
Depending on the nature of the concern or allegation raised, the University may then: Contact the person raising the concern; Hold a
case conference to discuss the concern and agree what needs to be put in place
to protect the individual.
The case conference will involve a small number
of individual staff members from a range of University Service Departments
(e.g.
Human Resources, Student Library and Academic Services, Legal Services,
Security etc.) Be required to make
further referrals in line with our statutory duties including passing on the
details of the child or vulnerable adult to the Local Authority’s Children or
Adult Services, or in some circumstances, the Police and other agencies, where
there is an emergency situation.
All concerns and allegations raised will be treated in confidence.
Trusted Contacts At Northumbria, we believe that good health and wellbeing play an important part in academic and personal success.
To help us support our students there may be times when we need to speak to someone outside of the University if we have a significant concern about their safety or wellbeing.
We call the person who fulfils this role the Trusted Contact ; this is different from the Next of Kin, which all students are required to provide on enrolment, though the same person may fill both roles.
You may suspect that someone is being harmed or abused because:
If
you're a Northumbria University member of staff looking for more information on
raising concerns about a student, please see the Whento Refer guide on our intranet.
The information contained in safeguarding concern or allegation may include information about a child or vulnerable adult, people known or unknown to them and information about the person raising the concern/allegation.
Depending on the nature of the concern or allegation raised, the University may then:
Contact the person raising the concern;
Hold a
case conference to discuss the concern and agree what needs to be put in place
to protect the individual.
Human Resources, Student Library and Academic Services, Legal Services,
Security etc.)
Be required to make
further referrals in line with our statutory duties including passing on the
details of the child or vulnerable adult to the Local Authority’s Children or
Adult Services, or in some circumstances, the Police and other agencies, where
there is an emergency situation.
At Northumbria, we believe that good health and wellbeing play an important part in academic and personal success.
If you have a concern about a member of staff, and there is
not an imminent risk of harm, you should contact your HR Manager for your Faculty or Service.
You may also like to talk to one of our Designated Safeguarding Officers (DSOs) about your concern.
Human Resources, Legal Services,
Security etc.) Be required to make
further referrals in line with our statutory duties including passing on the
details of the child or vulnerable adult to the Local Authority’s Children or
Adult Services, or in some circumstances, the Police and other agencies, where
there is an emergency situation.
Any allegation made about a member of staff will be reported to the Local Authority “Designated Officer” at the relevant Local Authority's Children's Social Care Services, as required by law.
A ll concerns and allegations raised will be treated in confidence.
Human Resources, Legal Services,
Security etc.)
For general queries about the update of the University's Safeguarding arrangements, please contact Georgina Bailes , Secretary to the Board and Head of Governance who acts as the University's Principal Safeguarding Officer For information about safeguarding arrangements at NU Nursery, please contact Deanne Cook , Executive Childcare Manager (x4567) For information regarding Safeguarding and the effective use of IT
For general queries about the update of the University's Safeguarding arrangements, please contact Georgina Bailes , Secretary to the Board and Head of Governance who acts as the University's Principal Safeguarding Officer
For information about safeguarding arrangements at NU Nursery, please contact Deanne Cook , Executive Childcare Manager (x4567)
For information regarding Safeguarding and the effective use of IT
I have a concern but I’m scared to raise it in case I’m wrong – what should I do?
Tell us about it.
With safeguarding issues, historical cases have highlighted that it is better to think “what if I’m right?” rather than “what if I’m wrong?”.
Serious Case Reviews show that it is like gathering pieces of a jigsaw often over a long time period, with different agencies and organisations each holding a separate piece of the jigsaw.
Raising a concern allows the piece of the jigsaw to be considered by trained staff - Designated Safeguarding Officers - who will take appropriate action (such as making a referral to Children or Adult Services), which may include no action.
In some cases, it could lead to a person receiving much needed help and support at a difficult time (e.g.
domestic violence situations) or receiving a level of protection.
In other cases, there may not be sufficient information to take any action at the time but the information may be critical if any similar concerns are raised at a later date.
What is a Designated Safeguarding Officer (“DSO”)?
Northumbria University staff who are trained to receive and respond to reported concerns and/or allegations of abuse or neglect, and to make external referrals if required.
Our DSOs are located in areas most likely to deal with under 18s and vulnerable adults on a regular basis, including Student Life and Wellbeing, Student Recruitment and Sport, with additional DSOs located in Governance Services.
What is a DBS check and why is it required?
A DBS check is a pre-appointment safe recruitment check which is carried out on all staff and students, including volunteers, involved in “regulated activity” (i.e.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/health-safety:
The resources below describe how the University manages the risks to health and safety and are designed to assist University students, staff, visitors and contractors in ensuring risks associated with University activities are properly controlled, minimised or removed.
Find out more about who the Health and Safety team are, what we can do for you and how to get in touch with us.
View a comprehensive list of all University Health and Safety policies and codes of practice, as well as guidelines on how to best follow them.
Identify the process for Faculties and Departments to follow to ensure that all significant risks have been assessed and read advice on how to carry out the assessments.
This section provides guidance on how to report accidents or near misses that occur on campus.
Find information on the Fire Policy and evacuation procedures, fire exits and refuges, fire assembly points, personal emergency and evacuation plans and fire design guides.
Guidance for contractors and external partners working directly for the University - information on local policies, procedures, potential hazards and risks associated with working on University premises.
​​Northumbria University works with AcessAble to provide detailed accessibility information for all of our buildings on campus.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/equality-and-diversity:
Northumbria University is proud to be a multi-cultural community.
We value diversity and are determined to ensure that the opportunities we provide are open to all.
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) strongly underpins the University’s Strategy 2030.
Whilst we welcome the greater legislative protection which has been enacted in recent years at Northumbria we have long been aware that there is a compelling moral case for equality.
Therefore, as well as implementing our legislative duties we are striving to create a community that positively welcomes diversity by aiming to embed equality, diversity and inclusion into everything that we do.
We intend to become a Higher Education Institution which is recognised for its good practice in this area and are fully committed to enabling the development of a culture where we maximise the potential of all our staff and students.
INCLUSIVE NORTHUMBRIA UNIVERSITY • CHARTER MARKS AND PROGRAMMES • LEGISLATION, GOVERNANCE, AND REPORTING
Learn more about the range of EDI work taking place across the University.
EDI Activities
Colleague Equality Networks
AccessAble
Campus Access Guides
Inclusion Support for Students
Learning and Events
Northumbria University is a member of different quality charter marks and national schemes which aim to encourage an inclusive environment for work and study.
Follow the links below to find out more.
In this section you can access the policies, legislation, and governance arrangements framing our work on equality, diversity and inclusion, as well as all the relevant reports.
Legal Framework
Governance
Policies and Guidance
Reports and Data
Equality Impact Assessments

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/university-services/finance-team/value-for-money-for-our-students:
We have an ongoing and
clear focus on ensuring Value for Money (VfM) for our students, staff, and
other stakeholders including taxpayers.
Efficient and effective procurement of
goods and services is a key enabler of this, as is the effective use of our
resources including our estate.
But we know that Value for Money means much
more than this.
We continue to ensure that Northumbria adds value across all
its activities, through the student experience whilst studying, through support
for employability, and through ensuring that we are transparent about how we
use our resources.
The value of a Northumbria
University degree is not just confined to the immediate benefits of an
excellent student experience, access to opportunities across the University and
preparation for a successful career after graduation.
Rather it is a longer-term
investment in personal growth, skill development and intellectual curiosity
that lasts a lifetime.
A Northumbria degree provides graduates with the
knowledge, critical thinking abilities and practical skills needed to navigate
complex challenges in the workforce and beyond.
The
resources on this webpage are particularly designed for students and show where
our income comes from, how we spend our resources to support our objectives,
and how we monitor against these objectives to ensure we deliver value.
The
pages also provide information to help understand the inherently complicated
and interlinked areas of funding, fees, Value and VfM
STUDENT LOANS AND REPAYMENTS
WHERE DOES OUR INCOME COME FROM?
HOW IS INCOME SPENT?

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/northumbria-in-the-eu:
Northumbria is a global, outward looking university, research-rich, business-focussed and professional in outlook.
We are proud that since our foundation we have grown our links around the world connecting our students, academics and research with partners, business organisations and other Higher Education institutions across the globe.
We have over 190,000 alumni, from 167 countries.
Northumbria’s current student body numbers 34,000: 131 countries are represented, nearly 70% of all countries recognised by the United Nation.
We are global in every sense of the word.
Many come to our campuses here in Newcastle, enriching a city that is renowned across the globe as a culturally vibrant, friendly and safe place to study, work and live.
Our academic staff, many of whom are leaders in their fields, are repeatedly recognised for their outstanding work.
The University’s focus on research excellence has helped us to engage with, and to recruit, some of the most talented scholars across the globe - inspiring students, developing research, thinking across borders and finding solutions to global issues.
This international focus which sits at the heart of Northumbria is pivotal for this University.
That is why we were one of the few UK universities which supported the UK remaining within the European Union .
We are located in one of the few UK cities which voted to remain in Europe.
The UK’s higher education system remains one of the most successful in the world, and, like this University, it remains very much open for business globally.
We continue with our strong commitment to internationalism, including our valuable and long-standing links with Europe, whose residents among our staff and students are as welcome now as they have always been.
Northumbria's global community of staff and students are committed to welcoming all those who can contribute towards our vision and outward focus.
Professor Andrew Wathey CBE, Vice-Chancellor & Chief Executive, Northumbria University

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/access-and-participation-plan:
2024/25 - 2027/28
The Office for Students (OfS) has approved the University's Access and Participation Plan for the
period 2024/25 to 2027/28.
Please also see our accessible Access and Participation Plan Summary .
This Plan outlines the University’s commitment to widening
participation, providing equality of opportunity across the entire student
lifecycle, and ensuring continued commitment to improving fair access to higher
education in general.
An approved Plan must comply with Sections 30 to 32 of the
Higher Education and Research Act 2017 (HERA) and be published on the
University’s website for transparency.
Our tuition fee
information can be accessed here .

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/leadership-governance/vice-chancellors-office/governance-services/information-on-harassment-and-sexual-misconduct:
The University is committed to preventing and addressing incidents of bullying, harassment and sexual misconduct (including sexual harassment) wherever possible.
We deliver preventative training to both staff and students to promote understanding of unacceptable behaviours and provide timely support to those who have been affected.
We also have fair and transparent processes in place to address such incidents, remedy any harm and prevent them from recurring.
Our Student Charter and our Values and Behaviours outline the standards we all agree to follow.
Bullying, harassment and sexual misconduct of any kind are not acceptable and won’t be tolerated.
Further examples of unacceptable behaviour can be found in our Staff and Student Unacceptable Behaviours Policies .
The sections below detail definitions of unacceptable behaviours, details of the support and reporting mechanisms we offer to staff and students, and the policies and protocols in place to address any issues that are reported to us.
We understand that the terminology used around some of the issues covered in this guidance can be subject to interpretation.
We have provided definitions used in our policies and procedures below for the purpose of clarity and consistency in understanding.
Bullying occurs when someone is subject to offensive, intimidating, malicious or insulting behaviour, that is intended to undermine, humiliate, denigrate or injure them.
There is often an imbalance, abuse or misuse of power, or perceived power, and it is normally repeated behaviour rather than a one-off isolated incident.
Discrimination occurs when someone is treated unfavourably because of their actual or perceived membership of a certain group or social category including but not limited to characteristics protected under the Equality Act 2010.
Domestic and partner violence/abuse covers incidents or a pattern of incidents that happen between those who are, or have been, partners or family members.
The incidents can take a number of forms, including: physical, verbal, emotional, financial and coercive control.
It can occur online and offline.
Anyone can be a victim, while the majority of victims are women and girls.
Harassment occurs when someone is subject to unwanted or unwelcome behaviour, which has the purpose or effect of violating dignity or creating an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment for them.
Stalking is a form of harassment and occurs when a person becomes fixated with another.
Hate incidents are behaviours motivated by hate, fear, prejudice or intolerance and are often based on real or perceived characteristics of the victim(s) in relation to their age; disability; race; religion or belief; sex; sexual orientation; gender reassignment; pregnancy and maternity; marriage and civil partnership.
Racial harassment occurs when someone is subject to unwanted behaviour in relation to their real or perceived race, which has the purpose or effect of violating dignity or creating an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment for them.
Misogyny is the hatred of, contempt for, or prejudice against women or girls, and the belief that men are inherently superior.
Its meaning is similar to 'sexism', and can refer to behaviour and attitudes.
Misogyny is generally directed by men against women and occurs online and offline.
Sexual misconduct occurs when someone is subject to unwanted behaviour of a sexual nature from another person.
It includes sexualised and predatory behaviours by students, and by university staff towards students.
In the University setting, it may also involve the misuse of institutional or role power in an unequal professional relationship.
Sexual violence and abuse is any unwanted conduct of a sexual nature, which occurs in person or by letter, telephone, text, email, social media or any other means.
The violence or abuse is often characterised by the absence of consent (see below for definition of consent).
Sexual violence and abuse includes but is not limited to: Conduct of a sexual nature which creates (or could create) an intimidating, hostile, degrading of offensive environment for others Making unwanted remarks of a sexual nature Rape or sexual assault 'Revenge Porn' Inappropriately showing genitals to another person
Sexual violence and abuse includes but is not limited to:
Victimisation occurs when an individual is treated in a way that is detrimental because: They made, or intend to make, a complaint about being discriminated or harassed.
They acted or intend to act as a witness in support of another person relating to a complaint.
Victimisation occurs when an individual is treated in a way that is detrimental because:
A violent crime occurs when someone uses or threatens to use force against a person.
A violent incident occurs when a person or group of people are attacked, or threatened with attack, using physical force.
Anyone can be attacked – and anyone can be an attacker.
An attacker could be a friend, a colleague, a partner, a family member, or a complete stranger.
The use of physical violence is a crime.
Consent is agreeing by choice and having the freedom and capacity to make that choice.
The person seeking consent should always take steps to ensure that consent is freely given, that it is informed and recognises that it can be withdrawn at any time.
Consent should be freely given, reversible, informed, enthusiastic and specific.
Sexual violence or abuse is often characterised by the absence of consent which may be demonstrated by: Use of force or threats against the victim/survivor.
The victim/survivor was incapable of giving valid consent due to drink, drugs, sleep, age or mental disability.
The victim/survivor was deceived as to the identity of the person with whom they had intercourse.
Sexual violence or abuse is often characterised by the absence of consent which may be demonstrated by:
We use 'disclosure' in this guidance and related policy to be when a person chooses to tell anyone who is part of the University about their experience of unacceptable behaviour.
If you make a disclosure of this nature, you will be offered support from the University as outlined below.
Refers to the person who has submitted a report to the University, either through the Unacceptable Behaviours portal or directly.
The person who is alleged to have acted in breach of university policies and/or expectations, and is therefore required to respond to those allegations as part of our investigation.
If you have experienced or witnessed sexual misconduct, harassment or any other unacceptable behaviour, the University is here to support you.
We encourage you to report any incidents to us so that we can provide the right support.
A range of specialist, one-to-one support services are available to help you navigate your options and access the right help for your wellbeing, studies, and safety.
Alternatively, you can contact:
All reports are carefully and thoughtfully addressed by relevant staff members through a process that is transparent and clearly communicated to the individuals involved.
We will respect the right of the individual disclosing an experience to choose how to take forward a disclosure.
See the FAQs below, as well as University Policies and Protocols , for details of our investigation protocols.
As described above, when a report is made to us, a range of specialist, one-to-one support services are available to help you navigate your options and access the right help.
This support is confidential, professional and guided by your decisions at every step.
You will be offered this support if you report any serious welfare incident to us either vis our reporting tool or any of the other mechanisms described above.
We understand that you may have reservations about speaking about a distressing or traumatic experience.
We have therefore compiled some frequently asked questions to help you understand how our service works and what to expect if you access support from us.
If you are based at our Newcastle Campuses:
If you are based at our London campus or are a Distance Leaner:
A member of our team will read your report and contact you by email to offer support and advice.
We may ask you certain questions to ensure you are safe and well, but you don't need to disclose more details than you feel comfortable with.
When you are ready, you can move forward with your options independently or with our support.
Our service operates seven days per week 09:00–17:00, with the exception of some bank holidays.
Our support is confidential unless we believe that you or others are in immediate danger.
Telling us what has happened and seeking support will not automatically trigger any complaints processes with the University or the police.
However, we will discuss these options with you.
If we are seriously concerned about your welfare, we may contact your named Trusted Contact and/or Next of Kin.
Current students can read more about Trusted Contact on their Student Portal .
If we believe there is a significant risk of harm to a student or others, we may need to share information with other professionals to ensure safety.
We will always aim to discuss this with you first, and seek your agreement, unless there is an immediate or significant risk where it is necessary to act quickly for your or others' protection.
This is done in line with the law, under what is called “vital interests”.
No.
However, as above, if we believe there is a significant risk of harm to a student or others, we may need to share information with the Police or other professionals to ensure safety.
When you make an anonymous disclosure via our reporting tool , it is truly anonymous.
We cannot locate where the disclosure came from or find out your name, contact details or any identifying information.
If you share identifying information like your name or location in the free-text boxes, it may be possible to determine who you or others are.
This could lead to contact with you or others if we need to take action to protect you or anyone in the university community and keep you safe.
We're limited in the actions we can take against the person who harmed you if you make an anonymous disclosure, so we recommend you report share as much detail as you feel comfortable with us.
In either case we will not take any further action without your consent.
We use anonymous disclosures to shape and inform university and city-wide prevention and engagement activities.
We also anonymise named disclosures by removing all personal information and collating these with anonymous disclosures to shape our support activities.
Yes.
We can support you no matter where the incident or behaviour took place or who is responsible.
We will guide you through the options and help you to make informed choices.
We can signpost you to appropriate support both from our support services and any other relevant agency outside of the university.
If the incident happened within a Northumbria Students' Union (NSU) society or event, you could also talk discuss this with a member of the NSU Advice Service .
You can use any of the above reporting mechanisms to let us know your concerns or report any incidents of unacceptable behaviour you have witnessed or know of.
Your report will be treated with sensitivity and confidentiality.
We have a robust procedure for following up and investigating reports, which is outlined in University Policies and Protocols .
As a responder to a report made to us, you will be offered advice and guidance throughout this time.
A personal relationship means any association, however brief, of a sexual or other intimate nature, either in person or remotely (e.g.
via social media, email or text messaging).
As outlined in our staff Code of Conduct – Working Together at Northumbria University [link required], staff are strongly advised not to enter into a personal relationship with a student for whom they have responsibility in the areas of selection, assessment, supervision, tutoring, teaching or pastoral care, or for who they provide administrative, technical or advisory support.
If a relationship (past or present) with a student does exist that may influence, or be perceived to influence, our ability to carry out our role, staff are encouraged to disclose this to an appropriate manager, who will consider alternative arrangements to reduce or eliminate the potential for conflicts of interests arising.
Disciplinary action may be taken against the member of staff where there is a failure to declare this information.
See above for details of how to report Unacceptable Behaviour by a member of Northumbria staff and our Investigative Procedure for details of how reports and complaints are progressed.
University policies and protocols
Make a report of unacceptable behaviour
Student Portal
Mandatory training for staff and students

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/alumni-association:
ALUMNI DISCOUNTS AND BENEFITS
REGISTER OR UPDATE YOUR DETAILS
ALUMNI VOLUNTEERING
ALUMNI REUNIONS

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/alumni-association/alumni-community:
ALUMNI COMMUNITY
We want to inspire the next generation of Northumbria students to take on tomorrow by sharing memories of their time at Northumbria and explaining how this has benefited them in their career today.
ALUMNI FILMS
ALUMNI NEWS
NOTABLE ALUMNI
CONNECT WITH US ON SOCIAL MEDIA

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/alumni-association/contact-details-update:
By registering to join the Alumni Association or updating your details, you will benefit from being part of our global learning community of graduates.
Membership is free and open to all graduates of Northumbria University and associated colleges.
You will be able to take advantage of a range of benefits including discounted Postgraduate study, careers guidance, mentoring and volunteering and receive news and updates through our monthly e-bulletin and alumni events.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/alumni-association/alumni-benefits-and-services:
DISCOUNTS AND BENEFITS
Being a member of the Alumni Association means
tapping into a range of benefits which will help you progress and achieve your
goals.
These include Santander Universities UK internships, apprenticeships and
placements, discounted Postgraduate study, careers advice and mentoring.
You’ll also be invited to
networking, reunion and social events worldwide.
PG STUDY DISCOUNTS
GRADUATE ENTERPRISE
CAREERS SUPPORT
SANTANDER OPEN ACADEMY
ACCESS SPORT CENTRAL
ACCESS OUR LIBRARY
CERTIFICATES AND TRANSCRIPTS
GIFTS AND SOUVENIRS

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/alumni-association/events-and-alumni-networks:
EVENTS AND ALUMNI NETWORKS
Around the world graduate-led Alumni Networks bring members together so they can share, learn and support each other.
The Alumni Association also organises a wide range of events from small get-togethers to reunions and formal speaker events.
UPCOMING ALUMNI EVENTS
UPCOMING UNIVERSITY EVENTS
DISCOVER MORE ABOUT ALUMNI NETWORKS

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/alumni-association/volunteering:
VOLUNTEERING
We
encourage our graduates to get involved in volunteering as an ‘Alumni Ambassador’.
You
can get involved by:
Providing an Alumni Profile Help
us to inspire students by sharing your University experience and career path via
a profile film or written alumni profile.
Delivering a Lecture, Talk or
Workshop We
encourage alumni to share their experience and expertise through speaking to fellow
graduates, current students and business partners.
Leading an Alumni Network Group We
are always looking for alumni volunteers to lead Network groups worldwide;
these groups can be founded around a geographical location or shared interests.
Providing an Placement or Internship Placements
and internships are an ideal way of giving a Northumbria student or graduate a
great start to their career.
These opportunities provide valuable work
experience, enhance their CVs and add value to your business.
INTERESTED IN VOLUNTEERING?
JOIN OR CREATE AN ALUMNI CHAPTER
PROVIDE AN ALUMNI PROFILE

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/alumni-association/giving-to-northumbria:
Scholarships, outreach programmes and enterprise support
give our students the opportunity to explore their higher education ambitions
to the limit, while hardship bursaries and well-being services offer a lifeline
when challenges arise.
In January 2022, the University launched the Higher
Education Without Barriers Fund.
Through
this Fund, we are providing a range of financial initiatives, mental health and
wellbeing services and community-based outreach projects to enable students from
all backgrounds to
study and succeed at Northumbria.
Since launching, donations to the Higher Education Without
Barriers Fund have reached almost £4m , helping to support over 2,500 students
across the Northumbria University community.
With your help we can
continue to build on this success and make a difference.
IntoUniversity
Mental Health & Wellbeing
NU ASPIRE SCHOLARSHIPS
HARDSHIP
“Receiving the PhD Studentship has been a great opportunity for me.
Without it, it would have been very difficult for me financially to undertake a PhD and thanks to this support I have been able to gain new skills and experience in an area I am extremely passionate about” Student recipient of the Lady Edwina Grosvenor Scholarship
Without it, it would have been very difficult for me financially to undertake a PhD and thanks to this support I have been able to gain new skills and experience in an area I am extremely passionate about”
Student recipient of the Lady Edwina Grosvenor Scholarship
“It was exciting to come back to Northumbria after almost three decades, and to meet with so many talented and entrepreneurially-focused students.
Speaking with them about my own career and the lessons I have learnt by founding and building a business was a huge privilege” Chris K.
Jones, Entrepreneur and Northumbria University Graduate
Speaking with them about my own career and the lessons I have learnt by founding and building a business was a huge privilege”
Chris K.
"Receiving scholarship funding from Santander Universities has opened the door to so many opportunities for me.
I could not be more thankful" Debora Schiller, Santander Universities Scholarship Recipient
I could not be more thankful"
Debora Schiller, Santander Universities Scholarship Recipient
"I spent four happy years at Northumbria University.
Almost 25 years on from my graduation, it has clearly gone from strength-to-strength.
The opportunity to meet with and deliver a lecture to students was a great way to give back" Charlie Hampton, Founding Director & Chief Operating Officer, Pembroke and Rye and Northumbria Graduate
The opportunity to meet with and deliver a lecture to students was a great way to give back"
Charlie Hampton, Founding Director & Chief Operating Officer, Pembroke and Rye and Northumbria Graduate
“Funding a PhD studentship is my way of giving back and saying thank you, by helping someone who might not have had the opportunity otherwise.
I like to think that through this I am inspiring others” Lady Edwina Grosvenor, Philanthropist and Northumbria University Graduate
I like to think that through this I am inspiring others”
Lady Edwina Grosvenor, Philanthropist and Northumbria University Graduate
The impact of Giving
VIEW OUR DONOR PROMISE

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/alumni-association/giving-to-northumbria/intouniversity:
In October
2021, Northumbria and Newcastle Universities worked with IntoUniversity to open
the region's first IntoUniversity centre in the east-end of Newcastle.
IntoUniversity centres
enable disadvantaged 7- to 18-year-olds to discover their passion for learning,
develop academic capabilities and soft skills, and access  information and
advice to thrive through their educational journey and career.
The centres are
in neighbourhoods that have high poverty rates and
where young people are least likely to progress to higher education.
They are accessed by young
people who meet the referral criteria, which includes looked after children,
young people with free school meal entitlement, refugees, asylum
seekers, carers, those in social housing or low-income
households, young people who speak English as a second language,
have special educational needs or are excluded.
Since opening, the Centre has worked with over 2,000 students and the impact has been significant.
New Centre in 2025
To support the demand for IntoUniversity Centre provision in our region, we are opening a second centre in Gateshead in September.
The Centre will be based in BizSpace Design Works, between Felling and Heworth.
Newcastle United Foundation will join us as a partner at both Centres, and we are actively seeking other partners, who share our social mobility ambitions, to provide philanthropic support for the delivery of the education programme across the Centres as well as experiential learning opportunities for the young people who attend.
Young people access a progressive
programme of support, including help with homework, coursework, revision,
transitioning to secondary school, university applications, and job application
techniques.
They learn about jobs and careers, are prepared for university
life, and access enrichment activities including employer visits, mentoring by
students and local businesses, work experience, internships and university
summer schools.
IntoUniversity's unique
model focuses on providing local, multi-stranded support to young people from
disadvantaged backgrounds, helping them achieve their educational and career
aspirations.
The team at each Centre consists of a Centre Leader, Senior
Educational Workers and Educational Workers, who engage the students in a
progressive programme of activities.
There are many ways graduates and businesses
can get involved.
Northumbria University is currently seeking philanthropic partners
to support staffing, running costs and learning resources.
The current funding
shortfall across both Centres between 2025 and 2030 is £876,524.
"IntoUniversity demonstrates our commitment to enabling young people to engage with higher education.
It will open doors to underrepresented groups and help deliver life-changing outcomes.
We are excited to be part of this collaboration” Dan Monnery, Chief Strategy Officer, Northumbria University
We are excited to be part of this collaboration”
Dan Monnery, Chief Strategy Officer, Northumbria University
"We're delighted to be partnering with Newcastle University and Northumbria University.
This work is especially important to provide a boost to many young people who may have lost out on learning during lockdown and because of self-isolation” Hugh Rayment-Pickard, Co-Founder, IntoUniversity
This work is especially important to provide a boost to many young people who may have lost out on learning during lockdown and because of self-isolation”
Hugh Rayment-Pickard, Co-Founder, IntoUniversity
"The best thing about IntoUniversity is the up-to-date knowledge than staff come with and the relatability of staff to students.
I really notice and appreciate the impact of the one-to-one sessions, as they help our students to prepare for university or the world of work." Teacher, IntoUniversity Centre
I really notice and appreciate the impact of the one-to-one sessions, as they help our students to prepare for university or the world of work."
Teacher, IntoUniversity Centre
WATCH OUR FILM HERE
Impact of INTOUniversity

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/alumni-association/giving-to-northumbria/scholarships:
At Northumbria we provide scholarships to remove financial barriers to achieving a university degree.
Students use this support to help fund their tuition fees, living costs, field trips, specialist equipment, travel, and experiential learning opportunities.
Approximately 40% of our students are from under-represented
backgrounds, and 65% are from North-East England where school attainment and
routes into Higher Education are the lowest in the UK.
Fear of tuition fee debt and lessening access to wider
finance to support living costs, often means that students from
under-represented backgrounds are less likely to consider university as a
choice.
Supporting a student with a scholarship to study at foundation, undergraduate
or postgraduate level provides crucial assistance with living costs.
It can also reduce the over reliance on
part-time work, allowing students to focus on their studies, participate in
extra-curricular activities and undertake work-related learning.
Northumbria is a research-rich, business-focused,
professional university with a global reputation for academic excellence.
We
conduct ground-breaking, impactful research that is responsive to the needs of
individuals and communities within the areas of science & technology,
health & well-being, and economic, social & cultural development.
Northumbria University is in the Times Higher Education UK
top 30 for research power, based on the results of the most recent Research
Excellence Framework.
Additionally, we are ranked among world’s top 150
universities aged 50 years or under, according to the 2023 Times Higher
Education World University Rankings.
With your support, we can: Enable more staff to produce high quality research that
    addresses global challenges and contributes to regional, national, and
    international priorities.
Increase the number of funded PhD studentships that we
    offer, with the aim of attracting exceptional applicants worldwide.
Provide a broad, welcoming, and supportive research
    experience that allows staff and students to explore and achieve their full
    potential, regardless of background.
More closely integrate our education and research so we
    deliver research-enriched education that empowers our students to realise their
    ambitions and make a powerful contribution to regional, societal, and global
    challenges within their future careers.
Expand our partnerships with businesses, cultural
    organisations, government, and institutions around the world to leverage the
    impact of research to address economic and societal issues as well as the
    urgent global challenges.
With your support, we can:
To recognise your support, the University will work with you
to choose a name for your scholarship.
You can select the discipline closest to
your degree or business interest, or we can provide advice on where there is
the greatest need.
Donations can be made as a single payment or in instalments.
Through tax effective charitable giving, you can claim back
the difference between the higher rates of tax and the basic rate on the total
value of your donation.
For example, if you pay tax at the 40% rate, a donation
of £1,600 (+ Gift Aid = £2,000) allows you to recover £400, so the donation
costs you £1,200 net, and Northumbria University receives £2,000.
"I
am writing to express my genuine gratitude and sincere thanks to you for
supporting my degree.
This scholarship has eased my financial pressures,
allowing me to fully focus on my studies." Lambeeda, Student Scholarship recipient
This scholarship has eased my financial pressures,
allowing me to fully focus on my studies."
Lambeeda, Student Scholarship recipient
“Engineering
has always sparked my curiosity because it is rare in my culture and religion
for women to study this field.
I thought
it would be ideal to explore something new and make a change.
Receiving this scholarship has made this
possible and I'm very grateful and appreciative.” Ayesha, Rider Levett Bucknall
Scholarship recipient
Receiving this scholarship has made this
possible and I'm very grateful and appreciative.”
Ayesha, Rider Levett Bucknall
Scholarship recipient
“Your
financial support has significantly impacted my academic career and allowed me
to pursue my educational goals passionately.
Your faith in my abilities has
fuelled my successes, and I will always appreciate your investment in my
future.” Juan, Paul Price
Scholarship recipient
Your faith in my abilities has
fuelled my successes, and I will always appreciate your investment in my
future.”
Juan, Paul Price
Scholarship recipient
"I was ecstatic when I received the e-mail confirming my success.
The Scholarship has helped me with living costs and money management, vital in a postgraduate setting." Tom, Agile Business Consortium Scholarship Recipient
The Scholarship has helped me with living costs and money management, vital in a postgraduate setting."
Tom, Agile Business Consortium Scholarship Recipient
“Since
receiving the scholarship award back in my first year of the Design for
Industry course, I have seen my grades gradually increase.
The award has
allowed me to focus more on my workload than any financial burdens that going
to university typically has on students.” Hannah, Flowers Scholarship recipient
The award has
allowed me to focus more on my workload than any financial burdens that going
to university typically has on students.”
Hannah, Flowers Scholarship recipient
“Receiving
this scholarship is not only a financial relief but also a tremendous
motivation for me to excel academically and make the most of this opportunity.” Adeel, Cobham-Ultra Post
Graduate Research Scholarship recipient
“Receiving
this scholarship is not only a financial relief but also a tremendous
motivation for me to excel academically and make the most of this opportunity.”
Adeel, Cobham-Ultra Post
Graduate Research Scholarship recipient
“Thank
you for my scholarship award.
I had been contemplating taking on extra work
during the upcoming Christmas season to address my financial difficulties.
With
the scholarship, I can dedicate my undivided attention to my studies, and I
couldn't be happier or more thankful for this chance.” Hasnat, Student Scholarship recipient
With
the scholarship, I can dedicate my undivided attention to my studies, and I
couldn't be happier or more thankful for this chance.”
Hasnat, Student Scholarship recipient
"This
scholarship has significantly alleviated the financial pressure I was facing,
allowing me to focus on my studies and reach my full potential." Lewis, Student Scholarship recipient
"This
scholarship has significantly alleviated the financial pressure I was facing,
allowing me to focus on my studies and reach my full potential."
Lewis, Student Scholarship recipient
Vaughan Oliver Graphic Design Scholarship
Find your campaign
Mental Health and Wellbeing
Hardship

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/alumni-association/giving-to-northumbria/mental-health-and-wellbeing:
Now more than ever, we know that student success relies on
the provision of accessible mental health and wellbeing services.
Recently we have seen an unprecedented demand for mental
health and wellbeing support from our students.
We want to continue to provide
students with the services they need to make the most of their university
experience and succeed in their studies.
With your support we are:
How can you help?
A donation of:
£35 will cover
learning resource costs for one person to undertake Mental Health First Aid
training;
£50 provides professional counselling for one
student;
£120 gives access to NUTHINKING, an intensive 3-month
programme providing mental health coaching and nutritional advice for one
student; and
£500 will fund the Mental Health First Aid training
for a cohort of Northumbria students.
"We are pleased to support two university programmes for student mental health and well-being through NUTHINKING and, provide financial and mentoring support to a cohort of ten student start-ups via NU:IDEAS" Fiona Stewart, Contract Director, Universities Student Living, Sodexo
"We are pleased to support two university programmes for student mental health and well-being through NUTHINKING and, provide financial and mentoring support to a cohort of ten student start-ups via NU:IDEAS"
Fiona Stewart, Contract Director, Universities Student Living, Sodexo
“With the
pandemic, the mental health needs of our students have increased.
NUTHINKING
helps our students to understand and experience the benefits of physical
activity, complementing the support the Students’ Union and the University
already provide.
It’s been invaluable in supporting students" Nerius Shah, President, Northumbria Students’ Union
It’s been invaluable in supporting students"
Nerius Shah, President, Northumbria Students’ Union
"Northumbria was definitely very influential in terms of getting me talking about my mental health.
Visiting one of the University's counsellors at Student Central was one of the first people I opened up to and certainly got the ball rolling in terms of seeing the benefits of talking” Tom Home, Northumbria Graduate and Founder, blOKes Charity
Visiting one of the University's counsellors at Student Central was one of the first people I opened up to and certainly got the ball rolling in terms of seeing the benefits of talking”
Tom Home, Northumbria Graduate and Founder, blOKes Charity
"The scheme has given me more insight into different areas of Law, such as finance, which has helped me to choose which type of Law I'd like to specialise in for the future." Law Student Hardship Bursary Recipient
"The scheme has given me more insight into different areas of Law, such as finance, which has helped me to choose which type of Law I'd like to specialise in for the future."
Law Student Hardship Bursary Recipient
"We are very pleased to be supporting the University and our bursary will go on to help the students follow their dreams" Lisa Rutherford, Chloe’s Mum, Chloe and Liam Together Forever Trust
"We are very pleased to be supporting the University and our bursary will go on to help the students follow their dreams"
Lisa Rutherford, Chloe’s Mum, Chloe and Liam Together Forever Trust
“I had a session with one of my students who is engaging in NUTHINKING and is finding it very positive.
They told me they did not realise how much it can benefit their mental health.
So, it is really complimenting the work we are doing together which is great” NU Student Life & Wellbeing Counsellor
So, it is really complimenting the work we are doing together which is great”
NU Student Life & Wellbeing Counsellor
Impact of Mental Health & Wellbeing Support

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/alumni-association/giving-to-northumbria/hardship:
The Hardship Fund supports students who are experiencing
unexpected or unforeseen financial difficulties, providing funding towards the
cost of accommodation, food, learning resources, digital equipment and
childcare.
The funding enables students to concentrate upon their
studies, without the worry of being unable to afford their basic living costs.
£20 will pay for basic provisions for a few days;
£75 will help towards rent and utility bills for a
week;
£150 will buy food supplies for a month; and
£500 will purchase a laptop and WiFi subscription for
a student.
"I was
an international student at one time, and I can only imagine hardships that
some people face to get an education.
I owe a lot to this University, and I am
grateful to be able to help in some way.
It is a real privilege to be able to
help in my small way" Dr Arnab Basu, Chief Executive Officer of Kromek, Northumbria Graduate and Honorary
Graduate
It is a real privilege to be able to
help in my small way"
Dr Arnab Basu, Chief Executive Officer of Kromek, Northumbria Graduate and Honorary
Graduate
"The scheme has helped me make new connections and gain confidence in professional networking." Law Student Hardship Bursary Recipient
"The scheme has helped me make new connections and gain confidence in professional networking."
"I can't thank enough the Northumbria Team who helped me.
I want everyone
involved to know how grateful I am.
This support will put my mind at ease with everything
that has gone on.
Thank you, you have helped me in my time of difficulty” Chloe, Student Recipient from Tough Times Campaign
Thank you, you have helped me in my time of difficulty”
Chloe, Student Recipient from Tough Times Campaign
“Many thanks for
your quick decision on my hardship request.
This support will help lessen my
financial burden and help me in many other ways” Stuart, Student Recipient from Tough Times Campaign
This support will help lessen my
financial burden and help me in many other ways”
Stuart, Student Recipient from Tough Times Campaign
Hardship Support

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/alumni-association/giving-to-northumbria/impact-of-giving1:
Donations from our graduates
and other supporters are making a significant impact; they have enabled us to
further our world-leading research and open the door of opportunity for Northumbria
University students, providing enriching experiences.
Our donor community
unites people from different generations and countries; people who are
connected by their passions as well as their commitment to the University.
In
an ever-changing world, Northumbria is continuously evolving, pursuing new
thinking, forging new partnerships, creating and exchanging new knowledge, and
empowering students and graduates.
Donations help us to inspire and support the
next generation of thinkers, leaders and problem-solvers.
Your donation offers
more than opportunity; it is a vote of confidence, a statement that it is
possible for students to succeed, regardless of their background and
circumstances.
Mental Health & Wellbeing Support
IntoUniversity Centre Programme
Impact Reports

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/alumni-association/giving-to-northumbria/how-you-can-help:
Make a Regular Donation
Make a Single donation
Make a Gift in Your Will
Sponsor a Student Prize
Tax-Effective Giving for USA Donors
Contact us

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/international/register-interest:
Complete the form below and be sure to opt-in to at least one form of communication or else you won't be able to hear more from us.
Form not displaying?
Please click here .

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/ucas-clearing-confirmation-adjustment-and-extra/ucas-tariff-points-additional-qualifications:
Please note: Details around Clearing for 2025 applicants are subject to change.
Please keep checking our site for up-to-date info.
Please note any information on this page is just for guidance and Clearing entry points and criteria are subject to change throughout the clearing period and exceptions may apply.
Northumbria University accepts a number of additional qualifications which can count towards your UCAS tariff points.*
We recognise the value of a number of different qualifications that our students study, some of which could count towards your UCAS tariff points and ultimately lead to you securing a place with us.
Please check your qualifications on the UCAS Tariff Calculator or for a full list, please check the UCAS tariff table.
If you call us to ask about Clearing vacancies, make sure you mention any additional qualifications to our hotline staff.
This will help us make a full assessment of your application and might improve your chances of entry.
The table below provides you with some of the more popular additional qualifications, but don't be alarmed if yours isn’t there.
There are a range of other qualifications we accept which our call handlers can confirm.
*Sorry, this doesn’t apply to all courses and some qualifications will not be counted.
If none of the Level 3 qualifications you are studying carry tariff points, we may still consider an application from you.
Certificate in Graded Examination in Music Performance
16
Official title: Certificate in Graded Examination in (Theatre) Dance
Size band: 2
Grade bands: 8-10 (Grade 8), 6-8 (Grade 7), 4-6 (Grade 6)
Offered by BBO, GQAL, IDTA, ISTA, NATD, RAD and RSL
Vocational Graded Dance qualifications
Official title: Certificate in Vocational Graded Examination in Dance
Grade bands: 4-12 (Advanced Foundation), 3-11 (Intermediate)
Offered by BBO, GQAL, IDTA, ISTD, NATD, RAD, and RSL
Official title: Advanced Free-Standing Mathematics Qualifications
Active IQ Level 3 Diploma in Physical Activity, Fitness and Exercise Science (GLH 520 size band 4+2)
Active IQ Level 3 Diploma in Physical Activity, Fitness and Exercise Science (GLH 1102 size band 12)
AAT Advanced Diploma in Accounting- Level 3
Arts Award (Gold)
Official title: TCL Certificate in the Arts
ASDAN Award of Personal Effectiveness
ASDAN Community Volunteering qualifications
ASDAN Certificate in Community Volunteering
Grade band: 8
ASDAN Award in Community Volunteering
Size band: 1
IFS Certificate in Financial Studies
Certificate in Personal Effectiveness
CISI Level 3 Certificate for Introduction to Securities & Investment (from September 2014)
IFS Diploma in Financial Studies
Official title: Essential Skills Wales
Extended Project

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/ucas-clearing-confirmation-adjustment-and-extra/next-steps:
So, you’ve
applied to Northumbria and you’ve been made an offer – congratulations!
It’s time to
consider your next steps; use the checklist below to guide you.
Return to our Clearing Hub .

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/fees-funding/ug-fees-funding/nu-support-scholarship:
Are you a new UK/Home undergraduate student applying to Northumbria University for the 2025/26 academic year?
If so and you're applying after 05 July 2025, you could be eligible for £4,000 , paid in instalments* throughout years one, two and three.
This extra support will help with living costs, study materials and budgeting.
Who can apply?
You must...
Applications close at 16:00 on Sunday 31 August 2025.
It is important to remember that you are responsible for the content of any work you submit.
AI can help with things like improving grammar, helping with structure format, organising ideas, and generating suggestions.
However, the main content, analysis and conclusions in your work must always be your own.
To be considered for the NU Support Scholarship you must also;
Last updated: 07/07/2025

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/i-am-nu:
Our I Am Northumbria Hub has been designed with you in mind
and is the gateway to your Northumbria experience.
It includes lots of useful
content and information for you to explore, all in one place.
Make sure you
check back regularly for updates on everything you need to know before you
arrive, including life on campus, preparing for university and getting to know
your subject, how to access support and much more.
Remember to check your inbox
too for the most up to date information from us.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/ucas-clearing-confirmation-adjustment-and-extra/ucas-essentials/ucas-clearing-advice-for-parents-and-guardians:
If students change their mind about where or what they want to study or they don’t get the
grades expected, they can still find a place through UCAS Clearing.
Many
students join Northumbria University this way.
So what happens on results day?
If your child meets the grades for their firm choice, congratulations!
Their place will be automatically confirmed.
If they miss the grades, they might still be accepted by their insurance choice.
Check UCAS Hub for their application status and key deadlines.
Our experienced staff can
support students through Clearing via our hotline at 0800 085 1085.
For more
tips and support, visit our ‘What is Clearing’ page, you can browse our parent based Frequently Asked questions below or view our student focused Frequently Asked Questions.
*Please note: we use the terms ‘parent’ and ‘child' throughout the website for simplicity, but we appreciate that many of you may be carers, legal guardians or step-parents.
This information is aimed at anyone who fulfils a parenting role for a young person in the UK who is considering a university education.
" We encourage other parents and applicants to remember they are not alone in this journey - Northumbria is committed to making the Clearing experience as smooth and positive as possible.
"
- Tianna's Parents
Tianna’s parents share how Clearing opened up exciting new opportunities and gave their daughter the confidence to thrive at Northumbria.
READ MORE
UCAS Clearing is an opportunity to find a university spot if a student's initial plans didn't work out - perhaps they didn't meet offer conditions, haven't yet applied, didn't receive offers, or simply changed their mind.
Clearing is just one of the many ways to start the university journey.
Hear from some of our students who accessed Northumbria through Clearing.
For 2025 entry, UCAS Clearing officially opened on the 5th of July 2025.
For more important dates to consider, view our simple Clearing Process Guide .
You can explore our available courses on our Clearing Hub then, if they have their results, they can continue to our NU Clearing Form to find out if they are eligible for an offer.
If someone is waiting on their results, they may want to get a feel for Northumbria, to decide if it feels right for them.
They can do this by taking virtual tours , finding us on social media , and hearing from our students .
They can also become a Northumbria Clearing VIP , to unlock exclusive content and early access to key opportunities.
On Results Day, if someone does want to apply through Clearing, they can call our Hotline on 0800 085 1085.
When calling Northumbria, they will need their UCAS number, Clearing number, and details about their qualifications.
You may wish to encourage them to prepare what they want to say, writing down any questions they may have, and have a pen and paper ready for taking notes.
We are happy to speak to parents/carers on the Clearing hotline to offer advice and guidance, though we can't discuss personal details or provide an offer without consent of the individual.
If the individual provides consent beforehand (or have a nominated contact listed on their UCAS form), we can speak to others on their behalf, however, they may be required to confirm any personal details throughout the call.
Alternatively, they can provide consent in advance, via email, to allow us to discuss their clearing application with a nominated contact.
The individual can do this at bc.ad.clearing@northumbria.ac.uk .
If someone is unable to call, they can use our Northumbria Clearing Form to apply for a place.
We have a useful guide on making changes to your Student Finance after Confirmation and Clearing.
Students who have secured a place at university through Clearing will be eligible for the same student loans (tuition fee and student maintenance loan) as other students, and the interest rates are the same.
We have lots of useful information available on the accommodation website and clearing-specific accommodation FAQs can be found on the Clearing FAQs webpage .
We understand that there may be factors that make your child or someone you care for reconsider their options.
It is possible for them to change their mind after accepting a Clearing offer - advice can be found on the Offer Holder Information webpage .
We offer the same range of support services to all students, regardless of how they joined.
This includes academic advice, wellbeing and mental health support , careers services , disability support , and financial guidance .
Your child or someone you care for will have full access to all resources available to help them thrive.
After accepting, your child they can visit our Next Steps Checklist , equipped with all things to consider before enrolling at Northumbria.
For many, it's a transformative experience offering personal growth, career opportunities, and valuable education, providing to be a worthwhile investment in their future.
Find out more about where a degree can take your child from our Alumni Community .
Named Modern University of the Year 2025, now has never been a better time to study with us.
You can find out more about Northumbria University's bold 2030 strategic ambitions , which aims to enable people from all background to succeed.
Should you require further information about Clearing and Confirmation, please visit Northumbria's guide to UCAS Clearing and Confirmation 2025 .
PREPARING FOR THEIR NEXT STEP
Sign up to view our parents' guide
Northumbria offers a wide range of assistance and advice
SAFETY ON CAMPUS
Find out more about what we do to help your child stay safe on and off campus.
THEIR HOME IN NEWCASTLE
Take a closer look at our residences
CLEARING HUB
EXPLORE →

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/governance/terms-and-conditions:
Student Terms and Conditions
All students enrolling at
Northumbria University agree to terms and conditions as detailed in the
documents below.
These terms and conditions are not exhaustive and it is
important that you also familiarise yourself with all documentation and
procedures relating to your programme of study, particularly those listed in
your Programme Handbook.
These terms and
conditions are subject to periodic review.
The review is normally undertaken on an annual basis, in preparation for
the main September enrolment (and re-enrolment) event.
If you are an
enrolled student and have a query relating to these terms and conditions, contact us by-the Student Portal .
Otherwise, please contact Ask4Help .
Student Charter Handbook of Student Regulations Assessment Regulations IT Acceptable Use Policy Privacy Notice Student Complaints Procedure (Student Handbook - Section 10 for Taught Programmes & Annexe 4 for Research Programmes) Student Enrolment Conditions (Student Handbook Section 2 Taught & Research Programmes) Student Protection Plan Student Transfer Arrangements
Handbook of Student Regulations
Assessment Regulations
IT Acceptable Use Policy
Privacy Notice
Student Complaints Procedure (Student Handbook - Section 10 for Taught Programmes & Annexe 4 for Research Programmes)
Student Enrolment Conditions (Student Handbook Section 2 Taught & Research Programmes)
Student Protection Plan
Student Transfer Arrangements
Student Conduct Expectations
We want you to enjoy your time at Northumbria University and
to successfully graduate.
During your
time here, you will have the opportunity to meet different people, have new
experiences, and to challenge yourself to reach your potential.
As a student of Northumbria University, you also have
obligations to behave reasonably, ensuring that the University is a safe and
supportive place to live, study and work for all.
Everyone, fellow students,
staff, visitors to the University, and neighbours in the community, have a
right to be treated with dignity and respect.
All members of the University
community have a duty to support this principle in accordance with the Student Charter .
The University provides advice, guidance, policies and
procedures to make you aware of available support and to assist your
understanding of the standards of behaviour expected by the University.
These
are listed below, and you should familiarise yourself with these.
Alcohol and Legal Highs - Guidance for Students Drugs - Guidance for Students Using Social Media - Guidance for Students Living in the Community - Guidance for Students
Alcohol and Legal Highs - Guidance for Students
Drugs - Guidance for Students
Using Social Media - Guidance for Students
Living in the Community - Guidance for Students
Reporting and Addressing Unacceptable Behaviour Equality and Diversity Policy Student Disciplinary Procedure (Section 3 of the Handbook of Student Regulations) Accommodation Rules (Section 3, Appendix 4 of the Handbook of Student Regulations) S tudent Fitness to Practise Procedure (Section 9 of the Handbook of Student Regulations) Library Code of Conduct
Equality and Diversity Policy
Student Disciplinary Procedure (Section 3 of the Handbook of Student Regulations)
Accommodation Rules (Section 3, Appendix 4 of the Handbook of Student Regulations)
S tudent Fitness to Practise Procedure (Section 9 of the Handbook of Student Regulations)
Library Code of Conduct
Other Useful Information
This page has provided you with a range of policies and procedures to help you throughout your time as a student at Northumbria University.
There is also additional information that you will find useful during your course.
These are listed below and you should familiarise yourself with these.
Academic Calendars About your Teaching Timetable Examinations Health and Safety Information Prevent Duty Students' Union Admissions Policies and Procedures
Academic Calendars
About your Teaching Timetable
Examinations
Health and Safety Information
Prevent Duty
Students' Union
Admissions Policies and Procedures
If you have any comments or queries in relation to this webpage, please contact the Student Appeals and Complaints Officer at studentappealsandcomplaints@northumbria.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/leadership-governance/vice-chancellors-office/governance-services/charitable-status:
Northumbria University is an 'exempt charity' as defined in the Charities Act 1993 (as amended by the Charities Act 1996 ).
Prior to 2006 most higher education institutions were, as exempt charities considered to be adequately supervised or accountable to another authority, and as a consequence not subject to direct Charity Commission supervision.
The Charities Act 2006 changed the law in this area, requiring exempt charities to be subject to a principal regulator .
On 1 January 2018 the Office for Students (OfS) became the principal regulator for those higher education institutions that are exempt charities.
As an exempt charity that has OfS as its principal regulator, Northumbria is required to publish on its main website a page that constitutes a gateway to specific relevant information:
Legal name and correspondence address
The University's legal name is ' University of Northumbria at Newcastle '.
' Northumbria University ' is the trading name of the University.
The main correspondence address is:
Sutherland Building Northumbria University Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 8ST
Constitution
Instrument and Articles of Government
Trustees (Governors)
Trustees of Charitable Organisations
Board of Governors
Please click here for more information on the Board of Governors
Annual Accounts
Financial Statements

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/leadership-governance/vice-chancellors-office/legal-services-team/freedom-of-information:
The Freedom of Information Act 2000
The Freedom of Information Act 2000 (FOI) came into force in January 2005 to improve the public understanding of the operation, decision-making and expenditure of public authorities such as the University.
The intended aim is to promote a culture of understanding and accountability.
FOI provides members of the public with the right to be informed whether a public authority hold particular information, as well as providing the right to have access to the information, subject to any exemptions.
The University is obliged to publish some information via a publication scheme which has been approved by the Information Commissioners office and which followed the model publication scheme designed for the Higher Education Sector.
Where information is required, but it is not already on the publication scheme, members of the public have the right to write to us requesting the information.
Please use these pages to learn more about the Freedom of Information Act 2000 and accessing information from Northumbria University
Freedom of Information Policy
Freedom of Information Act – The Basics
Request for information that involve "personal data" relating to you or another identifiable living individual may be exempt from disclosure under Section 40 of the Freedom of Information Act.
If you would like to request a copy of any data held by the University about you, or about someone who you are acting on behalf of, you may submit a Data Subject Access Request .

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/accessibility-statement:
Northumbria University is committed to providing a website that is accessible to all users.
Content the website is designed so that it is easy to find, read, understand, and interact with.
This Accessibility Statement provides an overview of the accessibility features we have implemented on the websites northumbria.ac.uk and work4.northumbria.ac.uk.
The Northumbria University website also contains links to third-party content.
The University is not responsible for the accessibility of this content and has no control over it.
However, Northumbria University is committed to working with partners to ensure material they are responsible for meets accessibility standards where possible and that they have their own accessibility statements.
Northumbria University also has responsibility for several other websites and platforms and each has their own Accessibility Statement.
Northumbria University aim to make the web pages meet the required WCAG AA standard and adhere to level 1 and 2 guidelines set out in the International WCAG 2.1 AA accessibility standard.
We endeavour to ensure that the website is responsive to different devices and enable browsers to accessibly change text sizes through the way the website has been designed and developed.
In addition, you could visit AbilityNet – an organisation supporting people with disability or impairment to use technology – who provide practical advice on making your device easier to use.
Northumbria University will continue to review the accessibility of content across university websites and applications.
The review process will:
If you would like us to provide any of this content in a different format, please Email Us for Accessibility Support or Complete the Accessibility Form Below.
We will consider your request and aim to get back to you in 2 days.
Northumbria University is committed to reviewing and improving accessibility of our websites and welcome comment and feedback to support us to do this.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, please Email Us for Accessibility Support or Complete the Accessibility Form above.
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
Northumbria University is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
These websites are partially compliant with
the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.2 AA standard, due to the non-compliances listed below:
Non-compliance with the accessibility regulations
The Northumbria University website is currently WCAG 2.1 AA non-compliant.
Issues include:
Links do not explain their purpose - These will be audited and links updated by content owners.
We aim to be compliant by January 2025.
Pages are scrolling in two dimensions on small screens.
Focus is not fully obscured - When selecting a user interface component with the keyboard, the focus indicator must
    not be completely obscured by anything in front of it.
Controls are not clearly indicate when they are selected - All controls on the page - including links, buttons, and fields - should clearly indicate when they have been selected by the keyboard.
Disproportionate burden
Should any issue be identified, that cannot be fixed, as the cost of doing so would place a disproportionate burden on the University, we will identify what those issues are, list them and explain why they cannot be fixed at that time.
Any issues falling into this category will be reviewed.
Northumbria University has acquired 3rd Party testing software, which scans our websites weekly and returns any accessibility issues, which the Digital Team (website owners) will endeavour to fix, through website developments or communicating best practice to content authors and owners.
We produce accessibility report dashboards every two months for all our website section owners, so they can review any issues on their pages and make the relevant changes to fix the issue
This statement was prepared in June 2017.
It was last reviewed on 16/08/2024.
This website was last tested on 16/08/2024.
The test was carried out by Northumbria University.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/privacy/cookies:
Registration Number: Z7674926
University of
Northumbria at Newcastle (“we”, “our”, “us”) processes
personal data in accordance with our obligations under the General Data
Protection Regulations (‘GDPR’) and is a registered Data
Controller with the Information Commissioner’s Office (‘ICO’), which is the
supervisory authority responsible for the oversight and enforcement of Data
Protection Legislation within the United Kingdom.
We are committed to protecting the privacy of
all individuals.
For purposes of this Privacy Notice, personal data means any
information about an identifiable individual.
Personal data excludes anonymous
or de-identified data that is not associated with a particular individual.
This privacy notice is a statement that
describes how and why we processes personal data in relation to any individual
(“you”, “your”) visiting any of Websites owned or operated by us that link to
this page.
It does not cover third party websites that you may access from
links on our website(s), so when opening pages that take you away from our
sites, you should exercise caution.
This notice also
explains how you might control the use of your personal data in accordance with
your rights under the GDPR.
You may be given further information about the uses
of personal data when accessing specific services and facilities.
You may provide us with
some of your information directly when you use any of our online forms, for
example to make an enquiry, submit request to register of an open day, or to
subscribe to receive email marketing communications such as online newsletters.
Examples of personal data we may process include:
Some form you may use could ask you to submit credit/debit card details.
In this case you be aware that the University is fully PCI-DSS compliant.
Where you submit this information, a relevant Privacy Notice associated with the processing will be made available to you.
We will only collect personal information, e.g.
name and address where you knowingly supply the information through using on line forms or by sending us an e-mail.
If you visit protected pages, where to gain access a user ID and password is required, then we also automatically collect the user ID used to access each page.
You may also provide data to us through your use of our website.
As with most web servers, our web servers automatically collect the following information:
Data is required for the following activities, which have been identified as necessary “necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the controller or by a third party” as the information you provide is used by us as follows:
will also be used for re-marketing or creating similar audiences to advertise online This data is processed anonymously.
Our websites use ’cookies’, which are text files placed on your computer when you visit a site which help us understand how you use our websites.
Some of our cookies remain on your computer after you leave the website, others are deleted automatically when you close your browser and others expire after a given period.
The following table provides a list of the cookies used on our website along with information about how long they will remain active for, and or how you can disable them manually.
Please note Northumbria University does not control dissemination of 3rd party cookies you should check the relevant third party website for more information about these.
We will contact you in relation to events and products that we believe are relevant to you based upon their similar nature to your engagement with us including: events, benefits and opportunities offered by us, or in relation to operational information (e.g.
building closures etc).
If, at any stage, you are concerned about the content (e.g.
unwanted marketing), frequency (too many) or method (change preference) of these communications, you can unsubscribe or update your preferences using the link which will be provided at the bottom of the relevant correspondence.
Should you unsubscribe from our marketing messages you will miss regular communications about our services and updates.
We have implemented appropriate physical, technical, and organisational security measures designed to secure your personal data against accidental loss and unauthorised access, use, alteration, or disclosure.
In addition, we limit access to personal data to those employees, agents, contractors, and other third parties that have a legitimate business need for such access.
All of our employees, contractors and volunteers with access to personal data receive mandatory data protection training and have a contractual responsibility to maintain confidentiality and access to your data is restricted to those members of staff who have a requirement to access it.
Your data may be transferred and processed between relevant departments in order to provide you with access to services, to provide you with support or to fulfil the processing activities listed above.
We utilises many different storage solutions and IT systems, some of which are outsourced to third party providers.
For example, email accounts are provided by the Microsoft Live@Edu service.
Where processing takes place with an external third party, processing takes place under an appropriate agreement outlining their responsibilities to ensure that processing is compliant with the Data Protection legislation and verified to be secure.
Under the GDPR, you have a number of rights in relation to the processing of your personal information, each of which may apply to differing degrees’ dependent upon the nature of the processing and the legal basis for it.
You have the right to:
In certain circumstances, you may have the right to:
In some cases, there may be specific exemptions as to why we aren’t able to comply with some of the above.
Where this is the case, we will explain the reasons why.
For more information about any of the above please see the GDPR pages of our website.
In order to exercise any of the above rights, please contact the Data Protection Officer (details below).
The Data Protection Officer for Northumbria University is Duncan James.
Please do not hesitate to email us at dp.officer@northumbria.ac.uk .
If your request is urgent, please call +44 (0)191 243 7357
If you are dissatisfied with our processing of your data, or a response to a complaint you have made to us about it, you have the right to complain to the ICO.
Information Commissioner's Office Wycliffe House Water Lane Wilmslow Cheshire SK9 5AF
Telephone: 0303 123 1113 (local rate) or 01625 545 745
Fax: 01625 524 510
For more information see Information Commissioner’s web site .
We keep this privacy notice under regular review and will communicate any significant updates to you.
This privacy notice was last updated in November 2024 and will be reviewed annually.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/disclaimer:
Northumbria University has taken reasonable care to ensure that the information published on this website is accurate at the time of publication or last modification.
However, the University gives no warranty or representation as to the quality, accuracy or completeness of the information.
The website is made available for public viewing on the basis that Northumbria University excludes to the fullest extent lawfully permitted all liability whatsoever for any loss or damage howsoever arising out of the use of this website or reliance upon the content of this website.
(No liability is excluded for personal injury or death resulting from the University's negligence or fraud or for any matter, which would be illegal to exclude liability or attempt to so exclude).
The University's website is intended as a general guide to the University's courses and facilities and forms no part of any contract between you and the University.
Enrolment at the University is subject to acceptance of the Student Enrolment Conditions contained in the University's Handbook of Student Regulations.
Northumbria University is not responsible for the content or availability of any external websites which may be linked to from this site.
Such links are provided only for the convenience of the user, and do not imply endorsement of any products or services.
Why do we have Google Translate on our website?

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/governance/modern-slavery-statement:
This policy and associated procedure outlines the University’s position on modern slavery and summarises its provisions for mitigating the risk of modern slavery and human trafficking in its activities and supply chains
The Modern Slavery Act 2015 aims to tackle such
exploitation.
It requires organisations with a minimum annual turnover of £36m
to report on what they are doing to address modern slavery within its business
and produce a “ slavery and human
trafficking statement ” for each financial year.
Organisations that pursue
primarily charitable or educational aims (such as the University) are also
required to comply

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/governance/trade-union-facility-time:
What is Facility Time Publication?
The Trade Union (Facility Time Publication Requirements) Regulations 2017 came into force on 1 April 2017 and places a legislative requirement on relevant public sector employers, including HEIs in England and Scotland, to ‘collate and publish, on an annual basis, a range of data on the amount and cost of facility time within their organisation’.
What is Facility Time?
Facility time is defined in the Regulations as ‘the provision of paid or unpaid time from an employee’s normal role to undertake Trade Union duties and activities as a Trade Union representative’.
What data are we required to publish?
We are required to publish a range of data on the amount and cost of facility time within our organisation, which is shown in Tables 1 to 4 below.
Table 1: Relevant union officials
What was the total number of your employees who were relevant union officials during the relevant period?
Number of employees who were relevant union officials during the relevant period
Full-time equivalent employee number
43
41.43 FTE
Table 2: Percentage of time spent on facility time
How many of your employees who were relevant union officials employed during the relevant period spent a) 0%, b) 1%-50%, c) 51%-99% or d) 100% of their working hours on facility time?
Percentage of time
Number of Employees
0%
0
1-50%
41
51-99%
2
100%
Table 3: Percentage of pay bill spent on facility time
Provide the percentage of the total pay bill spent on facility time, calculated as the (total cost of facility time ÷ total pay bill) x 100
Total cost of facility time
£ 277.513.54
Total pay bill
£ 213,454,000
Percentage of the total pay bill spent on facility time
0.13%
Table 4: Paid trade union activities
As a percentage of total paid facility time hours, how many hours were spent by employees who were relevant union officials during the relevant period on paid trade union activities?
(Total hours spent on paid trade union activities by relevant union officials during the relevant period ÷ total paid facility time hours) x 100
14.02%
At Table 4 we are required to publish how many hours were spent by our trade union officials on paid trade union activities as a percentage of total paid facility time hours.
Facility time is paid or unpaid time that our trade union officials receive from their normal role to undertake trade union duties and activities.
Paid trade union duties include, for example, preparing for negotiation or consultation and attending meetings with university managers; accompanying their trade union members to meetings; completing training relevant to their trade union role.
Paid trade union activities means the time taken off with pay by trade union officials to carry out matters beyond the immediate interest or concern of the university.
These activities include, for example, attendance at national executive committee meetings and attendance at trade union conferences.
During the period 1 April 2024 to 31 March 2025, the university provided 4260.8 hours of facility time to UCU and 2074.2 hours to Unison, so a total of 6335 hours overall.
From the facility time provided to each trade union:
The figure of 14.02% shown in Table 4 is the total paid time spent on trade union activities which is calculated as follows:
456.8 hours (UCU) + 431.2 hours (Unison) = 888 hours divided by 6335 hours (total paid facility time) x 100 = 14.02%

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/fees-funding/money-matters/online-payments:
Student Card and Direct Debit Payments
Make a one off payment or recurring payment for tuition fees or accommodation
UK Payments
Information for UK Students to make a payment
International Payments
Pay in your own currency online by card or bank transfer and
track your payment every step of the way
Update Your Card Details
You will need your email address and plan reference
Online Store
Make
payment for products, conferences and events and short courses
Commercial Card Payments
Make a one off payment by credit or debit card
against an invoice
Library Payments
Pay library charges and print credits
Sport Connect Payments
Class/Facility Bookings System
Join@Home
Membership/Subscription System

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/leadership-governance/vice-chancellors-office/legal-services-team/gdpr:
The General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) and the Data Protection Act 2018 set out  the  rules which Northumbria University must follow when processing  personal data.
As a Data Controller, the University must provide notification to the Information Commissioner’s Office on an annual basis.
The notification is Institution wide and includes a list of the purposes for which all personal data is processed, the types of data being processed (data classes) and who the data relates to (data subjects).
Northumbria University's Registration number is Z7674926
The University holds personal data for a wide range or people, including current and former staff and students, whose data we are committed to protecting, through clearly understanding what data we hold about them, how and why we processes it, and what we need to do to deliver the more compliance-based approach to data protection required under GDPR, with an emphasis on transparency, accountability and awareness, and giving more control of personal data back to the person it relates to.
The University processes Personal Data in Line with our Data Protection Policy.
For information on what Personal Data we process in relation to different categories of Data Subjects, and the Legal basis for the processing, we have provided all of our Privacy Notices in one place.
If you would like to request a copy of any data held by the University about you, you may submit a Data Subject Access Request .
These pages provide information on GDPR at Northumbria University, but if you require further information, please contact the Data Protection Officer dp.officer@northumbria.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/subject-and-study-guides/guides-articles/undergraduate-jargon-buster:
There will be lots of unfamiliar words
and terminology to get your head around when you or someone you’re responsible
for is considering attending university as an undergraduate student.
To keep things simple, Northumbria
University has put together a list based on the most frequently
asked questions from prospective students, parents and guardians.
Get a head start on everything from
academic acronyms to course types when researching higher education options.
So, in alphabetical order, let’s start
with...
Applicant Portal - The Applicant Portal helps you keep track of your application, as it moves through all the stages of the applicant journey.
On the portal you can undertake actions such as viewing the decision on your application, accepting your offer (not for UCAS applicants), updating your personal details if they change, selecting an Interview Date (if applicable), uploading documents, and requesting and receiving for your CAS (if applicable).
ATAS Clearance - The Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) applies to all international students (apart from exempt nationalities) who are subject to UK immigration control and are intending to study at postgraduate level in certain sensitive subjects.
If you need this requirement this will be indicated in your offer letter, along with further information on how to apply for clearance.
Buzzword – A UCAS buzzword is like a special password for your school or college.
Teachers will give out the buzzword and it is required for an application, if applying with the help of a school or college.
Bachelor's Degree – An undergraduate degree usually with 3 – 4 years of full-time study to complete.
BA – Bachelor of Arts.
An
undergraduate degree which covers the Liberal Arts.
This includes subject areas
like Fine Art and Performing Arts as well as the Humanities, like English,
Music, or History, and Social Science courses like Politics and Sociology.
BSc ( Bee-Ess-See ) – Bachelor of Science.
Undergraduate degrees which have a science
focus including Applied Sciences like Chemistry, Biology and Physics as well as
areas of study like Mathematics and Computing.
BEng ( Bee-Enj ) – Bachelor of Engineering.
An
undergraduate degree which has an engineering-based focus, for example,
construction and civil engineering or electrical and mechanical engineering.
BRP - A Biometric Residence Permit (BRP) is a card the size of a credit card issued by the Home Office as evidence of your immigration permission.
You will receive a BRP if you apply for your Student Route visa in the UK, or if you apply from outside of the UK for a programme longer than 6 months.
Your BRP card is your visa and will contain personal and biometric information of your permission to be in the UK.
BUCS – This stands for British Universities and Colleges Sport (BUCS) , and they are the national governing body for higher education sport in the UK.
CAS – This is a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) .
For international students to apply for a Student Visa they must have a CAS from Northumbria University.
A CAS is a unique reference number that you will need to put on your visa application.
Once you have satisfied the conditions for a CAS, Northumbria University will issue you a CAS Statement which details your CAS number.
It also includes all the information that we have based the decision on, which may help you in your visa application.
Clearing – If you do not receive the grades you expected, have changed your mind
about what course you want to study, or have received better results than you
expected; you can use Clearing to find a place at a different university or on
a different, more suitable, course.
Conditional offer – A University offer with conditions attached.
For instance, you may
need certain grades to be accepted onto the course.
This is an offer of a place
on a course subject to conditions.
To be accepted on the course, you’ll need to
meet the conditions – usually related to your exam results.
This is a common
type of offer for students applying directly from further education.
Credits – At University, each module of study will equate to a number of credits; you must be given a certain
number of credits from your courses through grading on exams and coursework to
progress to the next year.
Diploma – A certificate to show that someone has completed a course of study successfully, awarded by an educational establishment.
Enquirers – These are students who have registered their interest in studying with Northumbria University but have not yet made an application.
We also sometimes refer to enquirers as prospective students.
Enrolment – Registering at a university to officially become a student.
Firm Choice – Applicants can select one university course based on a conditional
offer as their firm choice.
When accepting a firm choice, you have formed a
contract with that university the terms of which are set out in the conditions
of your offer.
If the conditions are met, everything will be confirmed, and
your place will be secured.
Foundation Degree – A four-year degree with a foundation year
incorporated into the course to gain more knowledge of the subject before
beginning your official first year at university.
Honours (Hons) – "(Hons)" following a degree such as BA or BSc indicates an Honours degree which depends on the grade you achieve upon completing your studies.
If your overall mark surpasses 40%, you may be granted an Honours degree, such as BA (Hons) or BSc (Hons).
If you final mark is below 40%, you may attain an ordinary degree, indicated simply as BA or BSc (this may differ across university institutions).
Insurance Choice – This is an offer you accept as your second choice – just in case you
don’t meet the conditions of your firm offer.
LLB ( Ell-Ell-Bee ) – A Law degree programme equivalent to a BA or BSc offered by UK universities offering a stepping-stone to becoming
a solicitor or barrister.
MMath ( Em-Math ) – Master of Mathematics.
Students who study an MMath course start as an
undergraduate.
They study for 4 or 5 years and are awarded a complete Masters
degree when they graduate.
MChem ( Em-kem ) – Master of Chemistry.
Students who study an MChem course start as an
undergraduate.
MEng ( Em-Enj ) – Master of Engineering.
Students who study MEng engineering courses
start as an undergraduate.
They study for 4 or 5 years and are awarded a
complete Masters degree when they graduate.
These
are courses which are often referred to as ‘Integrated Masters’ – where the
masters qualification is integrated into your complete study.
For more
information about this, head to our dedicated webpage.
Offer Holders – These are students who have applied to study with us and are in receipt of either an Unconditional or Conditional Offer.
Personal ID/UCAS ID Number – A 10-digit number, used to
identify students on UCAS.
It is can also be referred to as a UCAS ID.
Pre-Departure – This is an online event (webinar) for international students to find out about everything they need to know before arriving in the UK to begin their studies.
Sandwich Degree – A sandwich degree is one which offers a
year of practical experience in industry.
This usually includes a work placement or internship between your second and third
year of study.
Student Visa – A Student Route Visa allows international students to study in the UK.
To be eligible for a Student Visa, you must have received a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS).
Tariff – A system which allocates UCAS points
based on a mathematical system using qualifications and grades to generate a
total number of points.
Certain courses will require a higher number of UCAS
Points than others.
UCAS – The Universities and
Colleges Admissions Services – in charge of everything to do with university
applications and places.
UCAS Extra – UCAS Extra is the official
process for late applications, those who have declined their offers, or have
not received an offer yet.
Unconditional Offer – A university offer which does not have any conditions to meet.
Once
accepted, you will be guaranteed a place at the university and be ready for
enrolment.
VIRS – This stand for the Volunteer & Internship Recognition Scheme (VIRS) .
This is a scheme ran by Northumbria Sport to recognise and reward the vital contribution that volunteers and interns make to student sport at Northumbria.
Find out more about the application process.
A Level – An exam taken after GCSEs in England and Wales by young people usually aged 17 or 18.
AS Level – An exam taken for the General Certificate of Education with a smaller course content than A level, it can either be taken as the first part of a full A level or as its own qualification.
T Level – A 2-year course which can be taken after GCSEs instead of A levels which is broadly equivalent to 3 A levels.
If you have any questions about anything covered in this jargon
buster guide, or applying to Northumbria, you can reach out via our social
channels where our team is on-hand to support you.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/business-services/engage-with-us/degree-apprenticeships/become-an-apprentice:
In order to apply for one of our apprenticeship
programmes apprentices are required to be in full-time employment .
If you are in current employment with an organisation who would like to develop your skills, they can fund your apprenticeship via their levy (if they are a levy payer) or via government funding (if they are a non levy payer).
If you are
interested in becoming an apprentice with Northumbria University and you
are not currently in full-time employment view our vacancies section for the latest
opportunities with a range of organisations.
Find out further information about how to become an apprentice below or contact us today to discuss your needs in detail.
Apprentice FAQs
How to be an Apprentice?
Job Vacancies
Business & Workforce Development Events
Apprenticeship Courses

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/news-events/news/times-modern-uni:
Northumbria University has once again been recognised as one
of the top universities in the UK after being awarded the title of Modern
University of the Year 2025 by The Times and The Sunday Times.
The announcement was made today (Friday 20 September) in the
latest edition of the Good University Guide .
It marks an impressive and sustained run of national
recognition for Northumbria University in recent years.
In 2022 Northumbria was crowned Times Higher Education’s
University of the Year, the most prestigious accolade in the UK higher
education sector, in recognition of its transformation over more than a decade
into a research-intensive university with social mobility at its heart.
Earlier that year, Northumbria had recorded the biggest rise in research power of any UK university for the second time in a row in the
national assessment of research excellence in universities, known as the
Research Excellence Framework.
A ranking of 23rd in the UK for
research power – a measure of the quality and scale of research – confirmed
Northumbria’s status as a research-intensive university.
In 2023 the Daily Mail launched its first ever university
guide and awarded Northumbria the titles of both Research University of the
Year and Modern University of the Year in recognition of its research
performance and its deep-seated all-round excellence.
This most recent accolade from The Times and Sunday Times
has been awarded following their analysis of Northumbria’s performance in their
research quality index, increasing student satisfaction and the University’s
overall rise in the table – Northumbria is ranked 43rd overall in
the Good University Guide 2025, an improvement of six places from last year – as
well as its leading work to improve social mobility and create opportunities in
the North East.
The editors noted that Northumbria is “a leading light among
the UK’s modern universities” saying that “Northumbria continues to drive social
mobility and provide a higher education bedrock to the northeast’s talent
pipeline.”
The Good University Guide also noted recent advances in the
University’s research capacity, including the £9 million award to create a
centre for doctoral training in citizen-centred artificial intelligence , £11.5
million to extend the ReNU centre for renewable energy research and the £50 million North East Space Skills and Technology centre , known as NESST.
Professor Andy Long , Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive of
Northumbria University, said: “Northumbria’s achievements in recent years have
been truly remarkable and this award marks another exciting chapter in our
success story.
“Our aim is to attract students from all backgrounds with
the ability and potential to succeed, and currently almost 40% of our students
come from areas with low rates of participation in higher education.
This is
the highest percentage of any research-intensive university, so we know we are
distinctive, and we know we are making a real difference.
Our vision for the
future is to take this University even further and make an even greater
contribution to economic growth and social transformation both regionally and
nationally.
“It is the achievements of our staff, students, graduates
and partners that make Northumbria the distinctive university it is today, and
I know they will share in my pride at being recognised as one of the best in
the country yet again.
I hope they are all recognise the important part they
have played in making it happen.”
The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025 is now
available online at www.thetimes.com/gooduniversityguide and in a 96-page supplement being published in The Sunday Times on 22
September.
Anyone interested in finding out more about studying at
Northumbria can attend the University’s forthcoming open days on Saturday 28
September, Saturday 26 October and Saturday 16 November.
Visit www.northumbria.ac.uk/openday to register interest and book a place.
University Newspaper
Northumbria University News is packed full of news and features covering everything from research projects and business partnerships to student and staff awards.
News and Features
This is the place to find all the latest news releases, feature articles, expert comment, and video and audio clips from Northumbria University

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-accounting-extended-degree-uusxci1:
If you’d like to receive the latest updates from Northumbria about our courses, events, finance & funding then enter your details below.
* At Northumbria we are strongly committed to protecting the privacy of personal data.
To view the University’s Privacy Notice please click here
CLOSE
Option for Placement Year
Option for Study Abroad
Option for Extended Degree
Other Options Available
Northumbria University’s BSc (Hons) Accounting course is about more than just numbers, it gives you fresh insights and a deeper understanding of financial information.
And it’s your starting block for building a rewarding career.
In addition to modules that combine key accounting theory with problem-based learning around real-world scenarios, the course also offers an optional, year-long placement.
It’s an opportunity well worth taking up to give your CV the edge with valuable experience – whether you're interested in a training contract or role in industry accounting.
And depending on the nature of the placement, this may count as the practice element you’ll need for full membership of the highly respected Association of Accounting Technicians.
See other similar courses you may be interested in: Finance and Investment Management BSc (Hons) or Economics BSc
You can also check out all of our other Accounting and Finance Courses and find that one that suits you.
If it is the chartered accountant route that appeals, you’ll need to satisfy the requirements of professional accounting bodies.
So we’ve designed our Accounting course with this in mind.
Currently, our BSc (Hons) offers 42 individual exemptions across six of the world’s largest professional bodies.
These mean you’ll be able to enter the job market with a good number of your professional qualifications already behind you.
Northumbria University’s Accounting course is covered by the prestigious Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) accreditation for Newcastle Business School.
According to AACSB, “ Approximately 6% of the world's schools offering business degree education have achieved AACSB accreditation, demonstrating a commitment to high-quality, rigorous standards, innovation, and continuous process improvement ”.
Read more about our 'double' AACSB Accreditation .
This programme is also accredited by all of the following Professional, Statutory and Regulatory Bodies (PSRBs):
This extended degree provides an alternative route to higher education and supports those who don’t meet the standard entry requirements for an undergraduate degree.
It includes a foundation year which will provide you with an understanding of the wider financial world, applying this knowledge to real world examples.
Over the course of your foundation year, you will be challenged to analyse and interpret financial data, tackle real life organisational issues and build the fundamental skills required in industry.
You will conduct a collaborative research project to enhance your understanding further of the contemporary issues in accounting, finance and economics.
This year develops the academic skills and business awareness to begin applying basic business principles to solve real world problems.
The foundation year of the course delivered at level 3 which develops your ability to study in Higher Education is not accredited.
Subsequent levels and years are accredited and deliver the knowledge, competencies, and skills required to meet the specific course accreditation requirements that relate to the approved accredited award title.
UCAS Code Z016
Level of Study Undergraduate
Mode of Study 4 years Full Time or 5 years with a placement (sandwich)/study abroad
Department Newcastle Business School
Location City Campus, Northumbria University
City Newcastle
Start September 2026
Fees Fee Information
Modules Module Information
Highly acclaimed by clients as successful, as students get to the root of the problem, and results in a detailed report and presentation of their recommendations.
The Business Clinic
The Business Clinic is an education scheme whereby a group of business students participate in a ‘consultancy firm’ to provide advice for our clients.
At NBS we’re Business, but not as usual.
Discover more.
Newcastle Business School
Consultancy Projects
Northumbria business students develop branding strategy for OddBalls Apparel.
Team Northumbria Wins the 12th Greggs Marketing Challenge.
Northumbria named as a Principles for Responsible Management Education Champion.
Northumbria graduate lands dream role at live music venue.
Entrepreneurial student launches marine-based skincare products.
You’ll learn through a combination of lectures, seminars and workshops.
And in many modules there’s an emphasis on real-world scenarios involving problem-based learning and developing technical skills in financial and accounting software.
Following introductions to the key financial accounting techniques and the role of financial managers, a full range of modules covers all accounting areas from corporate and group accounting and governance, through to management accounting, taxation, business law for accountants and more.
We encourage you to take an optional year-long placement as it’s a great opportunity to put your knowledge into practice and gain industry experience.
You’ll also have the chance to spend this optional year in another country, studying at a university with links to Northumbria.
This will broaden your international horizons and help you prepare you for a career in the multicultural world of finance.
Alongside our teaching, you’ll benefit from a well-designed support system, to help you develop the academic study skills you need.
And we make sure that we build extensive feedback, from both tutors and peers, into the course.
If you’re a non-UK student, you can choose optional sessions to help you develop both your academic language and study skills.
In some cases, assessments include exams that will exempt you from those set by professional bodies.
As well as assignments, portfolios and presentations, you’ll also complete an extended piece of work such as a dissertation, management enquiry or consultancy report.
Newcastle Business School is part of an elite group of business schools worldwide with double accreditation from the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) in business and accounting.
So you’ll be taught by experts from the accounting and finance industries, including qualified management and financial accountants.
The School’s teaching team is always looking to explore new fields of knowledge and generate ground-breaking concepts and insights.
View all staff profiles
At Newcastle Business School you’ll experience a first-class education in a world-class environment.
From our social spaces and hub areas to lecture theatres and exhibition spaces, our facilities are exceptional.
For example, the 24/7 university library achieves some of the highest levels of student satisfaction in the UK and has held the Cabinet Office accreditation for Customer Service Excellence since 2010.
We’re also committed to helping you make the most of Technology Enhanced Learning (TEL) by embedding it throughout the course.
Tools such as the ‘Blackboard’ eLearning Portal and electronic reading lists are there to help you efficiently and thoroughly prepare for seminars and independent research.
Lecture capture software means you can revise previously lectured material online in your time, as well as at your speed.
What’s more, there are plenty of opportunities to put your learning into practice through volunteering, internships and placements.
This includes the Business Clinic that enables our students to participate in a ‘consultancy firm’ to provide advice for our region’s businesses.
Newcastle Business School delivers first class teaching in a world class environment.
City Campus East
Bloomberg Trading Room
Digital Commons Library
With us, your learning will be influenced and inspired by our teaching team’s active research into their specialist subjects.
These include forensic and investigative accounting, as well as corporate governance.
All modules reflect a research-rich approach that will help you become a more critical, reflective and independent thinker.
You’ll become skilled in formulating questions, critiquing different interpretations, and developing well-founded arguments.
You’ll develop strong research foundations in statistics and analytics.
In the final year of your degree you’ll undertake a significant investigation either as a dissertation or consultancy project.
Discover all the research areas our staff and students are involved in.
Research Interest Groups
Impact Case Studies
Responsible Business
With 42 exemptions, our BSc Accounting will minimise the number of exams you’ll need to take after graduation to qualify as an accountant.
In many cases, you’ll need to take only a few of the final level papers.
Our Careers and Employment Service are there to help kick-start your next steps through stimulating workshops, helpful one-to-one advice and networking opportunities.
Many of our graduates move on to one of the ‘big four’ accounting firms or into a role in industry accounting.
There they take up training contracts and complete professional qualifications.
Recent destinations for graduates from this course include graduate training at PWC and Tait Walker, accountant at Procter & Gamble, and accounting assistant at Billy Casper Golf.
As an accountant you’ll undertake financial audits, manage financial systems and budgets, and provide professional advice.
And as you progress in your career, you may move into wider leadership roles.
One in six of the UK’s top 100 CEOs started out with a finance or accounting degree.
If further study beckons after graduation, you can do so as a postgraduate through a course such as our MSc in Forensic Accounting .
Whatever you decide to do, you’ll have strong employability as a Northumbria graduate as every module of Northumbria Business School courses reinforces what you need to succeed.
This includes the transferable skills that really matter to employers such as critical reflection and self-learning, collaboration and curiosity, and the ability to solve problems in sustainable and ethical ways.
From first year through to final year and beyond graduation, we are here to help.
We have a fantastic service for students' to use to gain advice and tips on furthering careers and enhancing their employability.
Careers and Employment Services
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Accounting.
Speak to staff and students from the course and get a tour of the facilities.
64 to 80 Tariff Points
From a combination of acceptable Level 3 qualifications which may include: A-level, T Level, BTEC Diplomas/Extended Diplomas, Scottish and Irish Highers, Access to HE Diplomas, or the International Baccalaureate.
Find out how many points your qualifications are worth by using the UCAS Tariff calculator: www.ucas.com/ucas/tariff-calculator
Northumbria University is committed to supporting all individuals to achieve their ambitions and we understand that every applicant’s circumstances can be different, which is why we take a flexible approach when making offers for this course.
We have a range of schemes and alternative offers to make sure as many individuals as possible are given an opportunity to study at our university regardless of personal circumstances or background.
Typically, offers range from 64 to 80 UCAS tariff points , but we’ll assess your individual circumstances and potential when reviewing your application
To find out more, review our Northumbria Entry Requirement Essential Information page for further details www.northumbria.ac.uk/entryrequirementsinfo
Subject Requirements:
There are no specific subject requirements for this course.
GCSE Requirements:
Applicants will need Maths and English Language at minimum grade 4/C, or an equivalent.
Additional Requirements:
There are no additional requirements for this course.
International Qualifications:
We welcome applicants with a range of qualifications which may not match those shown above.
If you have qualifications from outside the UK, find out what you need by visiting www.northumbria.ac.uk/yourcountry
English Language Requirements:
International applicants should have a minimum overall IELTS (Academic) score of 6.0 with 5.5 in each component (or an approved equivalent*).
*The university accepts a large number of UK and International Qualifications in place of IELTS.
You can find details of acceptable tests and the required grades in our English Language section: www.northumbria.ac.uk/englishqualifications
UK Fee in Year 1*: TBC
* Government has yet to announce 26/27 tuition fee levels.
International Fee in Year 1: TBC
ADDITIONAL COSTS
TBC
Module information is indicative and is reviewed annually therefore may be subject to change.
Applicants will be informed if there are any changes.
AF3000 -
Professional Practice for Accounting, Finance and Economics (Core,20 Credits)
This module is designed to develop your understanding of professional practice in accounting, finance and economics.
It will empower you to develop a commercial mind-set and will give you the opportunity to find out about what it means to work in accounting, finance and economics sectors.
You will become more confident in generating and implementing new ideas and will begin to develop your own network of business contacts.
You will deepen your understanding of what it means to work in accounting, finance and economics through a series of lectures and seminars.
You will engage with experienced professionals working in accounting, finance and economics through guest lectures and round table discussions that will enable you to deepen your understanding of what it is like to work in your chosen field.
The module centres on collaboration and teamwork, and your team will be required to secure, conduct and record an interview with an established professional and share your experience with the rest of the group (50%).
You will also be required to prepare an individual reflective journal mapping your own personal development and experiences (50%).
This will enable you to develop group work skills, project management skills, communication skills and reflective practice.
AF3001 -
Practical Mathematics and Statistics (Core,20 Credits)
This module provides you with the knowledge and skills of applying a variety of practical mathematical and statistical methods that are used to analyze and interpret financial data.
On the side of mathematics, you will be introduced to a range of subject specific formulas, and related operations such as factoring, grouping, and transposition.
This will be used as an opportunity to review key notation and basic mathematical operations.
Subsequently, linear and some important non-linear functions will be examined in the context of main theories from economics and finance.
In particular, supply and demand theory and the time value of money concepts will be used as key contexts in the example of how important formulas are derived.
On the side of statistics, you will be exposed to formal descriptive statistics and introduced to the key probability distribution functions such as Binomial, Poisson and Normal.
You will use the named probability distribution functions to learn how to formally formulate hypotheses.
AF3002 -
Navigating the Financial World (Core,20 Credits)
This module will to introduce you to key concepts of corporate finance, theories and practice in a business environment.
The module covers core aspects ranging from organisational goals, adding value to shareholders to raising finance.
Specifically, you will study financial objectives of the corporation, shareholder vs.
stakeholders interests, capital structure, decision-making and, the basics of mergers and acquisitions.
Responsible financial management is at the heart of business decision making.
This includes how firms raise finance and the relationship between the business and its stakeholders.
This module will develop your awareness of contemporary financial issues and academic literature surrounding such issues through a research rich approach to teaching.
The module explores case studies alongside interactive lectures designed to develop analytical thinking skills.
In addition, this will cultivate your business curiosity regarding commercial and professional activity in accounting, finance and economics.
Lectures will be supported by seminars, which enable students to examine the cases and lecture topics in greater detail.
The module will engage you with reading and analysing key stories, cases and events in the business press over the last few years, particularly in the Financial Times (which you will have a free university subscription to).
In addition, the module introduces you to the Newcastle Business School Trading Room, a high tech platform specialist software that gives you access to financial and market data and, global news and insights.
AF3003 -
Ethics and Social Responsibility (Core,20 Credits)
This module aims to develop your curiosity and interest of ethical decision making in business, and to help you understand what ethics means from both an individual and organisational perspective.
The module will enable you to develop an awareness of ethical dilemmas in business and challenge you to discuss and debate ethical decision-making as a future employer or employee.
The module further engages you in collecting, reading and reflecting on past business news, events and case studies where ethical dilemmas have been prominent, and will encourage you to use the knowledge you will gain from interactive lectures to contribute to wider discussion and critical debate about ethical issues in business.
In particular, this module will support you in developing a strong commercial awareness around ethics in business today, and leave you with the skills needed to foster good ethical understanding needed throughout your degree and future.
At the end of the module, students will also be able to understand and critically discuss the concepts and topics of corporate social responsibility, as well as business’ responsibility towards sustainability and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
AF3004 -
Business Intelligence and Analytics (Core,20 Credits)
This module is designed to develop your understanding of the role that data and data analytics plays in organisations.
The module will introduce you to various data sources.
It will empower you to build an understanding of how to collect and analyse data.
You will become confident in locating data, interpreting and analysing it to facilitate business decisions.
What and where?
You will consider the different forms of data and learn to recognise data, examining fields, records and tables and carry out searching, filtering and querying.
You will receive an introduction to specific databases that are available in the economic arena including an initial introduction to (indicative examples) the Newcastle Business School Trading room, Eurostat, FAME (Financial Analysis Made Easy) and OSIRIS in addition to  data sources (including electronic journals) available within the library at Northumbria so you can use these throughout your career.
You will learn how to locate company, industry, market and country reports.
Analysing the data You will also build simple models in Excel to facilitate the simple analysis of trading and profitability for different organisations.
You will receive a basic introduction to Excel covering simple functions such as =COUNT, =MAX, =MIN, =AVERAGE etc.
and build formulas to manipulate data.
You will learn how to make valid comparisons and recommend appropriate business decisions.
Presenting the data You will learn how to present to an audience in such a way that they can understand the key findings you have discovered.
You will learn about different graphs/charts and how to present them appropriately.
Employment in data This section briefly considers employment roles/tasks within the data and analytics fields e.g.
being a Data Officer and how data is handled within organisations in line with data protection legislation such as GDPR.
AF3005 -
Contemporary Issues in Accounting, Finance and Economics (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will explore the contemporary issues that are impacting the world of Accounting, Finance and Economics today.
You will be able to understand and critically apprise the issues in order to demonstrate how these contemporary issues are likely to shape the future of the Accounting, Finance and Economics landscape.
For example: Accounting The rise of Artificial Intelligence and changing nature of the Accounting profession Global Accounting standard harmonisation Governance and its impact on companies Finance COVID-19 (Global Pandemics) and market volatility Open Banking Development of FinTech Development of RegTech Economics Global financial crisis China/USA trade war Brexit for macroeconomics You will be assessed my means of a continuous professional development (CPD) event.
You will be expected to prepare a professional briefing paper and present (in your group) to a panel of academics and industry experts.
In this event you will present on your chosen contemporary issue, providing a critical appraisal to demonstrate your understanding of how the issue will impact the Accounting, Finance or Economics landscape.
This will involve you carrying out research on a topic and being able to find innovative and interesting ways to disseminate that research to the experts and your peers during the event.
AF4030 -
Introduction to Mathematics and Statistics (20 Credits)
This module will introduce you to general mathematical and statistical methods used to analyse and interpret accounting, financial and economic data.
The module will address and review essential preliminaries of algebra and mathematical functions, such as linear, polynomial, exponential, and logarithmic functions; expanding on numerical series as well as context- based optimisation problems.
These topics will be complemented with a comprehensive review of descriptive statistics and an introduction to the normal distribution function, the process of statistical estimation, and hypothesis testing carried out by means of both parametric and non-parametric tests.
Key-topics included in this module: 1.
Review of Basic Algebra for accounting, Finance and economics; 2.
Introduction to Differentiation; 3.
Introduction to Numerical Series; 4.
Constrained and Unconstrained Optimisation; 5.
The Normal Distribution Function in the financial world; 6.
Introduction to Statistical Estimation; 7.
Hypotheses Testing of accounting, financial and economic data.
AF4031 -
Accounting, Economics and Finance in a Global Business Environment (20 Credits)
This module will enable you to better understand the economic, institutional, accounting and financial forces influencing the development of markets and exchanges and interactions within the global business environment.
This module will introduce you to analytical models and principles that will help you understand and analyse the global environment in which business decisions are made.
You will develop an appreciation for the variety of factors that influence the choices and compromises that are made in international business and the implications of these choices on businesses.
This module will help you to understand and critically evaluate globalisation, its different dimensions and the surrounding theoretical debates.
The module will equip you with real-world, problem-solving skills and an understanding of academic theory that underpins professional accounting, finance and economics practice.
The module will place emphasis on real-life examples and case studies to position the subjects within the realm of professional accounting, international finance and economic studies.
This will enable you to develop your entrepreneurialmindset by developing your problem solving and analytical skills.
You will study and analyse the business environment at a global level, with a focus on how this impacts the national business environment.
On completion of this module you will be able to analyse the consequences of changing regulatory and cultural environments for business within the context of professional accounting, international finance and economics.
Throughout the module you will develop a deep understanding of the modern economy and the role that accounting and finance play within organisations.
You will explore basic economic theories around international trade and multinational corporations.
You will also gain an understanding of elementary concepts of accounting (internal and external) and auditing and how these support global capital markets.
You will also learn about the financial decision-making processes at the company level in the context of the analysis of financial performance measures.
You will use this knowledge to explore the scale, scope and trends in international business activity and evaluate various methods that firms use to assess, enter and develop domestic and non-domestic markets.
The module will develop your multicultural awareness and knowledge, to introduce you to fundamental principles for purposive ethical decision making.
Finally, you will explore the wider concept of accountability, for example, sustainability reporting and the “Triple Bottom Line”.
You will explore issues of financial literacy and the impact of global poverty, the digital divide and the economic and social consequences of global uneven income distribution.
AF4032 -
Careers in Accounting, Economics and Finance (Core,20 Credits)
This module provides you with the skills and knowledge you need to successfully secure a relevant undergraduate placement and/or a graduate-level role in your chosen discipline of Accounting, Finance and Economics.
You will cover a number of key topics including career planning, writing CVs, cover letters and application forms, psychometric testing, competency-based interviews, assessment centres and current trends in recruitment and selection practice in accounting, finance and economics.
On completion of this module, you will be equipped with the skills and confidence to make an impactful application to any employer.
AF4033 -
Introduction to Financial Accounting (20 Credits)
The aim of this module is to provide you with the skills and knowledge to be able to go into a business and apply various accounting techniques to assist a wide range of stakeholders, making a variety of decisions in relation to a business.
On completion of the module you will be able to use accounting techniques and technologies to design and monitor systems to collect, record and summarise business transactions and interpret results.
You will be able to understand the nature and importance of stewardship.
You will gain an introduction into the international regulation of accounting and accounting information.
As well as being able to consider both the professional and business ethical dimensions of the information you will be providing.
In particular you will consider: •	The accounting environment •	The processing of information (including the use of technology tools such as the cloud) •	The accounting system as a control mechanism •	The problems of profit measurement •	The different types of financial reporting •	Interpretation of financial statements and financial information •	Ethical aspects of accounting.
Social responsibility and accounting.
A wider view of capital and profit.
Completion of this module will ensure you have the required knowledge to progress on to the level 5 module Corporate and Group Accounting.
AF4034 -
Business Law for Accountants (20 Credits)
You will develop a basic understanding of the core legal principles, and key aspects of, business law appropriate to your area of study.
In the first part of the module you will be introduced to the legal system and key legal principles.
You will learn the importance of primary sources of law – statute and case law.
You will then go on to study three subject areas which are important for businesses and business practice: •	Contract Law - including the formation of a legal contract, the differences between terms in a contract, remedies for breach of contract, and the law governing the sale of goods and supply of services; •	Employment Law - including principles of employment contracts, duties of employers and employees, discrimination and dismissal; and •	Tort Law - including principles of negligence, vicarious liability, product liability, occupier’s liability and nuisance.
The second half of the module will build upon these core legal topics focusing on the law regulating businesses and business practice specifically.
You will cover nine specific topics: •	Legal forms of business association; •	Formation of a company; •	The role of directors, including appointment, removal, service contracts and legal duties; •	The role of shareholders, including types of shares and ownership and control; •	Company procedure, including the types of resolutions and meeting procedures; •	Equity and debt financing; •	Company accounting requirements and the role of auditors; •	Corporate insolvency; and •	Financial crime, in the form of money laundering and bribery.
Through studying these topics, you will gain an overall understanding of how the UK legal system [or local equivalent] operates and the inter-relationship between statute law and common law.
AF4035 -
Management Accounting and Analytics I (20 Credits)
In this module you will develop a fundamental understanding of the key analytical tools and techniques of management accounting.
The module is designed to introduce you to the nature of management accounting and its role is supporting organisational decision making and analytics, considering issues such as big data analytics.
Topics you will cover will include: • Nature & purpose of Management Accounting • Cost Classification and Accounting for Materials, Labour and Overheads • Costing, including Absorption and Marginal Costing • Cost, Volume Profit Analysis • Budgeting Techniques • Standard Costing Systems & Variance Analysis • Short Term Decision Making • Introduction to World Class Manufacturing • Ethics in the context of Management Accounting Analytics, environmental considerations and ethics in the context of management accounting will be a continued theme in the module, including corporate social responsibility and accounting for sustainability.
On completing the module you will be able to correctly apply management accounting analytical techniques and use appropriate conclusions to support decision making in a business context.
The module is an excellent grounding on which to continue your studies of management accounting for example progression to Management Accounting and Analytics II at level 5.
GA4001 -
Academic Language Skills for Newcastle Business School (Core – for International and EU students only,0 Credits)
Academic skills when studying away from your home country can differ due to cultural and language differences in teaching and assessment practices.
This module is designed to support your transition in the use and practice of technical language and subject specific skills around assessments and teaching provision in your chosen subject.
The overall aim of this module is to develop your abilities to read and study effectively for academic purposes; to develop your skills in analysing and using source material in seminars and academic writing and to develop your use and application of language and communications skills to a higher level.
The topics you will cover on the module include: •	Understanding assignment briefs and exam questions.
•	Developing academic writing skills, including citation, paraphrasing, and summarising.
•	Practising ‘critical reading’ and ‘critical writing’ •	Planning and structuring academic assignments (e.g.
essays, reports and presentations).
•	Avoiding academic misconduct and gaining credit by using academic sources and referencing effectively.
•	Listening skills for lectures.
•	Speaking in seminar presentations.
•	Presenting your ideas •	Giving discipline-related academic presentations, experiencing peer observation, and receiving formative feedback.
•	Speed reading techniques.
•	Developing self-reflection skills.
AF5030 -
Financial Markets and Institutions (20 Credits)
You will learn the key aspects of the regulations, ethics and professional body requirements that define the ‘rules’ for the financial sector.
You will draw from a range of historical case studies to see how regulation within the financial system has transformed.
You will be encouraged to discuss and critique the latest regulation changes using academic literature to back up your arguments.
You will explore the main financial instruments that are issued and traded including: money market instruments; bonds; equities; foreign exchange; and Insurance.
You will learn about these instruments in the context of risk taking and the worldwide markets in which they are traded as well as the principal institutions that use these instruments.
To apply the knowledge acquired in this module, you will be using real-time financial information.
Therefore, throughout the module you will be required to keep up to date with the latest developments within the financial markets and sector commercial awareness to enable you to contribute to this module.
AF5031 -
Professional Practice in Accounting, Economics and Finance (Core,20 Credits)
The word professional means slightly different things to different people, however it is commonly used to describe someone who has acquired and uses a high level of technical knowledge and has the ability to judge the manner of how, when and where to use this knowledge.
But the business environment has changed dramatically over the last twenty years, increased regulation, globalisation, more complex financial transactions, the opportunities provided by big data and analytics as well as the demand of good corporate governance and improved corporate social responsibility.
These changes have meant that the professional can no longer rely on expert knowledge and needs to develop skills and abilities to help them manage the dynamic environment in which they operate.
This innovative module attempts to provide students with a range of skills and practices, taught in the context of the particular functional specialism, which will prepare the student for a range of future opportunities.
This module aims to prepare you for your future studies at Level 6 and work-based learning.
It focuses on developing your skills and abilities to critically assess, analyse and manage business-based problems and projects, with emphasis on a range of business models.
The module will focus on accounting, finance or economics to support demonstration of understanding and application of relevant theory from your professional/academic area as appropriate.
There also will be opportunities to consider broader contemporary challenges for organisations in responding to changing practices of responsible and sustainable management.
On completion of the module you will have enhanced your problem-solving skills and will be able to manage complex projects.
By focusing on advanced group and team working skills, research and complex problem solving skills, project management, communication skills, report writing skills and self-directed learning, you will also develop employability and leadership attributes, including set direction, engage, drive, collaborate, learn, innovate and act ethically.
AF5032 -
Corporate Governance and Responsibility (20 Credits)
This module will develop your knowledge of corporate governance and corporate responsibility.
You will learn how these two concepts have evolved over the last two decades, highlighting the dynamic relationship between companies and their stakeholders.
The module enables you to develop an in-depth understanding of practices and failures of corporate governance and responsibility.
Your learning is driven by your engagement with business cases and the theoretical frameworks that underpin our understanding of corporate governance and responsibility.
Throughout the degree you will become knowledgeable about the theory and practice of responsible business and its management, focused on accounting, in an international context.
Essentially, you will learn about the role of accountants in ensuring effective corporate governance, including understanding key corporate governance mechanisms such as the board of directors, executives’ remuneration, corporate takeovers, shareholder activism as well as development of corporate governance codes in the UK and internationally.
You will also learn about small (SME) and family business corporate governance.
Moreover, within the corporate responsibility part of this module, you examine business’ responsibility towards non-financial stakeholders, by studying approaches to measuring and reporting firms’ corporate social responsibility and performance.
In doing so, the background and origins of social and environmental accounting are explored.
At the end of the module, you will become knowledgeable and be able to critically discuss the concepts and topics of corporate responsibility, social and environmental accounting and regulation, as well as business’ responsibility towards sustainability and ethics.
AF5033 -
Corporate and Group Accounting (20 Credits)
This module will enable you to develop your knowledge and understanding of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and builds on your previous financial accounting studies.
You will begin by studying the regulatory and conceptual frameworks, which underpin financial reporting, and you will gain an understanding of how these frameworks inform the standard setting process.
You will also gain an awareness of professional and ethical issues surrounding corporate reporting.
The module covers financial reporting for both single entities and groups.
You will study the following International Accounting Standards (IAS) and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): IAS 1 Preparation of financial statements IAS 2 Inventories IAS 7 Statement of cash flows IAS 12 Income taxes IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment IAS 28 Investments in associates IAS 33 Earnings per share IAS 36 Impairments IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets IAS 38 Intangible assets IFRS 3 Business combinations IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers IFR6 16 Leases Finally, you will learn how to analyse and interpret a set of financial statements.
Additional standards/topics will be added as and when they are promulgated.
On completion of this module, you will have gained a thorough understanding of financial reporting and will have developed practical accounting and interpretation skills that will be of particular benefit to those looking to pursue a career in accounting.
You will also study relevant ethical and social implications of non-compliance with accounting standards.
AF5034 -
Applied Taxation (20 Credits)
The module will introduce you to the subject of taxation.
You will learn about the underlying principles and technical areas of taxation as they affect individuals and businesses.
You will study the following five taxes: •	Income tax Topics include: the tax computation, adjustment to profit, capital allowances, basis of assessment, employment income, treatment of pension contributions, property income, trading losses, and partnerships •	Corporation tax Topics include: calculation of the corporation tax liability and the treatment of losses •	Value added tax Topics include: the scope of VAT, registration and deregistration, the tax point, a VAT invoice, output tax and input tax computational issues, types of supplies and VAT schemes •	Capital gains tax Topics include: calculation of gains and losses, part disposals, chattels and wasting assets, shares and securities, principal private residence and reliefs •	Inheritance tax Topics include: chargeable lifetime transfers, exempt transfers and potentially exempt transfers, lifetime tax and tax payable upon death You will also study National Insurance Contribution liabilities for both the self-employed and employees; compliance matters in respect of each of the five taxes above; tax avoidance v tax evasion.
Professional ethics and ethical tax behaviour.
The moral duty of corporations (and individuals) to pay taxes and societal implications.
AF5035 -
Management Accounting and Analytics II (20 Credits)
On this module you will build on the knowledge you acquired studying Management Accounting and Analytics I and be introduced to more advanced management accounting concepts and analytical techniques that support decision making.
The module encompasses the descriptive, diagnostic and predictive analytical role of the management accountant including a look at analytics of big data.
Things that you will cover will include: • Standard costing and variance analysis: further aspects, • Activity based costing and management, • Limiting factor and throughput accounting, • Issues in Budgeting • Strategic cost management, • Pricing decisions and transfer pricing, • Learning curves, • Divisional performance measurement • Ethics and the management accountant • The impact of big data, analytics and associated technologies On completing the module you will be able to select and apply appropriate techniques to provide information to aid a business in the decision making process.
You will go beyond traditional accounting be able to consider decisions within a strategic, environmental, entrepreneurial and ethical context and be able to make appropriate recommendations to a company which adequately considers the risk profile of that company.
Also, you will have developed relevant analytical skills to support the theoretical material introduced throughout this module.
NX9525 -
Newcastle Business School Work Placement Year (Optional,120 Credits)
The Work Placement Year module is a full year 120 credit module available on degree courses which include a work placement year which is taken as an additional year of study between levels 5 and 6.
The placement consists of 48 weeks of full time work experience in a host organisation which is relevant to your studies.
The placement is an important element of your course structure and it will provide you with the opportunity to: •	Experience the environment of a real workplace which will help you decide the type of career you would like to follow after graduation •	Develop your organisational and interpersonal skills required to enable you to work efficiently as a member of  a team •	Acquire and develop relevant technical skills associated with the nature of your work •	Identify, analyse and discuss with experienced practitioners how theoretical concepts are adapted and applied to suit practical requirements •	Apply knowledge that will help you to plan and evaluate future study and career development.
This is a Pass/Fail module and so does not contribute to your degree classification.
When taken and passed, however, the Placement Year is recognised in your transcript as a 120 credit Work Placement Module and on your degree certificate in the format “Degree title (with Work Placement Year)”.
The learning and teaching on your placement will be recorded in the training agreement signed by you, the placement provider, and the University.
NX9526 -
Newcastle Business School Study Abroad Year (Optional,120 Credits)
The Study Abroad Year module is a full year 120 credit module which is available on degree courses which include a study abroad year which is taken as an additional year of study between levels 5 and 6.
You will undertake a year abroad at a partner university equivalent to 120 UK credits.
The study abroad placement is an important element of your course structure and gives you access to modules from your discipline taught in a different learning culture and so broadens your overall experience of learning.
At the end of the module you will have adapted to and appreciated a different cultural and learning environment and developed ability.
You will have developed your interpersonal and intercultural communication skills as a result of your learning in an international environment.
When taken and passed, however, the Study Abroad Year is recognised in your transcript as a 120 credit Study Abroad Module and on your degree certificate in the format “Degree title (with Study Abroad Year)”.
The learning and teaching on your study abroad placement will be dependent on the partner and will be recorded in the learning agreement signed by you, the host University, and the University.
NX9528 -
Newcastle Business School Blended Placement Year: Work Placement Semester (Optional,60 Credits)
The Work Placement Semester module is a semester long 60 credit module which is available on degree courses which include the option to take a blended placement year of Work and Study Abroad which is taken as an additional year of study between levels 5 and 6.
On this module you will undertake a semester long work placement.
The placement consists of a period of full time work experience in a host organisation equivalent to a full semester of study which is relevant to your studies.
When taken and passed, however, the Placement Year is recognised in your transcript as a 60 credit Work Placement Module.
Combining this with the study abroad semester as part of the third year out of the University, this will be recognised on your degree certificate in the format “Degree title (with Study Abroad and Work Placement Year)”.
NX9529 -
Newcastle Business School Blended Placement Year: Study Abroad Semester (Optional,60 Credits)
The Study Abroad Semester module is a semester long 60 credit module which is available on degree courses which include the option to take a blended placement year of Work and Study Abroad which is taken as an additional year of study between levels 5 and 6.
You will undertake a semester abroad at a partner university equivalent to 60 UK credits.
When taken and passed the study abroad semester will be recognised in your transcript as a 60 credit Study Abroad Module.
Combining this with the work placement semester as part of the third year out of the University, this will be recognised on your degree certificate in the format “Degree title (with Study Abroad and Work Placement Year)”.
AF6030 -
Sustainable Development and Responsible Business (20 Credits)
This module aims to provide students with a comprehensive understanding of key literature, research and economic policy debates in the area of environmental sustainability and responsible business.
The objective of the module is to provide students with appropriate tools and technical know-how to critically discuss the trade-offs between economic development and environmental protection and moving capitalism towards a wider sense of accountability.
The module will explore and examine the linkages between economic policies and environmental sustainability, the effects of international trade and globalisation on environmental resources, the role of international environmental agreements and the emergence of new forms of financial reporting centred on the principles of sustainability and social accountability.
Key topics covered in this module include: • Fundamentals of Environmental Economics and Sustainable Development • Economic Growth and Environmental Conflicts • Measuring Sustainable Economic Welfare • Contingent Valuation and Revealed Preference Methods • Alternative Concepts of Capital: Environmental Accounting, Integrated Reporting, and the Triple Bottom Line • International Trade and Environmental Protection • Stakeholder Activism and Social Responsibility • Political Ecology: Challenging Narratives of Environmental Degradation • Financial Reporting and Climate Change.
• The Circular Economy • The Role of Social and Solidarity Economies
AF6033 -
Assurance (20 Credits)
In this module, you will learn about assurance and the audit profession, through engagement with current academic theory, professional standards and guidance, and ‘real life’ scenarios.
Topics are viewed and taught as interrelated concepts.
The following topics are covered during the module: Audit in Context - What is the role, purpose and value of audit?
You will consider the public interest and the role of audit, and the profession, in society, as well as its role in corporate governance - internal audit, external audit and the audit committee.
- What does the audit report say?
You will learn about the requirements for audit reporting, how they have changed, and whether audit reports are useful.
- What are the professional and statutory rules governing audit?
You will consider the framework of professional standards and legal liability auditors work within.
Audit Ethics You will consider the IFAC Code of Professional Ethics and what it means for auditors.
- How does the nature of the audit business impact on audit ethics?
- How does audit regulation promote or comprise confidence in audit ethics?
- Why do audit ethics matter?
- Threats to audit independence.
Audit Process The identification of audit risk from knowledge of the business and the control environment.
Planning the audit assignment.
Analysis of Business Risk and application to the audit.
Assessment of Risk Management and Internal Control.
The nature of audit evidence and the methods of collection.
The audit of going concern.
Formulating and reporting an audit opinion.
The idea of professional scepticism.
Current Issues in Auditing You will learn about recent high profile debates highlighted by the Competition and Markets Authority study into the statutory audit market, the Kingman review of the future of financial reporting, the Brydon review into the quality and effectiveness of audit and the Redmond review into local authority financial reporting and audit.
You will consider current issues in the world of auditing and assurance such as: - the ongoing independence debate .
audit of complex areas such as going concern and accounting estimates - new developments in auditing standards, - - The role of audit in detection and prevention of fraud.
- The sustainability of the audit market - the assurance of environmental reporting
AF6034 -
Contemporary Issues in Financial Reporting (20 Credits)
You will learn to critically appraise, understand and apply a range of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).
The purpose of this module is for you to learn about a select number of standards in detail.
This involves looking beyond the technical computational elements of the standard, instead focusing on areas of the standards that require the judgement of a professional accountant.
The following standards are examples of those that will be covered in the module, however, the syllabus is updated each academic year in line with standard development: • Conceptual Framework • IAS 38 - Intangible Assets • IAS 32 / IFRS 9 - Financial Instruments • IFRS 10 - Consolidated Financial Statements • IFRS 13 - Fair Value • IFRS 15 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers • IFRS 16 - Leases • IAS 19 - Post-Employment Benefits In addition to the accounting standards mentioned above you will learn about some of the contemporary issues in financial reporting, these include: • Corporate Governance and Compliance • Integrated Reporting ( ) • Impression Management and Content Analysis • Artificial Intelligence and Accounting (including current developments such as Blockchain) • Climate Related Financial Disclosures (and other current reports commissioned by the Regulator) You will be assessed by means of an examination and a continuous professional development (CPD) event.
The examination will consist of a combination of computational, discursive, case study and essay based questions.
The CPD event is a simulated workshop where you will be required to present (in a group) on a contemporary topic in financial reporting.
This will involve you carrying out research on a topic and being able to find innovative and interesting ways to disseminate that research to your peers during the workshop.
AF6035 -
Financial Management (20 Credits)
The module aims to explore the role of the financial manager.
As an accountant you will need to become involved in the wider running of the business and may be a key member of multi-disciplinary teams.
You will benefit from an appreciation of the world of finance and an awareness of how financial decisions are made.
You may decide to pursue a career in financial management and if you decide to go on to study professional accounting qualifications then you will be required to study financial management.
Successful completion of this module will enable you to claim exemptions to certain professional examination papers.
This module provides an appreciation of the financial management function and environment in which a financial manager operates.
You will understand the relationship between risk and return and appreciate the need for financial managers to engage with some risk in order to generate shareholder value.
In this module you will explore frameworks that enable financial managers to take risks in a safer way.
With the emphasis predominately on publicly listed companies, you will look in depth at how a financial manager makes investment, financing and dividend decisions in order to maximise shareholder wealth.
You will examine both interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk and explore ways that the financial manager can use hedging techniques in order to mitigate these foreign exchange risks.
You will learn how small and medium sized enterprises and not for profit organisations have different objectives and how this impacts financial decision making.
The module is delivered to you using weekly lectures and seminars.
Within this module, you will cover the following 12 topics: •	Introduction to financial management and the financial environment •	Application of discounting techniques for finance •	Investment Appraisal techniques (incorporating tax and inflation) •	The effects of risk and uncertainty on investment decisions •	Specific investment decisions •	Sources of finance and the weighted average cost of capital •	Capital structure •	Portfolio Theory •	Efficient market hypothesis •	Dividend policy •	Working capital management •	Risk Management On completing the module, you will be able to select and apply the appropriate financial techniques to support financial appraisal and decision making in a variety of situations.
This will help in strategic decision making.
You will have developed relevant numerical skills to support the theoretical material introduced throughout the module.
AF6042 -
Dissertation (Optional,40 Credits)
The Dissertation module aims to equip you with the necessary intellectual and practical skills for undertaking an individual student-led, ethical investigation into an accounting, economics or finance (AEF) related problem or issue.
In addition, the Dissertation aims to equip you with key transferable, employability skills, time management, project management, communication (written and verbal), negotiation, persuasion and influence, discovery, initiative, creativity and innovation in problem-solving and analysis.
The module is student-led but you are supported by, introductory lectures and workshops as well as guest lectures which introduce undertaking AEF research followed by one-to-one or small-group supervision meetings with an academic from the AEF subject discipline.
The lectures and IT workshops will provide a thorough grounding into undertaking an extended piece of researching, focusing on: •	Refining a research aim/question (focusing and scoping the research) and project proposal •	Developing a literature review •	Researching ethically •	Quantitative research and analysis techniques •	Qualitative research and analysis techniques Upon completion of the AFM Dissertation module you will be able to: •	Conduct independent and ethical academic research involving the application and critical evaluation of appropriate theories and models.
•	Engage critically with relevant literature to establish a framework in which to analyse and synthesise the results of your primary or secondary research.
•	Generate / collect relevant primary or secondary data using an appropriate and justified method.
•	Analyse your data using an appropriate and justified method of analysis.
•	Recognise the ethical implications of your work.
•	Critically evaluate the source of your data and the method you adopted.
AF6043 -
Management Enquiry (Optional,40 Credits)
The Management Enquiry module is a student-led individual project that enables you to undertake a significant piece of assessed work commensurate with a capstone module.
The module aims to provide you with an opportunity to demonstrate an authentic engagement with managers and/or professionals from the Accounting, Economics or Finance (AEF) discipline, and to integrate the knowledge you have developed during your programme to explore the theory in practice.
The learning on this module is experiential and problem based, where the focus is upon you discovering, probing, and questioning key practice-based issues.
Through the module you will be offered the opportunity to develop and enhance key transferable employability skills; time management, project management, communication (written, aural and verbal), negotiation, persuasion and influence, discovery, initiative, problem-solving and analysis.
The module has five thematic areas; explore, review, engage, reflect, and connect.
These form the key elements of the assessed submission.
Part A (35%, 3,500 Words) •	Explore: Interviewing a manager and/or professional from the AEF discipline.
In this interview you will either explore a key issue which you feel AEF is facing or, alternatively, explore with the manager or professional the key issues that they feel they are facing in practice.
It is expected that you will apply appropriate interview methods and provide evidence of the interview within the submitted enquiry report (e.g.
within the appendices).
•	Review: Critically examining the appropriate literature to support the exploration, displaying an ability to critically assess and appraise the AEF knowledge related to a specific key issue arising from your exploration.
Part B (65%, 6,500 Words) •	Engage: Displaying an authentic engagement with the AEF problem/issue identified in Part A, by collecting/generating and analysing further live data (beyond the initial interview) regarding the AEF problem/issue.
This live data may be primary data (e.g.
further interviews with, or questionnaire to, managers and/or professionals in practice) or secondary data (e.g.
industry data).
Application of appropriate, ethically-considered, research methods and appropriate qualitative or quantitative data analysis.
-	Reflect and Connect: Demonstrating an ability to critically evaluate and reflect on the issues arising from the Management Enquiry.
Demonstrating how you have connected and fed-back to the participants of the Enquiry (usually the manager and/or participants) your key findings to provide clear prioritised, well-justified, practical, and actionable recommendations for change/enhancement/improvement to existing AEF practice to show how the recommendations would potentially affect workplace professional decision making.
NX9626 -
Undergraduate Consultancy Project (Optional,40 Credits)
The module aims to provide you with an opportunity to integrate the knowledge acquired during the programme and apply this to a consultancy project for a real organisation.
This consultancy project provides a vehicle for participants to develop and demonstrate key employability skills, to relate theory to practice, and to undertake a significant piece of assessed work commensurate with a capstone module.
You will work on behalf of an external organisation, which has identified a business problem or question, requiring a solution, working in small group of typically 4 individuals (you will select their own team members), participating in group and individual activities.
The host organisation will provide a project briefing, and review; students will be supported by appropriate academic input and guidance from Newcastle Business School in the form of a mentor and via the Business Clinic.
Our Applicant Services team will be happy to help.
They can be contacted on 0191 406 0901 or by using our Contact Form .
Full
time Courses are primarily delivered via on-campus face to face
learning but could include elements of online learning.
Most courses
run as planned and as promoted on our website and via our marketing
materials, but if there are any substantial changes (as determined by
the Competition and Markets Authority) to a course or there is the
potential that course may be withdrawn, we will notify all affected
applicants as soon as possible with advice and guidance regarding their
options.
It is also important to be aware that optional modules listed
on course pages may be subject to change depending on uptake numbers
each year.
Contact time is subject to increase or decrease in
line with possible restrictions imposed by the government or the
University in the interest of maintaining the health and safety and
wellbeing of students, staff, and visitors if this is deemed necessary
in future.
Northumbria University is committed to developing an inclusive, diverse and accessible campus and wider University community and are determined to ensure that opportunities we provide are open to all.
We are proud to work in partnership with AccessAble to provide Detailed Access Guides to our buildings and facilities across our City, Coach Lane and London Campuses.
A Detailed Access Guide lets you know what access will be like when you visit somewhere.
It looks at the route you will use getting in and what is available inside.
All guides have Accessibility Symbols that give you a quick overview of what is available, and photographs to show you what to expect.
The guides are produced by trained surveyors who visit our campuses annually to ensure you have trusted and accurate information.
You can use Northumbria’s AccessAble Guides anytime to check the accessibility of a building or facility and to plan your routes and journeys.
Search by location, building or accessibility feature to find the information you need.
We are dedicated to helping students who may require additional support during their student journey and offer 1-1 advice and guidance appropriate to individual requirements.
If you feel you may need additional support you can find out more about what we offer here where you can also contact us with any questions you may have:
Accessibility support
Student Inclusion support

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-accounting-and-finance-completion-award-newcastle-uufatf1:
Accounting and Finance (Top-Up) is designed to provide you with a well-rounded understanding of business while also allowing you to develop specialised knowledge in accounting and finance, alongside transferable professional and managerial skills.
This course includes specialised modules focusing on strategic accounting and financial reporting, offering a strong foundation for finance, banking, government and general business leadership careers.
The relevance, rigour, and internationalisation of this course are set to meet some of the highest accreditation levels; there is ample support for you to develop the required academic study skills.
Whatever your background, we will assist you in adopting the more critical and research-informed approach needed for an honours degree at a UK university.
Accredited Degree: This course is covered by the prestigious Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) accreditation for Newcastle Business School.
According to AACSB, “Approximately 6% of the world's schools offering business degree education have achieved AACSB accreditation, demonstrating a commitment to high-quality, rigorous standards, innovation, and continuous process improvement”.
Other courses you may be interested in: Accounting and Finance (Top-Up) BSc (Hons) - 2 Years Full-Time or 3 Years Sandwich .
UCAS Code N421
Mode of Study 1 year Full Time 1 other options available
Start September 2025 or September 2026
Your tutors will challenge you through modules that take a strategic consideration of business and management within an accounting and finance context, as well as a substantial piece of research work that is relevant to a specific research problem within accounting and finance.
Teaching methods include lectures, seminars, and workshops.
There is significant emphasis on independent learning as well as self-directed and group activities as this course is, in effect, the final year of a degree course.
Teaching is backed up by a well-designed support system in order to ensure a successful learning journey and the development of the necessary academic study skills.
Extensive feedback, from both tutors and peers, is built into the course.
Whatever your background, we’ll help you take the more critical, deeper, and research-informed approach that’s needed for an honour’s degree at a UK university.
Our assessment strategy is based on our understanding that everyone has different needs, strengths, and enthusiasms.
Assessment methods will include a portfolio of work, group presentations and reflective statements.
See all of the Modules for this course .
Newcastle Business School has a global reputation for delivering some of the best business management education in the UK.
Our business staff include Fellows of the Higher Education Academy, a member of the British Academy of Management and lecturers who have taught at universities all over the world.
The Newcastle Business School teaching team is always looking to explore new fields of knowledge and generate ground-breaking concepts and insights.
Meet the staff who teach on this course .
At Newcastle Business School you’ll experience a first-class education in a world-class environment.
There are plenty of opportunities to put your learning into practice through volunteering, internships, and placements.
At the heart of each Northumbria campus, our libraries provide a range of study space and technology to suit every learning style.
Search Our Collections →
At Northumbria, we take an enquiry-based, problem-solving approach, encouraging you to develop research skills like information literacy, sampling, statistical reporting, and surveying.
In the final year you’ll undertake a significant investigatory task that can be either a dissertation or consultancy project.
Throughout the course your learning will be directly informed by the teaching team’s active research into their specialist subjects, as well as our three signature research themes that include digital business, strategic innovation and entrepreneurial leadership, and responsible business.
Specific areas of research include financial crime, corporate reporting, social entrepreneurship, business ethics, economic development, emerging mobile technology and post-recession business strategy.
At the end of this course there are logical career paths into accounting and finance roles with leading accounting practices.
Equally you can move into a range of careers in business and management, both in the UK and around the world.
You can also undertake further study at postgraduate level with a course such as our International Finance and Investment MSc.
Whatever you decide to do, you will have strong employability as a result of having acquired the characteristics of a Northumbria graduate.
These include critical reflection and self-learning, collaboration and curiosity, and the ability to apply your knowledge to solve problems in ways that are sustainable and ethical.
The course includes the ‘Career Development and Research Informed Learning’ module that will equip you with knowledge and skills for academic success and long-term career development.
As part of this you’ll explore your personality, values, abilities, and interests to make a well-informed career choice and develop a career plan.
Every module will play a role in developing and reinforcing the transferable attributes that are necessary for graduate employment: effective time management, excellent communication, good teamwork, and high-level analysis.
In addition, our Careers and Employment Service will offer a range of workshops, one-to-one advice, and networking opportunities.
Experience Accounting and Finance virtually or in-person.
BTEC HND/Foundation Degree with an Overall Pass (or equivalent) in a related subject.
Applicants holding a relevant business and management qualification in addition to one of the following: DipHE, any Level 5 award such as Certificate, Diploma or NVQ, will also be considered.
Please note that applicants without formal qualifications yet with appropriate work experience are also encouraged to apply.
Non-standard qualifications/work experience will need to be considered on an individual basis.
International Qualifications: We welcome applicants with a range of qualifications which may not match those shown above.
If you have qualifications from outside the UK, find out what you need by visiting www.northumbria.ac.uk/yourcountry English Language Requirements: International applicants should have a minimum overall IELTS (Academic) score of 6.0 with 5.5 in each component (or an approved equivalent*).
UK Fee in Year 1:

                                £9,535
* This is the tuition fee for your first year of study.
You should expect to pay tuition fees for every year of study.
The University may increase fees in the second and subsequent years of your course at our discretion in line with any inflationary or other uplift, as decided by the UK Government, up to the maximum amount for fees permitted by UK law or regulation for that academic year.
To give students an indication of the likely scale of any future increase, the UK government has recently suggested that increases may be linked to RPIX ( Retail Price Index excluding mortgage interest payments) * Fees subject to annual increases over the course of the period of study.
Students will be liable for payment of any/all tuition fees which are not sponsored by their employer or other third party.
To give students an indication of the likely scale of any future increase, the UK government has recently suggested that increases may be linked to RPIX ( Retail Price Index excluding mortgage interest payments)
* Fees subject to annual increases over the course of the period of study.
International Fee in Year 1: £20,950
Whilst books are available via the University Library, there are various advised/recommended books you may wish to purchase throughout the duration of this course, costs are approximately £500.00
AF6002 -
International Finance and Responsible Financial Management (Core,20 Credits)
This module is designed for business students to develop a non-technical understanding of the key aspects of corporate financial theory and practice.
The module covers the core aspects of raising capital and determining financing, though to investing capital in major corporate decisions, and finally returning value to shareholders.
Specifically you will study in the module; Sustainable Value Management, Stock Market Efficiency, Capital Asset Pricing Model, Portfolio Theory, International Cost of Capital, Capital Structure Decisions, Dividend Policy, Corporate Valuation and International Merger & Acquisition activity.
The module has a focus on business responsibility of all of those areas, concentrating on professional codes of conduct in areas such as the banking industry, accounting and similar finance areas, and the types of dilemmas that graduates could face in professional practice.
This module will develop you as a critical and reflective practitioner.
In the module you will become more aware of the issues that responsible businesses face when attempting to implement financial concepts and theories into practice.
On completion of this module you will have produced a reflective learning journal (in the form of a Blog) based on your evaluation of theory to real world scenarios.
As part of that journal will have watched and reflected on appropriate financial documentaries and movies which explore responsible financial management issues.
Finally you will be apply your academic knowledge to a real world case and be able to critically evaluate the tensions between the financial academic theories as a responsible business attempts to maximise shareholder wealth.
critically evaluate the tensions between the financial academic theories as a responsible business attempts to maximise shareholder wealth.
AF6004 -
Contemporary Corporate Reporting (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn how to read and critically interpret both the financial information and narrative content of company reports.
To do this, you will study the theory and context of corporate reporting, including ethical issues, and the international framework for reporting, as well as very practical techniques such as ratio analysis.
Building on the calculation of ratios studied in previous modules, you will use ratios to help you analyse a company’s performance by selecting appropriate comparators and considering the figures in the context of a company’s industry and its business strategy.
You will also consider the role of integrated reporting and sustainability reporting.
You will study impression management theories and apply these to evaluate how companies present themselves in their corporate reports.
The syllabus includes: •	regulatory and ethical framework, including the Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting •	Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (GAAP) and convergence towards International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) •	the constituent elements of financial statements: balance sheets, income statements, cash flow statements, statements of changes in equity, notes to the accounts and accounting policies, and how to interpret these •	other elements of the annual report, such as the corporate governance report and auditor’s report, and how to interpret these •	progress in integrated reporting and sustainability reporting •	efficient market hypothesis, and how the market views the information in corporate reports •	impression management in corporate reporting •	current issues arising
AF6010 -
Strategic Management Accounting (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will develop an understanding of the nature of Strategic Management Accounting and its use in strategic decision making, planning and control.
There is emphasis on the use of information that  relates to factors external to the firm, as well as non-financial and internally generated information.
Historic approaches of traditional  management accounting have been criticised for providing misleading information and are compared and contrasted to more modern methods of Strategic Management Accounting to assist in business decision making.
You will also gain an appreciation of the ethical issues facing the profession.
In particular you will study the following: •	The nature of devolved decision making •	Traditional costing vs alternative costing methods •	Issues affecting Transfer pricing •	The impact of modern manufacturing & the cost of quality •	Environmental & Sustainability factors •	The use of non-financial information & the Balanced Scorecard •	Management control systems (Budgets) •	The concept of Beyond Budgeting On completing the module you will have an appreciation for Strategic Management Accounting and its role in the strategic management of businesses.
You will be able to use that knowledge to aid businesses in the decision making process.
GA6001 -
•	Dissertation writing requirements •	Research Skills •	Ethical considerations •	Understanding research limitations •	Avoiding academic misconduct and gaining credit by using academic sources and referencing effectively.
HR9689 -
Career Development and Research Informed Learning (Core,20 Credits)
This module has twin aims, firstly supporting your transition into UK higher education by developing your academic skills in the context of your business, management and finance studies.
The second aim is to equip you with the necessary knowledge and transferable skills to maximise your future employability and career development.
As a student on level 6 top up programme you may have limited experience of higher education in the UK, hence this module begins by supporting you as a final year undergraduate student to understand, enhance and demonstrate advanced academic skills.
The first part of the module will therefore help you strengthen and enhance your academic writing skills, progress your critical thinking ability and enable you to understand research and how to use academic journal articles.
The second part of the module will focus upon your employability and leadership attributes, exploring key aspects of your knowledge, skills, personality, values and abilities to enable you to make well-informed career choices.
The topics covered on this module will include: •	Academic writing skills; •	Understanding learning styles; •	Working in teams; •	Enhancing critical thinking and writing skills; •	Understanding research and the effective use of journal articles; •	Developing a literature review; •	Understanding Employability and leadership attributes; •	Evaluate the global graduate labour market; •	Design career personal development plan.
This module aims to develop and empower you as a student to become a critical and reflective thinker with respect to both your academic development and to your future career planning.
SM9689 -
Responsible Strategy (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about the context of responsible strategic thinking, how to identify and explore sustainable business opportunities as a source of competitive advantage.
You will gain an appreciation of the overarching principles of setting and executing a responsible and sustainable organisational strategy.
Within the setting of these strategic objectives, you will understand how the associated responsible decision making will impact on both internal and external stakeholders.
Your learning will span across private and public sector organisations, MNEs and SMEs and how each of different organisations and industries interact with the responsible and sustainable business opportunities and challenges.
TM9644 -
Contemporary Business Enquiry (Core,20 Credits)
This module will draw on your student learning across your undergraduate programme of study, the module aims to provide you with the opportunity to engage in depth with contemporary research in your specialist named degree.
You will learn about critical thinking and reflection, and doing so, you will develop the necessary critical skills to perform both of these effectively as a learner in higher education.
You will develop an enquiring mind and undertake a critical review of existing literature on a contemporary issue within business and management disciplines, applying appropriate methods to collection and analysis of extant research, including reviewing literature and critical evaluation of business practice and academic theory.
The following alternative study options are available for this course:
Sep start
To start your application, simply select the month you would like to start your course.
Home or EU applicants please apply through UCAS
International applicants please apply using the links below
SEPTEMBER
2025

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-accounting-and-finance-newcastle-uusatf1:
Other courses you may be interested in: Accounting and Finance (Top-Up BSc (Hons) - 1 Year Full-Time .
UCAS Code N422
Mode of Study 2 years Full Time or 3 years with a placement (sandwich)/study abroad 1 other options available
You will embark on a number of different modules in your first year including core modules to support your learning journey, and specialist modules within accounting and finance.
You will also have the option of undertaking an additional year in either placement, study abroad or a hybrid of the two.
You will receive guidance on both opportunities led by your Programme Leader, supported by the Director of Employability and the Faculty Lead for Study Abroad.
The university provides significant guidance through our placement office and international partnerships team who enjoy successful relationships with a wide range of employers and global universities.
In your final year, you will be challenged through modules that allow you to take strategic consideration of business and management within an accounting and finance context, as well as a substantial research-based activity that is linked to a specific research problem within accounting and finance.
If you do not undertake the study abroad or placement option, you will be able to choose between either a management enquiry or a consultancy project with an external client as your final year research-based activity to ensure you graduate with ‘real-world’ business experience.
For those that have undertaken a study abroad or placement, you will also have the option of choosing a dissertation.
Whichever you choose, your programme leader will support you in selecting the right option for you and will work with the teaching teams to identify the different modules which best match your career aspirations.
See all the Modules for this course .
Meet our staff who teach on this programme .
Find out what research our Newcastle Business School students and staff are taking part in.
If you decide to start up your own business, it’s good to know that the combined turnover of our graduates’ start-up companies is higher than that of any other UK university.
BTEC HNC with an overall Pass (or equivalent) in a related subject.
AF5037 -
Personal Finance and Wealth Planning (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about personal finance and wealth planning with a view to understanding how different financial products can be used to satisfy different client needs and circumstances.
You will learn about client appraisal; personal taxation (to include income tax, capital gains tax and inheritance tax); building an investment portfolio; mortgage finance; the handling of personal debt; insurance planning; retirement planning and estate planning in the financial planning process.
AF5043 -
Decision Making in the Financial Environment (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn how different types of financial decisions are made in the business environment.
You will cover three main areas; how financial statements are used in financial decision making; how managers can use cost and revenue information to make short terms decisions; and strategic investment decision making based on investment appraisal techniques.
Specific topic areas will include: Financial statements for decision making: The reporting frameworks and ethical principles that underpin financial reporting and the importance of international reporting standards The informational content of  financial statements using ratio analysis – an introduction to fundamental analysis.
Short term decision making: The nature of cost behaviour and an introduction to Cost, volume, profit analysis Relevant costs for decision making Budgeting and control (including the use of big data and AI) Dealing with risk and uncertainty Strategic decision making Investment appraisal techniques (payback, accounting rate of return, net present value and internal rate of return) including how to treat taxation and inflation Practical aspects of investment appraisal (capital rationing, repeated investment decisions and lease v buy decisions) Managing investment in working capital Introduction to cost of capital.
The indicative schedule will be 1.
Introduction to the module – decision making in the financial environment (to include introduction to financial statements) 2.
Using financial statements to make decisions 3.
Short term decision making – The nature of cost behaviour and introduction to CVP 4.
Short term decision making – Relevant costing 5.
Short term decision making – Budgeting and control (Big data, AI) 6.
Short term decision making – Risk and Uncertainty 7.
Strategic decision making – Investment appraisal – basic techniques 8.
Strategic decision making – Investment appraisal incorporation of taxation and inflation 9.
Strategic decision making – Specific investment decisions including how to treat risk and uncertainty.
10.
Strategic decision making – Managing investment in working capital 11.
Strategic decision making – Introduction to the cost of capital 12.
Review of module
AF5044 -
Assurance (Core,20 Credits)
Throughout this module, you will learn about the practice of assurance through ‘real life’ scenarios.
Topics are viewed and taught as interrelated concepts, with the ethical principles of auditors (Accountability, Integrity, Objectivity, Independence, Competence and Rigour, Judgement, Confidentiality) and the process of assurance being taught alongside one another.
The following topics are covered during the module: The Audit & Assurance Context What is the role, purpose, and value of assurance?
What is the role of the audit profession and what are the key professional ethical guidelines?
What are the rules guiding assurance both within the UK and internationally?
Assurance Ethics What are the ethical frameworks offered to the practice of assurance?
How does the nature of the business impact on audit ethics?
How does audit regulation promote or comprise confidence in audit ethics?
Why do audit ethics matter?
Audit Process The process of assurance will include understanding; the identification of audit risk from knowledge of the business and the control environment, planning the assurance process, assessment of risk management and internal control deficiencies through the application of assurance approaches, the nature of audit evidence and the methods of collection and formulating and reporting an audit opinion.
GA5001 -
HR9537 -
Management Research and Analysis (Core,20 Credits)
In this research-based module you will experience a comprehensive coverage of research methods and analysis that will prepare you both for work placement or study abroad opportunities alongside preparation for your final-year “capstone” research module of either Dissertation, Management Enquiry or Consultancy Project and for your future employment, enterprise or entrepreneurial activity.
You will learn how to develop a research question, and linked to this, be able to choose an appropriate method of research, dovetailing both learning experiences to the development of a critical assessment of the academic literature.
You will gain a basic understanding of research philosophy, whilst the coverage and importance given to research ethics will play an important part of your learning within the module and you will appreciate as part of your learning how this underpins research of quality and integrity.
The role of Ethics in research will cover study design, participant selection, data collection, data handling and storage and presentation of research findings.
You will learn how to apply quantitative and qualitative methods.
In the quantitative applications, you will learn about questionnaire design, sampling, presenting and summarising data, statistical inference and hypothesis testing.
You will have the opportunity to use a range of appropriate software tools, including Excel and SPSS.
In the qualitative part of the module, techniques covered will include interviewing and focus groups to collect data, supported by analysis methods including content analysis and thematic analysis.
You will learn how to execute a critical and effective analysis of your research data for both approaches, as well as appreciating the importance of piloting.
HR9588 -
Academic Skills and Employability (Core,20 Credits)
This module has twin aims, firstly supporting your transition into UK higher education by developing your specific skills and attributes to both manage your studies, and to communicate your ideas effectively within the academic community and give you an insight on how these skills contribute to your professional development.
The second aim is to equip you with the necessary knowledge and transferable skills to maximise your chances of finding a placement or entering a graduate level role on completion of your degree.
This module will provide you with the skills to manage your studies effectively at level 5.
It develops your skills in effective communication, independent and critical thinking, and explores how these can be applied to independent research projects.
You will consider how to effectively manage yourself and your studies, how to find appropriate information and use this in your academic writing, develop your academic voice across different communication styles, as well as developing your critical and ethical skills in your studies.
The module evolves through group work and independent study, exploring the concept of employability and career development.
You will examine the process of recruitment and selection, and be supported in the production of CVs, cover letters and the use of psychometric tests in order to ensure that you make an impactful application to any employer.
NX9527 -
Newcastle Business School Study Abroad Semester (Optional,60 Credits)
The Study Abroad Semester module is a semester long 60 credit module which is available on degree courses which include the option to study abroad in Semester 2 of Year 2.
SM9532 -
Strategic Frameworks and Cultural Contexts in International Management (Core,20 Credits)
This module aims to provide you with an understanding of and an introduction to the application of key strategic decision making aspects and their interface with cultural contexts.
The module extends and develops your learnings from Level 4 (in Global Business Environment).
The introduction to global forces shaping international business and the macro business environments at level 4- are taken forward to engage strategic frameworks that businesses may deploy to inform international business.
Key cultural paradigms in relation to international business 2.
Cultural differences as the Big C in CAGE framework and its application 3.
International market entry  and growth 4.
Introduction to IB strategy frameworks such as Porter’s national diamond, CAGE framework (extending the analytical perspective provided by the Big C, triple A framework  and the Bartlett and Ghoshal continuums of choices.
Porter’s five forces and generic strategies also put in context) 5.
Communicating across cultures 6.
Identify and evaluate the issues relating to the management of internationally mobile employees 7.
International business protocol 8.
Ethics and Responsible Business  in context of growth, localised contexts of international markets  and managing the value chain in international business
NX9624 -
The module aims to provide you with an opportunity to demonstrate an authentic engagement with managers and/or professionals in your discipline, and to integrate the knowledge you have developed during your programme to explore the theory in practice.
The learning on this module is experiential and problem based, where the focus is upon you discovering, probing and questioning key practice-based issues.
Through the module you will be offered the opportunity to develop and enhance key transferable employability skills including; time management, project management, communication (written, aural and verbal), negotiation, persuasion and influence, discovery, initiative, problem-solving and analysis.
The module has five thematic areas; explore, review, engage, reflect and connect.
Part A (35%, 3,500 Words) •	Explore: Interviewing a manager and/or professional in your discipline.
In this interview you will either explore a key issue which you feel the discipline is facing or, alternatively, explore with the manager or professional the key issues that they feel they are facing in practice.
•	Review: Critically examining the appropriate literature to support the exploration, displaying an ability to critically assess and appraise the knowledge of your discipline related to a specific key issue arising from your exploration.
Part B (65%, 6,500 Words) •	Engage: Displaying an authentic engagement with the discipline problem/issue identified in Part A, by collecting/generating and analysing further live data (beyond the initial interview) regarding the discipline problem/issue.
•	Reflect and Connect: Demonstrating an ability to critically evaluate and reflect on the issues arising from the Management Enquiry.
Demonstrating how you have connected and fed-back to the participants of the Enquiry (usually the manager and/or participants) your key findings to provide clear prioritised, well-justified, practical and actionable recommendations for change/enhancement/improvement to existing practice to show how the recommendations would potentially affect workplace professional decision making.
NX9625 -
The dissertation module aims to equip you with the necessary intellectual and practical skills for undertaking an individual student-led, ethical investigation into an applied business (or the named degree) problem or issue.
In addition, the dissertation aims to equip you with key transferable, employability skills, including: time management, project management, communication (written and verbal), negotiation, persuasion and influence, discovery, initiative, creativity and innovation in problem-solving, analysis.
The module is student-led but you are supported by, initially, weekly lectures and seminar-workshops which provide an introduction to undertaking Business-Management research followed by one-to-one or small-group supervision meetings.
The lectures and seminar-workshops will cover the following topics: 1.
Developing a research aim/question (focusing and scoping the research) 2.
Developing a literature review 3.
Writing a research proposal 4.
Researching ethically 5.
Quantitative research techniques 6.
Qualitative research techniques 7.
Quantitative analysis techniques 8.
Qualitative analysis techniques Upon completion of the module you will be able to: 1.
Conduct independent and ethical academic research involving the application and critical evaluation of appropriate theories and models, 2.
Engage critically with relevant literature to establish a framework in which to analyse and synthesise the results of your primary or secondary research 3.
Generate / collect relevant primary or secondary data using an appropriate and justified method 4.
Analyse your data using an appropriate and justified method of analysis 5.
Recognise the ethical implications of your work 6.
Critically evaluate the source of your data and the method you adopted

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-accounting-and-finance-completion-award-london-subject-to-validation-uufatl1:
Fee UK/Home Fee: £9,535 per year (25/26) International Fee: £20,950 per year (25/26)
Duration 1-2 years (depending on entry point)
Study mode Full-time classroom
1-2 years (depending on entry point) Full-time classroom
A significant 88% of finance employers have reported experiencing skill shortages (Accountancy Careers, 2024), which showcases that accounting and finance skills are highly desirable in the current job market.
The BSc Accounting and Finance programme will help you build all-round business knowledge, with additional expertise in accounting and finance as well as transferable professional and managerial techniques.
The course provides excellent preparation for a career in finance, banking, government, and general business leadership.
The BSc (Hons) Accounting & Finance programme has been designed specifically to provide you with first-hand experience of financial market facilities and the chance to touch real-time data taught by experts from the accounting and finance industry.
The programme makes use of appropriate technologies to support and enhance your learning experience.
These technologies include an online learning platform that provides access and supporting learning materials, where appropriate lecture capture is used to support and review your learning.
Additional materials include an online reading list and guidance and direction for your independent learning.
Graduates of this programme are well placed to progress into accounting and finance roles, including training contracts with leading accounting practices.
After your studies, you will be able to head-start a career in accounting and finance, both in the UK and around the world.
Typical jobs include:
This programme will boost your employability outcomes by providing you with a key set of sought-after skills.
At Northumbria, you will develop critical reflection, self-learning, collaboration, curiosity, and the ability to apply your knowledge to solve problems in sustainable and ethical ways.
Graduates of this programme will also be ready to specialise further through postgraduate studies in Accounting and Finance related Master’s programmes in UK or abroad.
Level 4 qualification with a pass grade in a business and management-related field
BTEC HND/Foundation Degree or equivalent in a related subject*
*If you have taken a BTEC HND programme, we will usually expect you to have performed to an average of Merit standard.
If you have taken a Foundation Degree, we will be looking for performance to Commendation level, or 60% average.
Applicants holding a relevant business and management qualification in addition to one of the following will also be considered: DipHE, any Level 5 award such as Certificate, Diploma or NVQ.
Level 4 (Year One) entry : If you have good High School Grades or equivalent and IELTS 5.5 with no element less than 5.5, you can apply to study the International Year One.
Non-standard entry : Please note that applicants without formal qualifications yet with appropriate work experience are also encouraged to apply.
We accept a wide range of international qualifications.
Please visit our entry requirements page for country-specific qualifications.
Please note that if your qualifications are not in English, we might need certified translations in order to proceed with your application.
Enquire now
Students with good high school grades (or equivalent),  joining on Level 4 will study our International Year One.
This module will introduce you to key marketing principles and strategies used to research, design, produce, distribute, sell and manage products and services to satisfy a variety of target markets.
You will also gain insight into the various career options within the industry, developing your knowledge and ability to apply marketing principles to different types of organisations, using a variety of marketing tools.
Finally, you will boost employability skills including teamwork, presentation delivery, research and the use of IT.
This module will allow you to explore the driving forces shaping how business interacts with society and the economy.
Your tutors will introduce and create a research-rich learning experience through informative lectures and practical tutor-led workshops.
Wherever possible, this will simulate ‘real-world’ scenarios and you’ll work on a series of tasks during the semester to prepare for the final assessment.
This module introduces you to the foundation links and relationships between an organisation, its management and its people.
It will help you understand how a heightened awareness of people’s workplace behaviour, actions and attitudes leads to successful organisational sustainability and team performance.
With the chance to apply your learning in a practical, discipline-specific context through case studies, you will boost your employability options and career-ready skills.
This module will equip you with the financial knowledge and numerical and problem-solving skills to support informed and effective business decisions.
You will practise investment appraisal techniques, accounting for risk and uncertainty while developing your ability to make accurate decisions in relation to planning and control for a business as a whole.
Through the interpretation of accounts, you will learn real-world skills including how to calculate key measures such as profitability, liquidity, and activity to assess business performance, and how to translate these indicators into meaningful information for key stakeholders.
This module provides essential business skills, giving you a theoretical and applied understanding of statistical and modelling applications supported through practical IT exercises – equipping you with key career-focused skills including proficiency in everyday business software such as Excel.
You will undertake various assessment tasks including a portfolio of preparatory work leading to a short answer examination focused on your findings and problem interpretation.
These analytical, practical IT and interpretative skills are directly transferable to your working life.
This module will enable you to firstly better perform during your International Year One, and secondly develop a range of key academic skills for success.
You will have the chance to practise critical and analytical reading skills, as well as producing informed written and oral responses across a range of content types, including journals, business magazines, data sets, presentations, reports, graphs and charts.
Students holding a Level 4 qualification in a business and management-related field, can directly join the programme on the Year Two (Level 5).
Academic Skills and Employability This module will support your transition into UK higher education by developing your specific skills and attributes to both manage your studies and communicate your ideas effectively within the academic community.
In this module, you will learn how to effectively manage your studies; how to find appropriate information, develop your academic voice across different communication styles and grow your critical and ethical skills.
You will examine the process of recruitment and selection, and be supported in the production of CVs, cover letters and the use of psychometric tests to ensure that you make an impactful application to any employer.
Strategic Frameworks and Cultural Contexts in International Management The internal business and management contexts are likely to be extremely relevant in any organisation you join.
This module will allow you to understand and explore key strategic decision-making aspects and their interface with cultural contexts, including: International market entry and growth Communicating across cultures International business protocol Ethics and responsible business Managing the value chain in international business Personal Finance and Wealth Planning In this module, you will learn about the lifetime financial planning process, how to save and build an effective investment portfolio, the impact of personal taxation, how to obtain a mortgage, how to manage debt, how to plan for retirement and even how to manage an estate.
With a focus on both personal and professional outcomes, you will develop the key skills of a financial advisor.
As part of your assessment, you will have the chance to prepare a financial plan for a client, based on comprehensive case studies.
Management Research and Analysis This module introduces research methods and analysis, including topics such as study design, participant selection, data collection, data handling and storage and presentation of research findings.
You will learn how to apply quantitative and qualitative methods, covering key techniques including focus groups to collect data, supported by analysis methods including content analysis and thematic analysis.
You will also learn to use a range of appropriate software tools, including Excel and SPSS.
Decision Making in the Financial Environment This module will provide you with the knowledge and numerical and problem-solving skills that will boost your employability within any business environment.
You will be able to assess the performance of a business’s profitability, solvency, financial structure and working capital management by analysing and interpreting their financial statements.
You will also be able to make decisions in relation to both short- and long-term decisions and decide how to use budgets for planning and control purposes.
You will also be able to deal with risk and uncertainty in a decision-making situation.
Assurance In this module you will explore the nature of assurance and the role of the professional auditor.
You will learn about the practical aspects of assurance engagements, focusing on audit and its role in corporate reporting.
You will also explore the theory supporting current audit practice, including audit risk and audit independence and liability.
You will have the chance to engage with contemporary audit quality issues, the limitations of modern audit processes and related ethical conflicts.
You will participate in ‘audit simulation’ and client ‘case studies’ activities alongside practice-based auditors.
Academic Language Skills for Northumbria London Campus (0 credits – optional) This module is designed to support your transition in the use and practice of technical language and subject specific skills around assessments and teaching provision in your chosen subject.
This module will support your transition into UK higher education by developing your specific skills and attributes to both manage your studies and communicate your ideas effectively within the academic community.
The internal business and management contexts are likely to be extremely relevant in any organisation you join.
This module will allow you to understand and explore key strategic decision-making aspects and their interface with cultural contexts, including:
Personal Finance and Wealth Planning In this module, you will learn about the lifetime financial planning process, how to save and build an effective investment portfolio, the impact of personal taxation, how to obtain a mortgage, how to manage debt, how to plan for retirement and even how to manage an estate.
In this module, you will learn about the lifetime financial planning process, how to save and build an effective investment portfolio, the impact of personal taxation, how to obtain a mortgage, how to manage debt, how to plan for retirement and even how to manage an estate.
This module introduces research methods and analysis, including topics such as study design, participant selection, data collection, data handling and storage and presentation of research findings.
This module will provide you with the knowledge and numerical and problem-solving skills that will boost your employability within any business environment.
In this module you will explore the nature of assurance and the role of the professional auditor.
Please note continuing students and direct entry students will study a different set of modules.
Continuing students
You will study one of three optional modules plus common modules.
The Dissertation takes an enquiry research-based approach, providing you with the opportunity to examine, in depth, a  Management-related problem or issue of direct interest and/or that faces you from with your working life or work placement.
Initial weekly lectures build from the Level 5 ‘Management Research and Analysis’.
You then work guided by your supervisor to confirm your research area, to generate empirical (primary) or secondary data, to analyse this data and to draw theoretically informed conclusions.
The module aims to equip you with the necessary intellectual and practical skills for undertaking your individual learner-led, responsible, ethical investigation, while concurrently you will further develop key transferable, employability and enterprise skills including: problem-solving and analysis, creative-thinking, time and project management, negotiation, communication (written, aural and verbal), persuasion and influence, discovery, initiative.
The Management Enquiry module is your chance to undertake your own independent investigation into an applied business problem or issue.
It builds on the knowledge you’ve already developed on the Management programmes, with initial lectures introducing you to the underpinning knowledge
and theories needed to get you started.
Associated workshops then support you in putting this knowledge into practice, covering such topics as critically reviewing the literature, ethical research, and quantitative and qualitative research and analysis techniques.
Once you’ve submitted your enquiry proposal, you’ll work though one-to-one or small-group supervisions with your allocated supervisor.
They’ll provide you with on-going formative feedback on your progress as you engage with the Management Enquiry process.
Direct entry students
Students directly joining on Level 6 will study the below modules plus common modules listed below.
This module will help you draw on your range of knowledge and skills developed during your studies to review research literature and evaluate business and management responses to a contemporary issue.
You will undertake an individual investigation into an applied business problem related to your programme specialism.
Upon successful completion of the module, you will have an advanced understanding of a business topic of contemporary interest and a practical understanding of how to use research in evidence-based decision-making in a global business world.
This module will make you aware of current issues and areas of importance within your chosen academic discipline, thus giving you an advantage in the employment market.
The focus on the contemporary knowledge base, supported by investigative study skills, will be useful for those students aspiring to higher-level studies such as Masters’ programme.
This module equips you with the necessary knowledge and transferable skills to enhance your employability, future career development and academic studies for final year undergraduate study.
The module has been designed to develop your academic skills to support your current studies and ensure your transition into higher education.
You will enhance your academic writing skills, develop your critical thinking ability, understand the role and value of research and understand how to effectively use academic journals, all within the context of business and management.
This module will also support your future employability and career development, exploring and reflecting upon your knowledge, skills, personality, values and interests to support you in making well-informed career choices.
Common modules (all students)
In this module, you will learn about the context of responsible strategic thinking and how to identify and explore sustainable business opportunities as a source of competitive advantage.
Working together with your academic tutor and your peers, you will engage in theoretical debates and challenge current business thinking and practices to further advance the application of responsible strategy within the complexities of the global business environment.
You will gain an insight into responsible decision making and how it impacts internal and external stakeholders.
The module will make use of digital learning tools to support the students’ learning and skills development.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the nature of Strategic Management Accounting and its use in strategic decision making, planning and control.
There is emphasis on the use of information that relates to factors external to the firm, as well as non-financial and internally generated information.
Historic approaches of traditional  management accounting have been criticised for providing misleading information and are compared and contrasted to more modern methods of Strategic Management Accounting to assist in business decision making.
By the end of this module you will develop critical evaluation skills necessary for your career.
This will be gained through critically evaluating Strategic Management Accounting concepts and applying them to practice.
You will acquire analytical, analysis and evaluating skills that are important for employment purposes.
The aim of this module is to equip you with the ability to comprehensively understand corporate reports, including financial statements.
You will learn to analyse the performance of a company and critically evaluate the quality of the information given in its corporate reports, from an end user’s perspective.
This is essential for many business roles, and not limited to roles in finance.
In studying this module you will learn about current reporting issues both from an academic, research-based perspective, and from a practical, business perspective.
The assignment and the exercises you will be using for practice are based on actual company reports, so that you are working with and experiencing real world documents.
You will learn how to use appropriate technology to conduct research for your assignment.
How much should we spend?
How much should raise the money?
What sustainable value are we creating?
These are all crucial international corporate finance questions.
This module takes a holistic and reflective approach to your learning, with you developing a portfolio of your consideration of financial topics.
You will engage with financial news stories in the Financial Times or Bloomberg and apply your learning on the module to them, as well as your reflections on financial documentaries, movies and leading applied research in the area which are available on the modules eLP.
This module will develop you to have an awareness of contemporary financial events and the underpinning academic literature surrounding them, so that when you go for an interview with an employer you are able to display a reflective, evaluative and critical understanding of the financial challenges modern business face.
All modules on this course are core and 20 credits unless otherwise stated.
The course information displayed on this page is correct for the academic year 2025/26.
We aim to run the course as advertised however, changes may be necessary due to updates to the curriculum (due to academic or industry developments), student demand or UK compliance reasons.
This course is eligible for student finance through Student Finance England (for eligible home students).
For more information, please visit our dates & fees page .
Please note that your tuition fees do not include the cost of course books that you may choose to purchase, stationery, printing and photocopying, accommodation, living expenses, travel or any other extracurricular activities.
As a Northumbria University London Campus student, you will have full access to our online digital library with over 400,000 e-books and 50,000 electronic journals.
The modules you will study do not require you to purchase additional textbooks although we recommend you allow an additional £250 for the duration of your studies should you choose to purchase any additional reading materials.
Information for international students
Northumbria University is committed to providing the best possible experience to all our students.
To ensure you secure your place with us, we require our international students to pay a deposit towards their fees.
More information can be found here .
What’s included in your tuition fees?
Your tuition fees cover far more than your time in class with our expert academics, it covers the cost of providing you with excellent services and student experience.
Contact time in class – typically in lectures, seminars and tutorials Access to facilities, including computers, on-campus Wi-Fi, printers, vending machines, quiet study spaces The support of our Careers & Employment Service who help you to become more employable, secure placements and run workshops Academic support – our ACE Team run multiple sessions on academic writing, presenting, exam techniques throughout the semester, as well as 1-2-1 appointments and drop-in sessions Student support services such as our Ask4Help Service.
Find out more about the services available to you on our Student Support page Access to online resources, including a 24/ 7 Library with over 400,000 e-books and 50,000 electronic journals.
Scholarships and bursaries for international students Depending on the country you are from, you may be eligible for a country bursary and/or scholarship when studying this undergraduate programme.
All of our scholarships and bursaries are automatically applied when we process your application and one of our team will be able to confirm your eligibility.
London Cost of Living Bursary Eligible international students will receive an automatic bursary for £1,334, applied at the Conditional Offer as a fee discount.
This bursary is effective for intakes in May 2025, September 2025, January 2026 and May 2026.
This offer excludes Pre-sessional English, standalone Graduate Certificate programmes and sponsored applicants.
If you receive this bursary, you may still be eligible for additional bursaries and scholarships, these will be confirmed at the Unconditional Offer stage.
Full maintenance costs still need to be evidenced when applying for your visa.
This bursary is only available for international students from specific countries.
Please visit our Scholarships page for more information.
Scholarships and bursaries Payment plans for self-funded students If you need support to spread the cost of your tuition, you may be eligible for our payment plan.
Payment plans
Depending on the country you are from, you may be eligible for a country bursary and/or scholarship when studying this undergraduate programme.
London Cost of Living Bursary
Eligible international students will receive an automatic bursary for £1,334, applied at the Conditional Offer as a fee discount.
Scholarships and bursaries
If you need support to spread the cost of your tuition, you may be eligible for our payment plan.
Enquire now to find more information about the course, studying with us, the application process, and to ask any other questions you may have.
Once you’re ready to apply, if you are a UK or a Home student, you will need to apply via UCAS .
If you are an international student, you can apply to us directly following the below instructions.
UCAS applications – UK/ Home students
To apply through UCAS, you will need to use the following codes:
Institute UCAS code: N77 Course UCAS code: N421 (level 6), N422 (level 5)
Find out more about applying through UCAS here
Direct applications – international students
We strongly recommend that you submit your application as early as possible to allow you to complete all of the preparations needed to study in the UK.
After receiving an offer it can take time to arrange your finances and apply for your visa and it is important that you arrive in good time to enrol on your course.
Please refer to the Dates and Fees page.
You can apply online to study the BSc (Hons) Accounting and Finance.
This method allows you to upload your supporting documents at the time of application and automatically receive your student application number.
Please note: For 2025 applications you will be redirected to the Northumbria website to select which intake you would like to apply for.
Year Two entry
Year Three entry
*Please note: to join the first year of this programme you’ll need to apply to the International Year One in Business .
For us to assess your application in a timely manner, it is important that you provide us with the following documents:
You can check more information on how to apply here , including guidelines for the application forms.
At Northumbria University London we welcome applications from disabled students and are committed to ensuring an equal and accessible application journey.
Your application will be considered on an equal basis to all other applications.
Please contact us if you require any assistance.
This website is continually optimised to adhere to accessibility best practice guidelines; tools to assist users with specific accessibility requirements have also been provided.
More information is available in our accessibility statement .
Undergraduate degrees
UK/Home Fee: £9,535 per year (25/26) International Fee: £20,950 per year (25/26)
Entry points directly onto Year 2 and 3 available
IELTS 6.0 with no single element below 5.5, or equivalent
Full-time classroom
1-2 years (depending on entry point)
Coursework
Available
September
In future QA Higher Education would like to contact you with relevant information on our courses, facilities and events and those of our University Partners.
Please confirm you are happy to receive this information by indicating how you would like us to communicate with you below:
Please note, this will overwrite any previous communication preferences you may have already specified to us on our website or websites relating to our University Partners.
You can change your communication preferences at any time.
QA Higher Education will process your personal data as set out in our privacy notice

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-accounting-and-finance-dtfaaf6:
During this Accounting and Finance master's you'll assess and apply key technical accounting and finance procedures to real-world scenarios, gaining a thorough understanding of global financial markets and accounting systems.
You’ll cover topics such as financial planning, corporate reporting and analysis, financial management, auditing, corporate governance, business ethics and international markets.
A key feature of this course is the integration of accounting and finance modules throughout the taught programme.
You will critically evaluate the introduction of technology such as big data, blockchain and the digitalisation of corporate reporting within the Accounting profession.
Aimed at those with an interest in problem-solving and critical thinking, this course welcomes those who have studied accountancy, finance, business, mathematics or economics.
It is also suitable for those who have gained relevant professional experience and want to continue to improve their career prospects.
Our Accounting and Finance MSc will allow students to develop as effective accountants, finance managers, financial analysis and acquire transferable intellectual, research and professional skills.
This masters course in accounting and finance in the UK will help you develop employability skills through business-relevant and research-rich learning.
You’ll gain an understanding of how global economic and financial challenges impact business activity and how organisations interact within the business environment.
You’ll gain the skills needed to critically evaluate current accounting and finance practices, business ethics guidelines and corporate governance frameworks to propose solutions to global challenges.
Why choose Northumbria to study Accounting and Finance MSc?
Newcastle Business School is
accredited by the prestigious Association to Advance Collegiate  Schools of
Business (AACSB).
According to AACSB, “Approximately 6% of the world's schools
offering business degree education have achieved AACSB accreditation,
demonstrating a commitment to high-quality, rigorous standards, innovation, and
continuous process improvement”.
Read more about our ' double' AACSBAccreditation .
See
other similar courses you may be interested in: Finance MSc
Level of Study Postgraduate
Start September 2025
Discover the funding options available to you.
The Robson Laidler Scholarships
International Postgraduate Scholarships
More about the UK Government Loan.
Alumni Discount
Receive up to £2,470 off your course fees.
There will be the opportunity to visit a Chartered Accountancy firm and become familiar with the professional services these firms provide, such as; payroll, consultation and auditing.
You will be encouraged to take responsibility for your own learning, demonstrated through directed learning tasks included in each module.
Assessment is varied, it will include written assignments, oral presentation and exams.
You will also undertake a 15,000-word dissertation, consultancy project, or management enquiry.
Our experienced staff will be assigned to you on an individual supervisor basis to support your chosen topic.
Full details on the modules for this course can be found below.
Visit an Open Day to find out about life in Newcastle, tour our facilities and chat to staff and students.
Book an Open Day
The teaching team on this course consists of highly qualified academics, who boast extensive experience in research and knowledge across accounting, finance and economic fields.
You will be taught by scholars from various backgrounds, each bringing their expertise to enhance your learning experience.
You will have access to a range of learning support services in addition to direct academic assistance.
These will include workshops facilitated by library staff teaching you how to reference correctly and improve your academic writing abilities.
You will also be able to access a variety of online support materials through the electronic learning portal.
This will include; lecture recordings, access to specialist software and webcasts.
The academics who teach this course
Ahmed Sarhan
Programme Leader
Mohammed Mazumder
Assistant Professor
Princess Bwanya
Zary Aftab
Based in City Campus East, Newcastle Business School is comprised of 24,000 square meters of purpose-designed academic accommodation at the cutting edge of design and technology.
The ground floor presents a Harvard style lecture theatre that can accommodate up to 400 people.
The 4th floor contains a dedicated suite for postgraduate teaching.
It concludes teaching rooms, IT labs and a comfortable lounge area for both group and independent work.
Our City Campus Library is open 24/7 and achieves some of the highest levels of student satisfaction in the UK.
It has held the Cabinet Office accreditation for Customer Service Excellence since 2010.
Explore the outstanding facilities available at Newcastle Business School.
Newcastle Business School Facilities
24/7 University Library
The academic support you will receive throughout the six specialist modules will also be complemented by the use of data browsing and analysis software.
This will include DataStream, Bloomberg, Financial Analysis Made Easy (FAME), E-views and STATA.
This software will be used to investigate, analyse and forecast the empirical nature of real-world accounting and financial problems.
You will develop your own advanced research skills and critical understanding whilst working alongside active researchers at the forefront of research in the Accounting and Finance fields.
You will be encouraged to ask and explore innovative research questions, reflecting upon the research process before culminating in the production of a 15,000-word dissertation.
To further enhance your career opportunities, you can benefit from our career guidance service, offering you advice for CV writing, portfolio building and interview preparation.
This course will also help you develop the key employability skills that leading employers in this field are looking for.
You will be introduced to the many changes that automation and other technology have brought to these industries.
This will help you stand out as a pioneer in this field, giving you a competitive edge in the world of employment.
You will also have the opportunity to undertake a consultancy project in place of a dissertation.
This will involve working with an external organisation to help solve a current business problem.
The project will be carried out in a small group with combined independent and group work, giving you valuable practical experience to boost your CV.
Upon graduation from this course, you will be able to move into a range of careers in both the accountancy and financial sectors, including: stockbroker, external auditor, chartered accountant, tax advisor, business development manager, strategic consultant.
Applicants should normally have:
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree in any discipline, or substantial experience of working in a business organisation.
It is recommended that your previous studies have included quantitative elements.
International qualifications:
If you have studied a non-UK qualification, you can see how your qualifications compare to the standard entry criteria by selecting the country that you received the qualification in from our country pages.
Visit www.northumbria.ac.uk/yourcountry
International applicants are required to have a minimum overall IELTS (Academic) score of 6.5 with 5.5 in each component (or approved equivalent*).
The University accepts a large number of UK and International Qualifications in place of IELTS.
You can find details of acceptable tests and the required grades you will need in our English Language section.
Visit www.northumbria.ac.uk/englishqualifications
Full UK Fee:
                                £11,000
Full International Fee:
                                £20,950
Scholarships and Discounts
AF7023 -
Financial Planning and control (Core,20 Credits)
Financial Planning and Control module consolidates current advances in theory and research into the field of management accounting.
It will develop your analytical and interpretative skills concerning the practical concepts of financial planning and control and problem structuring, financial information and the practical issues surrounding the role of management accounting within an organisational context, critical examination of the role of accounting in the areas of managerial decision making, strategic cost management approaches, planning, control (including budgeting), transfer pricing, divisional performance measurement and behavioural implications.
AF7024 -
Corporate Reporting and Analysis (Core,20 Credits)
Corporate Reporting and Analysis module focuses on corporate reports and financial statement analysis.
To achieve the module goals and learning objectives, this module will comprise topics, such as a consideration of corporate reports use and usefulness, the regulation of corporate reporting, form and content of financial reports, and a critical understanding of the conceptual framework of the IASB.
This module will facilitate a critical review and discussion of financial statement characteristics and International Accounting Standards.
Furthermore, the module will introduce students to different financial analysis techniques that facilitate the critical assessment and interpretation of accounts and corporate financial performance.
This module will also discuss the development of Integrated Reporting and its future.
Additionally, the module will help you to identify and evaluate different types of Impression Management in corporate reports.
Finally, the module will introduce and incorporate the contemporary topics in accounting, such as big data, digitalisation, automation, and other technologies that shape the future of accounting profession.
AF7025 -
Audit, Corporate Governance and Ethics (Core,20 Credits)
You will be able to develop your knowledge and critical appreciation of Audit, Corporate Governance, and Ethics.
This module will combine theoretical and practical knowledge of the audit process, fraud detection and professional ethics and engage with academic research about audit and its role in society.
It will enable you to gain knowledge of the principles of the auditing profession using international standards on auditing and to examine the practice of auditing and the underlying concepts, including the need for an independent audit and the development of the role of internal and external auditors in the business society; audit risk and assurance; and audit evidence.
It will also connect to the international aspects of corporate governance, including audit committees, corporate governance models and theories, and the role of corporate governance in recent corporate scandals.
BM9718 -
Research Methods and Analytics for Business Practice (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about a comprehensive range of research methods and business analytics techniques.
This will equip you with the knowledge and practical skills necessary for you to conduct research at Masters’ level and prepare you to complete a Master’s Dissertation, Consultancy Project or Management Enquiry.
By the end of the module you will know how to apply both quantitative and qualitative data collection and business analysis techniques.
In quantitative techniques you will learn about sampling, questionnaire design, statistical inference, and hypothesis testing while qualitative techniques covered will include methods such as interviewing and focus groups.
Analysis methods such as content analysis and thematic analysis will also be covered.
In addition, you will gain some understanding of research philosophy (positivism and interpretivism) and research ethics and you will be able to write a research proposal to bring these ideas together.
Furthermore, this module will provide clear, critical, and analysis of data, you will also be able to consider the use of analytics implementation skills, where you will be introduced to analytics software such as SPSS.
SPSS statistics analysis is one of the powerful solutions that is designed to help businesses and researchers to solve problems by various methods (geospatial analysis, predictive analytics and hypothesis testing).
GA7000 -
Academic Language Skills for Postgraduate Business Students (Core – for International and EU students only,0 Credits)
Studying away from your home country can differ due to cultural and language differences in teaching and assessment practices.
This module is designed to support your transition to postgraduate level study in the use and practice of subject specific skills around assessments and teaching provision in your chosen subject.
The overall aim of this module is to further develop your abilities to read and study effectively for academic purposes; to develop your skills in analysing and using source material in seminars and academic writing and to develop your use and application of language and communications skills suitable for a postgraduate level of study.
The topics you will cover on the module include: • Understanding postgraduate assignment briefs.
• Developing advanced academic writing skills, including citation, paraphrasing, and summarising.
• Practising advanced ‘critical reading’ and ‘critical writing’ • Planning and structuring postgraduate level academic assignments (e.g.
• Avoiding academic misconduct and gaining credit by using academic sources and referencing effectively.
• Speaking in postgraduate seminar presentations.
• Presenting your ideas • Giving discipline-related postgraduate level academic presentations, experiencing peer observation, and receiving formative feedback.
• Postgraduate level speed reading techniques.
• Developing self-reflection skills.
MN0491 -
Corporate Financial Management (Core,20 Credits)
The module introduces you to core concepts regarding the objective of finance, how capital is first raised and then deployed into wealth creating operations and then how wealth is then returned to the providers of capital in an optimal way.
At the end of the module you should be able to demonstrate in-depth knowledge of the fundamentals of corporate finance and develop the skills and ability to analyse corporate finance decisions in both quantitative and qualitative terms.
You will also undertake an individual research project looking into capital market efficiency.
MN0492 -
International Financial Markets and Institutions (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will gain a fundamental understanding of the concepts and theories operating within international financial markets, the financial institutions/participants that comprise the market and its regulation.
Your learning will begin a the macro level, examining the financial system as a whole, the different institutions that comprise it, their roles within it and how they are regulated (with specific reference to banking).
You will learn about market dynamics – what drives markets and finally what drives the markets for specific instruments, namely money market instruments, equities and fixed income.
To apply the knowledge acquired in this module, you will be using financial information and data.
You will also use basic financial arithmetic and statistics through Microsoft Excel.
NX0477 -
NBS Masters Consultancy Project (Optional,60 Credits)
This option is offered as an alternative to the NBS Masters’ Dissertation on all 1-year MSc programmes and in the second semester of year 2 on the 2-year programme variants with Study Abroad and with Advanced Practice (if the students select an Internship in semester 1), again as a Dissertation alternative.
It is also offered as alternative to the Management Investigation on the MBA.
On this consultancy based module you will enhance your individual effectiveness and employability skills by locating the learning and development in an organisational context.
In doing so, you will promote personal and group development, commercial awareness, and a range of inter-personal, intellectual and practical skills and knowledge centred on and demonstrated through a group negotiated real-time work-based project.
The content of the management report will be unique.
The nature and scope of the area of your investigation will be defined and agreed in collaboration with the organisation and the University supervisor.
The syllabus will include: •	Conducting research in organisations.
•	Identifying researchable questions.
•	Consultancy and project management skills.
•	Research methods and doing a literature review •	Presentation, communication and report writing skills.
•	Analysing findings.
•	Writing recommendations and action plans.
•	Reflecting on work based experiential learning.
In undertaking this project based module, you will critically reflect and evaluate upon organisational practices and their relation with academic theory, and in doing so, provide practical and actionable recommendations through an investigative management report.
The assessment for your module consists of a Group Consultancy Report (7,000 words) and Final Client Presentation, weighted at 60%, alongside an Individual Assignment comprising a Literature Review (4000 words) and a Reflective Learning Statement (2,000 words), weighted at 40%.
NX0480 -
The Newcastle Business School Masters Dissertation (Optional,60 Credits)
In this module you will gain an understanding of the academic skills that are required to produce a Masters Dissertation.
By the end of the module you will have written a 15000 word Masters dissertation.
The areas included are: •	Justification for the choice of topic •	Appropriate understanding, awareness and critical analysis of existing and up to date literature evidenced by a comprehensive and well-referenced literature review with an extensive reference list •	Selection, justification and application of an appropriately rigorous methodology - including limitations of the approach selected •	Clear statement of the findings of the research •	Critical analysis of the findings •	Explicit links between the analysis and the conclusions supported by critical argument •	Evidence of original work or thought for example in the form or context of the data collected, analytical process or application of findings
NX9734 -
Masters' Management Enquiry (Optional,60 Credits)
The Masters’ Management Enquiry module is a student-led individual project that enables you to undertake a significant piece of assessed work commensurate with a capstone module and is offered as an alternative to the Masters’ Dissertation and Masters’ Consultancy Project.
The module aims to provide you with an opportunity to demonstrate an authentic engagement with managers and/or professionals in your discipline (this enquiry has to be discipline specific), and to integrate the knowledge you have developed during your programme to explore the theory in practice.
These form the key elements of the assessed submission which is a single 15,000 word report.
Part A (35%, 5,000-5,500 words) Explore: Interviewing a manager and/or professional in your discipline.
It is expected that you will apply non-verbatim documented conversation and provide evidence of the key ideas emerging within the submitted enquiry report (e.g.
Review: Critically examining the academic and practitioner literature to support the exploration, displaying an ability to critically assess and appraise the knowledge of your discipline related to a specific key issue arising from your exploration.
Part B (65%, 9,500-10,000 words) Engage: Displaying an authentic engagement with the discipline problem/issue identified in Part A, by collecting/generating and analysing further live data (beyond the initial interview) regarding the discipline problem/issue.
Reflect and Connect: Demonstrating an ability to critically evaluate and reflect on the issues arising from the Management Enquiry.
Jan start

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-accounting-and-finance-newcastle-dtfaaj6:
Accounting and Finance is a fluid and ever-changing sector, with innovations and best practices continuing to evolve to meet the world’s concerns, on a local and global scale.
During this Accounting and Finance Masters, you will assess and apply key technical accounting and finance procedures to real-world scenarios, gaining a thorough understanding of global financial markets and accounting systems.
You will cover topics such as financial planning, corporate reporting and analysis, financial management, auditing, corporate governance, business ethics and international markets.
As an Accounting and Finance student, you will develop as an effective accountant, finance manager, financial analysis and acquire transferable intellectual, research and professional skills.
Expect to develop employability skills through business-relevant and research-rich learning; you will gain an understanding of how global economic and financial challenges impact business activity and how organisations interact within the business environment.
You will also gain the skills needed to critically evaluate current accounting and finance practices, business ethics guidelines and corporate governance frameworks to propose solutions to global challenges.
Newcastle Business School is accredited by the prestigious
Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB).
According to
AACSB, “Approximately 6% of the world's schools offering business degree
education have achieved AACSB accreditation, demonstrating a commitment to
high-quality, rigorous standards, innovation, and continuous process
improvement”.
Mode of Study 16 months Full Time 1 other options available
Start January 2026
Discover more about Newcastle Business School.
How to apply as a UK or International student.
Information on financing your studies.
Living in Newcastle and studying at Northumbria.
Explore your learning environment.
Biggest riser in research power for second time running (REF 2021).
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree in any discipline, or substantial experience of working in a business organisation.
There are no Additional Costs

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-accounting-uusaci1:
UCAS Code N405
Mode of Study 3 years Full Time or 4 years with a placement (sandwich)/study abroad
Book an Open Day Take a Virtual Tour
112 UCAS Tariff points
Northumbria University is committed to supporting all individuals to achieve their ambitions.
We have a range of schemes and alternative offers to make sure as many individuals as possible are given an opportunity to study at our University regardless of personal circumstances or background.
Applicants will need Maths, Statistics, or Physics at minimum grade 6/B and English Language at minimum grade 4/C, or equivalents.
96 to 112 Tariff Points
Typically, offers range from 96 to 112 UCAS tariff points , but we’ll assess your individual circumstances and potential when reviewing your application
Applicants will need Maths, Statistics, or Physics and English Language at minimum grade 4/C, or equivalents.
Optional text book costs - Whilst books are available via the University Library, there are various advised/recommended books you may wish to purchase throughout the duration of the course, costs are approximately £1,260.00 (£70 per module, 6 modules per year).
Optional educational trip to New York - Whilst students are not expected to attend, the trip is organised with their programme in mind, visiting relevant talks, points of interest.
This trip happens annually (students normally attending once) with a cost of approximately £1500.00.
In addition optional trip to London approximately £300 per student for predominantly transport related costs.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/accounting-finance-and-economics-foundation-year-uusfyf1:
Please note: From September 2026, Foundation Years at Northumbria are changing and will become integrated 'Extended Degrees'.
Register your interest to be kept in the loop about 2026 entry.
This Accounting, Finance and Economics Foundation Year will provide you with an understanding of the wider financial world, applying this knowledge to real world examples.
Over the course of the year, you will be challenged to analyse and interpret financial data, tackle real life organisational issues and build the fundamental skills required in industry.
You will develop the academic skills and business awareness to begin applying basic business principles to solve real world problems.
You will join the Newcastle Business School, which holds double accreditation from the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) in business and accounting.
This accreditation reflects our academic excellence and commitment to developing individuals to achieve their potential through professionally relevant, research engaged education.
Read more about our ' double' AACSB Accreditation .
Upon successful completion of the Foundation Year, you can automatically progress onto the following undergraduate degrees:
Students will also have the option to progress onto other undergraduate business courses and you can also check out all of our other Accounting and Finance Courses and find that one that suits you.
UCAS Code N775
Mode of Study 1 year Full Time followed by a further 3 years Full Time or 4 years with a placement (sandwich)/study abroad
View Department Courses
Throughout the course of the year, you will study six modules designed to introduce you to the theories and concepts of finance in a business and develop your knowledge of applying research methods to real world practice.
You will learn the key theories and concepts of finance and gain an understanding of how this feeds into wider organisational issues.
Modules such as Practical Maths and Stats will provide you with the knowledge and skills required to apply practical methods used to analyse and interpret financial data.
The course provides you with the tools to apply your learning to practical scenarios, and in doing so enhance your decision-making skills.
Our modules deliver content with industry in mind, and respond to the nature of the professions you will later go into.
This will provide you with the opportunity to go out into industry and speak with the likes of entrepreneurs and accountants to understand the professions from beginning to end.
Teaching and assessment will take various forms, including group work, video interviews, and presentations.
A well-designed support system, including a Guidance Tutor, will underpin your learning journey, providing you with a space to discuss both academic and personal issues.
A range of our academic staff, who have a wealth of experience across the accounting, financial and economics industries, will teach you.
A number of our staff have an international background, with a range of specialisms such as decision-making,
Our staff are actively pushing at the frontiers of knowledge and generating new concepts and insights.
In addition to direct academic support, you will also have access to a range of learning support services.
These include sessions facilitated by library staff on core academic skills such as referencing and academic writing.
There are also ranges of online support materials, which are available through the electronic learning portal.
These include; lecture recordings, webcasts, pre-recorded sessions on the use of specialist software and key academic skills.
Based in City Campus East, the Newcastle Business School (CCE 1) comprises of purpose designed academic accommodation at the cutting edge of design and technology.
From social spaces and classrooms to lecture theatres and exhibition space, the facilities on offer are exceptional.
Our ground floor hosts our innovative Bloomberg Trading Room, which allows students to train and learn how to use real time and historical financial news and information.
As part of the Foundation Year, you will learn how to collect and analyse data, building your skills for future study.
Our undergraduate students predominately use the second floor, which provides access to a large suite of computers as well as teaching and seminar space.
At Northumbria, we have a strong research ethos that is an essential aspect of how you will develop as a critical, reflective and independent thinker.
The curriculum of our modules are research-informed, with academics drawing on their personal research throughout lessons.
The active research themes our staff are involved in directly influences your learning, with specialist subjects including forensic accounting, investigative accounting and corporate governance.
You will become skilled in formulating questions, analysing different interpretations and developing well-founded arguments.
At Newcastle Business School, we have excellent links with regional, mid-tier and ‘big four’ accounting firms, as well as with key national financial organisations, enabling our students to experience what it is like to work in accounting and finance.
Upon successful completion of the Foundation Year, you will be positioned to automatically progress onto level 4 study.
Your progression course will then build upon the skills gained throughout the yearlong foundation course, preparing you for future employment in the financial world.
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study at Northumbria.
96 UCAS Tariff points
From a combination of acceptable Level 3 qualifications which may include: A level, T Level, BTEC Diplomas/Extended Diplomas, Scottish and Irish Highers, Access to HE Diplomas or the International Baccalaureate
Find out how many points your qualifications are worth using the UCAS Tariff calculator: www.ucas.com/ucas/tariff-calculator
Subject Requirements: There are no specific subject requirements for this course
GCSE Requirements: Students will need Maths and English Language at minimum grade 4 or C, or the equivalent.
Additional Requirements: There are no additional requirements for this course
International Qualifications: We welcome applicants with a range of qualifications from the UK and worldwide which may not exactly match those shown above.
If you have taken qualifications outside the UK you can find out how your qualifications compare by visiting our country page www.northumbria.ac.uk/yourcountry
English Language Requirements: International applicants are required to have a minimum overall IELTS (Academic) score of 6.0 with 5.5 in each component (or approved equivalent*).
UK Fee in Year 1:

                                £5,760
International Fee in Year 1: £19,350

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/master-of-science-advanced-computer-science-with-advanced-practice-dtsavf6:
Designed to meet the needs of industry, MSc Advanced Computer Science will help you to build on your computing experience and develop cutting-edge IT skills.
You will develop an in-depth understanding of the topics that are defining the industry today and will gain advanced technical skills in areas such as advanced programming, database systems, big data and cloud computing, machine learning, human computer interaction, wireless networks and security.
You will be taught in Northumbria’s brand new purpose-built computing facility on our Newcastle City Centre campus with access to industry standard equipment and technology.
Accredited by BCS, the Chartered Institute for IT for the purposes of partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered IT Professional.
Accredited by BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
Are you interested in pursuing an IT career, but don’t have an undergraduate degree in a computing-related subject?
MSc Computer Science is the course you’ll need to help you change direction.
Mode of Study 2 years Full Time with Advanced Practice
Department Computer and Information Sciences
Start September or January
Masters Funding and Scholarships
On completion of both semesters you will undertake a substantial piece of research and software development related to these modules or an area that particularly interests you.
Each module of the course is individually assessed and assignments can take the form of research reports system analysis documentation, programming exercise, group and project work, exams and presentations.
In a dynamic learning environment with an expert team of staff, you will be taught theoretical and practical research skills such as information literacy, as well as problem solving skills, self-directed learning and communication skills.
You’ll be taught by tutors who have many years’ experience in the computing.
Their experience, combined with their on-going active research, will provide an excellent foundation for your learning.
Northumbria has excellent links to industry including companies, such as Accenture, Hewlett Packard and Sage.
View all Staff Profiles
Dr Fouad Khelifi
Associate Professor
Dr Kay Rogage
Research Fellow in Digital Living
Meet the tutors
Shelagh Keogh
Senior Lecturer
You will have access to dedicated computing areas, which can be used during free periods and into the evenings and weekends.
The Department of Computer and Information Sciences is home to a variety of facilities and equipment to help enhance your studies.
Your Learning Spaces
Explore more
With access to diverse research work carried out by our expert academic staff, we seek to promote innovative and excellent learning and teaching practice, which will improve your student experience here at Northumbria University.
You will develop an understanding of important research methods and approaches that could be directly relatable to the demands of your future career.
Find out more below about our Computer & Information Science research groups.
Digital Health & Wellbeing
Network Systems and Security (NetSyS)
Computer and Information Sciences
See more research from this department
Graduates will be equipped with the latest skills to excel in a variety of careers in the IT industry, such as software engineering, network design and management, artificial intelligence or IT consultancy.
Take a look at what Northumbria has to offer and discover what studying with us can do for you.
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree in a computing-related discipline which included programming in an object-oriented language, system analysis and design, databases, computer operating systems and networks.
Other subject qualifications, equivalent professional qualifications and/or relevant work experience will be considered on an individual basis.
If you have studied a non UK qualification, you can see how your qualifications compare to the standard entry criteria, by selecting the country that you received the qualification in, from our country pages.
English language requirements:
Full UK Fee:
                                £14,000
Full International Fee:
                                £23,950
KF7014 -
Advanced Programming (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about current software best practices and software development architectures.
This module will cover a range of topics that will enable you to research and develop best practices for designing and developing applications that are based around microsystem architectures.
The module will cover a range of topics, such as: 1.
Application architecture design 2.
Understanding ‘Tech Stacks’ 3.
Monolithic vs Microservice architecture 4.
Communication protocols (e.g., API, message broker, services mesh) 5.
Development pipelines
KF7028 -
Research Methods and Project Management (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about research and the processes involved in carrying out research in the area of computer and information sciences.
The module will encompass the full research cycle from development of the initial concept through to final evaluation and reflection on your research.
You will learn how to search, find and evaluate the literature and how to use this to construct a critical literature review.
You will also be able to gain an understanding of different research methods and techniques and how to apply them in practice.
You will be given the opportunity to gain expertise in data and information analysis, from data collection through to the analysis, presentation and interpretation of results.
You will be able to critically evaluate and reflect on the research process.
You will also learn about ethics and professional conduct whilst undertaking research and consider and manage risk (including health and safety) and legal, societal and sustainability issues with respect to a research project.
Alongside this you will be provided with the skills and techniques to effectively manage a project from start to finish, including the planning and monitoring aspects.
KF7031 -
Wireless Networks and Security (Optional,20 Credits)
This module is designed to be suitable for a variety of networking professional roles including those wishing to gain a deeper understanding of 802.11 protocols, security and mobile networks and their security protocols, their weaknesses and how to protect against known attacks..
Additionally, it is suitable for wireless network administrators and support or design staff requiring a greater understanding of the new technologies and applications of modern converged networks and delegates seeking Certified Wireless Security Professional certification.
Below are the learning outcomes of the module: Critical appraisal of  the global nature of WLAN standards and design To gain critical understanding of the core concepts in wireless and mobile communication technologies, modelling of wireless channel, security threats and vulnerabilities associated with wireless networks.
Critically analyse security protocols associated with wireless local area networks (WLANs) as well as apply specialist knowledge to design and evaluate a secure wireless network.
Critically evaluate and apply suitable security measures to protect wireless networks against known vulnerabilities.
Demonstrate ability to work in culturally diverse groups and teams and make appropriate and personal contributions to team effectiveness
KF7032 -
Big Data and Cloud Computing (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will develop knowledge and skills that will enable you to tackle a realistic big data problem, using some of the principal machine learning techniques and statistical approaches used in big data analysis.
Furthermore, you will learn how to implement your solution using an industry leading Cloud computing provider together with appropriate distributed processing environments.
You will learn how to host multi-terabyte sized big datasets using a cloud service provider.
This will includes provisioning a commercial cloud provider, and then mastering appropriate distributed operating systems, such as Hadoop.
You will then learn approaches to processing and analysing big data, based on advanced statistical processing, supervised and unsupervised machine learning algorithms and other state of the art big data analytic methods.
Such techniques include clustering algorithms, pattern based information extraction, linear and non-linear regression, and feature based models.
Inevitably, much work on big data analysis is statistical, so you will therefore develop some relevant statistical understanding.
As data visualization is frequently critical in helping to develop hypotheses about the data, you will also cover and apply problem relevant 2D and 3D visualization methods where appropriate to the particular datasets.
KL7011 -
Advanced Databases (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will learn about the entire data life cycle (from creation to disposal) and will gain a deep understanding of classical database development processes and approaches to modelling, design and management of databases.
You will be able to learn and employ data warehousing techniques to integrate and consolidate data from different sources, which can then be used for business reporting, exploratory data analysis and advanced data analytics.
In addition, you will realise the responsibilities of database designers with respect to professional, legal, security and ethical issues as well as undertaking risk management and evaluation of commercial risk in relation to data management.
Moreover, you get an appreciation of non-traditional data types, systems and applications (e.g., NoSQL Databases), data standards and data quality.
The module will covers topics such as: • An overview of the entire data life cycle (e.g., creation, modelling, representation, usage, maintenance, disposal, etc) • Classical data engineering processes and approaches (modelling, design, implementation and management and access of databases) • Data warehousing • Non-traditional data management technologies (e.g., NoSQL databases) • Data analytics • Data standards and data quality
KV7001 -
Academic Language Skills for Computer and Information Sciences (Core – for International and EU students only,0 Credits)
Academic skills when studying away from your home institution can differ due to cultural and language differences in teaching and assessment practices.
This module is designed to support your transition in the use and practice of technical language and subject specific skills around assessments and teaching provision in your chosen subject area in the Department of Architecture and Built Environment.
•	Practising ‘critical reading’ and ‘critical writing’.
•	Planning and structuring academic assignments (e.g.
•	Giving discipline-related academic presentations, experiencing peer observation, and receiving formative feedback.
•	Discussing ethical issues in research, and analysing results.
•	Describing bias and limitations of research.
KV7002 -
Human-Computer Interaction for Social Change (Optional,20 Credits)
Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) is a field of study focusing on the interaction between humans and computers.
The way that social life is organised influences the computer interfaces that we design – HCI traditionally concerns itself with satisfying user needs and requirements based on our social interactions.
But, technologies also change (sometimes fundamentally) the things that we do and how we do them in the course of our everyday lives.
Sometimes this is deliberate and driven by opposing value systems, as in the case of the use of interactive technologies in supporting revolution, activism, citizen science for advocacy e.g.
for social change.
Sometimes new technologies enable and bring about new forms of living, working, or participation in civic society that disrupt existing ones, as with Uber, AMT, and social networking platforms like Twitter.
In this module you will specifically explore how to design, develop and evaluate technologies for social change, from a human-centred perspective.
Indicative topics that we will cover include (but are not limited to): Principles of Human-Centred Design for interactive technologies Understanding people, context, and social life: Theories, Social media, Instrumented environments Mock-ups, Prototyping and User Interface tools and toolkits Participatory design Designing to provoke: Adversarial design, Critical design Designing for the future: Speculative design, Design fiction Interaction qualities and experiences: Slow technology, Designing for Non-use, Counterfunctional design Evaluation techniques: Action research, Field studies, Usability labs (eye tracking) Specific Application Areas: HCI and environmental sustainability, ICT for Development (ICT4D), The future of: Health, Work, Money, Digital Civics
KV7006 -
Machine Learning (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will develop knowledge and skills that will enable you to tackle a realistic machine learning problem, using some of the principal advanced machine learning techniques.
You will also learn about recent applications of machine learning.
Furthermore, you will learn how to implement machine learning based solutions and evaluate their performance using real world examples.
The main topics covered in this module include: • Mathematical foundations of machine learning • Supervised, Unsupervised and reinforcement learning • Feature extraction, feature selection and dimensionality reduction • Classification and clustering techniques • Optimisation techniques • Ensemble techniques • Autoencoders • Deep generative models • Deep Learning • Data visualisation
KF7029 -
MSc Computer Science & Digital Technologies Project (60 Credits)
The aim of this module is to enable you to undertake a substantial academic research project at Masters level, record your progress though this, and present the results from your research in both written and oral forms.
Your research project will be a major piece of independent and original research centred at the forefront of your programme discipline within the wider sphere of computer and information sciences.
You will experience the full life cycle of a research project from initial conception and development of a research proposal, through a critical review of the literature, planning, design, implementation and analysis of your main research project, to final evaluation, reflection and dissemination.
You will be expected to conduct your research in an ethical and professional manner, and manage risk and consideration of the legal, societal and sustainability issues applicable, to this academic research project.
You will also be expected to apply your expertise, project management and practical skills within your particular domain of computer and information sciences and demonstrate critical and innovative thinking and problem solving within a research environment.
KV7007 -
Advanced Practice Semester (Core,60 Credits)
This 60 credit module is designed for all full-time postgraduate programmes within the Faculty of Engineering and Environment and provides you with the opportunity to  undertake a Live Project (including the possibility of live research project work with staff).
for one semester as part of your programme.
This experience gives you the opportunity to apply skills and knowledge acquired during the taught part of your programme and to acquire new skills and knowledge in an alternative learning environment.
Specific learning will be defined in a personal learning contract.
You will be expected to conduct a risk assessment of the project with a project plan.
You will be expected to do a critical literature review research on existing state-of-the-art techniques and provide an optimal solution to the problem based on the research as well minimise any weaknesses or adverse effects of your solution.
Your Advanced Practice semester will be assessed on a pass/fail basis and as such, it does not contribute to the classification of your degree.
However when taken and passed it is recognised both in your transcript as a 60 credit Advanced Practice Module and in your degree title.
JANUARY
2026

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-advanced-computer-science-16-months-dtfavb6:
Accredited by BCS, the Chartered Institute for IT for the purposes of partially meeting the further learning academic requirement for registration as a Chartered IT Professional.
Accredited by BCS, the Chartered Institute for IT on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
Mode of Study 16 months Full Time 2 other options available
The Department of Computer and Information Sciences is home to a variety of facilities and equipment to help enhance your studies..
Sep, Jan start

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-advanced-computer-science-dtfava6:
Designed to meet the needs of industry, MSc Advanced Computer Science will help you to build on your computing experience and develop cutting edge IT skills.
You will develop an in-depth understanding of the topics that are defining the industry today.
Gaining  advanced computer science skills in areas such as: application design, computer network security, system development, big data, and cloud computing.
You will also have the opportunity to explore computational intelligence, object-oriented design, artificial intelligence, wireless computer network technology, network security, and system development.
This advanced computer science is accredited by BCS , the Chartered Institute for IT on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer - and furthermore, for the purposes of fully meeting the further learning academic requirement for registration as a Chartered IT Professional.
This course will further enhance your already established skills in computer science, providing you with an advanced qualification that will be highly regarded by employers.
See other similar courses you may be interested in: Data Science MSc
Mode of Study 1 year Full Time
The Version 1 Scholarship
Dr Akhtar Ali
Programme Lead
The Computer Science facilities at Northumbria will provide you with a wide range of learning opportunities in a challenging, stimulating and dynamic learning environment.
During your studies, you will have the opportunity to access state of the art facilities and equipment which will encourage your individual intellectual freedom and allow your creative vision to become a reality.
Our £7m Computer and Information Sciences building was opened in 2018, especially for our computing students, and it is packed with high quality services to support your learning.
Here, you will have access to dedicated computing areas which you can use during free periods and into the evenings and weekends.
These areas are useful spaces for completing your coursework, stocked with the latest PC, Mac and Linux machines.
Plus, our award-winning Library has lots of resources and study spaces to support your learning, with professional support services for students at all levels of study.
We are proud to say that the Computer and Information Science building at Northumbria University is a sustainable ‘Smart Building’, which is able to run itself efficiently and sustainably.
This ‘Living Lab’ supports student learning and provides useful links between sustainability and technology.
Northumbria also contributes to the Institute of Coding - a £40m collaboration between 25 UK universities – delivering education to people of all ages, helping them gain the skills they need to become the next generation of digital talent.
To further enhance your career we will support you in your own professional development through the integration of employability skills and use of regular feedback throughout all stages of your studies.
We will work with you to develop your communication, time and resource management skills.
You will leave equipped with the ability to critique your own work and learning experience as well as being able to demonstrate initiative and self-reliance.
Please use the Apply Now button at the top of this page to submit your application.
Certain applications may need to be submitted via an external application system, such as UCAS, Lawcabs or DfE Apply.
The Apply Now button will redirect you to the relevant website if this is the case.
You can find further application advice, such as what to include in your application and what happens after you apply, on our Admissions Hub Admissions | Northumbria University

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/beng-hons-aerospace-satellite-engineering---uusaes1:
UCAS Code
H650
Level of Study
Mode of Study
3 years Full Time or 4 years with a placement (sandwich)/study abroad
Department
Mathematics, Physics and Electrical Engineering
Location
City Campus, Northumbria University
City
Newcastle
Start
September 2026
Fees
Fee Information
Please note: This course is subject to validation.
Our new BEng Aerospace Satellite Engineering course has been developed by world-leading academics and industry partners to equip graduates with the key skills required to work and thrive within the rapidly growing space sector.
Students will have the opportunity to build comprehensive technical and transferable skills, utilising our state-of-the-art labs.
You will also become part of our North East Skills and Technology Centre (NESST) , a £50 million investment with partners including the UK Space Agency and industry prime Lockheed Martin UK Space.
Accreditation: This course has been designed to meet the PSRB requirements of the IET.
NEXT GENERATION SPACE INNOVATION
DISCOVER MORE ABOUT SPACE AT NORTHUMBRIA →
Applicants will need A-level Mathematics and another analytical science subject (Biology, Chemistry, Computer Sciences, Physics or Technology), or recognised equivalents.
International applicants should have a minimum overall IELTS (Academic) score of 5.5 with 5.5 in each component (or an approved equivalent*).
else
This course prioritises providing students with real world
experience, within our state-of-the-art lab facilities, working side-by-side with world-leading researchers and industry experts.
Our students are at the heart of our research, meaning you will gain first-hand experience of working on industry lead projects, utilising
cutting-edge technology.
You will have the opportunity to develop your own satellite mission idea, subsystem and hardware, and then test your designs following official space agency and industrial processes.
Between your second and third year of study, you will have
the opportunity to undertake a placement or study
abroad, both of which will provide you with invaluable industrial and
international experience.
You will leave with the key skills, knowledge, network and experience,
to work or research within the space sector.
Route to Success
Our staff are industry leading experts across
a variety of space specialisms, including; satellite mission design, systems
engineering, communications systems, satellite payloads for astrophysics and
earth observation, and orbital and attitude control systems.
You will have the opportunity to learn and
work alongside these academics, gaining vital insight into their
research and industry lead projects.
Our world-leading Solar and Space Physics research group and Optical Communications research group develop novel technologies for the space sector.
Find out more about some of our
world-leading research projects:
Dr Charlotte Goetz
Assistant Professor in Space Physics
Professor Eamon Scullion
Professor of Space Physics
Professor Robert Wicks
Professor of Space Science
View All Space Staff Profiles →
Those enrolled in the programme will gain access to our North East Space Skills and Technology Centre, a state of the art £50M facility developed by Northumbria, with investment from the UK Space Agency and the space and satellite division of industry giant Lockheed Martin.
NESST will open in 2026 and house world-leading space experts and students, uniting industry with academia, to transform the UK space economy.
Students will also gain access to our Northumbria Space Technology Laboratory (NSTL) a facility which houses the key equipment required to test satellites for launch and simulate the outer space environment.
Facilities within NESST and NSTL include a state-of-the-art mission operations centre, as well as, shakers for vibration testing, X-ray dose chambers, thermal vacuum chambers, a radio ground station and an anechoic chamber for radio testing, dark rooms and electronics manufacturing.
£50M SPACE SKILLS, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CENTRE
NORTHUMBRIA SPACE TECHNOLOGY LABORATORY
All information is accurate at the time of
sharing.
Full time Courses are primarily delivered via
on-campus face to face learning but could include elements of online learning.
Most courses run as planned and as promoted on our website and via our
marketing materials, but if there are any substantial changes (as determined by
the Competition and Markets Authority) to a course or there is the potential
that course may be withdrawn, we will notify all affected applicants as soon as
possible with advice and guidance regarding their options.
It is also important
to be aware that optional modules listed on course pages may be subject to
change depending on uptake numbers each year.
Contact time is subject to increase or
decrease in line with possible restrictions imposed by the government or the
University in the interest of maintaining the health and safety and wellbeing
of students, staff, and visitors if this is deemed necessary in future.
Useful Links Find out about our distinctive approach at www.northumbria.ac.uk/exp
Admissions Terms and Conditions northumbria.ac.uk/terms Fees and Funding northumbria.ac.uk/fees Admissions Policy northumbria.ac.uk/adpolicy Admissions Complaints Policy northumbria.ac.uk/complaints

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-aerospace-satellite-engineering-dtfaes6:
1 year Full Time
Please note: This course is subject to validation.
Our new MSc
in Aerospace Satellite Engineering course has been developed by world-leading
academics and industry partners to equip postgraduates with the advanced
knowledge and skills required to work and thrive within the rapidly growing space
sector.
The programme
is designed to enable those from a broad range of backgrounds related to
science and engineering (at undergraduate level or extensive industry
experience) to take up careers in the space sector as well as across its
various supply chains.
Students
will have the opportunity to build comprehensive technical and transferable
skills, utilising our state-of-the-art labs.
You will also become part of our North East Skills and Technology Centre (NESST) , a £50 million investment with
partners including the UK Space Agency and industry prime Lockheed Martin UK
Space.
Accreditation:
This course has been designed to meet the PSRB requirements of the IET.
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree in an engineering or other related subject such as Maths, Physics, Computer Sciences.
International applicants (apart from exempt nationalities) will need an ATAS certificate to enrol on this course.
Without this certificate, a visa application will be refused.
Please visit: www.gov.uk/guidance/academic-technology-approval-scheme for more information.
*The university accepts a large number of UK and International Qualifications in place of IELTS.You can find details of acceptable tests and the required grades you will need in our English Language section.
For further admissions guidance and requirements, please visit www.northumbria.ac.uk/admissionsguidance Please review this information before submitting your application.
Full UK Fee:
                                TBC
Full International Fee:
                                TBC
This
industry-oriented and research-rich masters equips you with the up-to-date
knowledge and professional skills required to facilitate a successful career as
a satellite engineer.
The
programme is designed to meet the current and growing demand for post-graduate
students who can apprise, formulate, model, analyse and investigate the
performance of complex satellite systems, with the aid of specialist hardware
and software tools.
You will expand upon your existing pre-Masters knowledge of engineering, or related disciplines,
and gain the transferable skills and qualities necessary to help you differentiate
and stand out within a highly competitive job market.
At Northumbria we prioritise real world learning experience within
our state-of-the-art lab facilities, with a focus on working side-by-side with
industry experts, as well as our world leading team of space academics and
researchers.
You will gain first-hand experience of working on industry lead
projects, utilising cutting-edge technology.
You will also gain the opportunity
to develop your own satellite mission idea, subsystem and hardware, and then test
your designs following official space agency and industrial processes.
After completing your MSc you’ll leave with the key skills,
knowledge, network and experience, to successfully work or research within the
space sector.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/american-studies-ft-uusast1:
Please note, last entry onto this course will be September 2025.
For September 2026 entry, please visit History and American Studies BA (Hons) or English Literature and American Studies BA (Hons) .
American Studies is a vibrant interdisciplinary field of study that explores the complexities of American culture, society, and history.
It involves examining the United States from a variety of perspectives, including history, literature, politics, environment, sociology, film, music, and art, among many others.
American Studies is the perfect course if you want to learn more about the history, literature, politics, film, art and popular culture of the United States.
Whether your interests lie in the Civil War or the War on Terror, Walt Whitman or Walt Disney, this course will help you to develop your critical and imaginative skills in the context of the American experience and its global significance.
If you want to gain an in-depth understanding of US society and how it has come to exert such a powerful influence on the modern world, Northumbria is the university for you.
We have one of the largest concentrations of US specialists working outside North America.
We also offer opportunities to spend a semester or a whole year at at one of our partner institutions located throughout the US, from New York to California.
The cornerstones of American Studies are History and English, meaning our graduates have excellent employment prospects similar to students from those disciplines.
Possible careers after successful completion of the course include journalism, publishing, teaching and government service.
Discover all of our available History Courses or see similar courses: History and American Studies BA .
UCAS Code T700
Department Humanities
Discover more about what you will learn on the course, more about our academics research interests, and hear from our alumni's by watching our videos.
Northumbria historian receives prestigious research prize.
New music degree celebrates first graduating class.
Northumbria student signs major book publishing deal.
Northumbria Professor wins 'best new play' at national theatre awards.
You will be taught by specialists who will use a variety of teaching methods including lectures, tutorials and seminars.
The seminars will include discussions and small group exercises which, alongside individual tutorials, will allow extensive peer and tutor feedback to be built into your learning.
Our assessment strategy is carefully designed to support student-centred learning, based on our understanding that everyone has different needs, strengths and enthusiasms.
We use coursework to assess most modules and this can take a variety of forms, including essays of different lengths, reports, research projects, oral presentations, blogging exercises and a dissertation.
A wide range of option modules are offered on this course.
To ensure the quality of the student learning experience, some modules are subject to minimum and maximum student numbers.
Northumbria University has brought together expert academic staff to ensure that your student experience is intellectually challenging and hugely enjoyable.
Members of the team play an active role in the British Association for American Studies, which promotes and supports the study of the USA.
Professor Brian Ward serves as the Association’s vice chair while Dr Joe Street organised its 60th anniversary conference, held right here at Northumbria University.
Our commitment to teaching excellence has been recognised via the Student Union’s Student-Led Teaching Awards.
Many members of the American Studies staff were commended for their engaging teaching and overall commitment to their students’ education.
View all Staff profiles.
Brian Ward
Brian Ward is Professor in American Studies at Northumbria University and a former chair of the British Association for American Studies (2016-19).
Elsa Devienne
Patrick Andelic
Technology Enhanced Learning is embedded throughout the course with tools such as the ‘Blackboard’ eLearning Portal and electronic reading lists.
The academic team is constantly experimenting with new ways of facilitating interaction, including the use of mobile technology and social media.
The excellent digital resources for your learning include electronic versions of historical newspapers like the New York Times , Chicago Tribune and Washington Post , as well as thousands of documents relating to the American Civil War, the civil rights and black power movements, popular culture, politics, and other key themes and periods in US history, culture and politics.
Throughout your course you will have a Personal Guidance Tutor who will provide support for your personal and academic development.
Your Tutor will help you manage the transition to university smoothly and successfully, and will continue to arrange regular meetings during which you can discuss any aspect of university life.
At Northumbria, your learning will be directly impacted by the teaching team’s passion for making new discoveries and offering fresh interpretations of things we thought we already understood.
This research-rich approach is fundamental to the University’s dynamic and invigorating student experience.
Our areas of specialist interest include:
In each year of your course, we will develop your research skills as you undertake your own independent research projects under the supervision of experts in the field.
Find out about some of the key research areas in our department and discover how this research enhances your learning.
American Studies Research
As an American Studies student at Northumbria, you will develop the kinds of analytical and communication skills that are invaluable in any number of careers.
If you take up the opportunity to spend time in a partner institution in North America, you will gain a broader cultural exposure that is attractive to potential employers.
For those who stay in the UK, you will undertake a module called ‘Your Graduate Future’ which includes a work placement and which will help you to develop additional skills focused specifically on employment.
All students will be able to take advantage of the services of our Careers and Employment Service, which offers CV advice, interview preparation and portfolio development.
At the end of a thoroughly enjoyable educational experience, you will emerge from your time at university with the characteristics of a Northumbria graduate.
American Studies graduates are especially valued because of their excellent communication skills and the way they think intelligently, critically and laterally as they draw on a wide range of disciplinary perspectives.
You'll be attractive to employers in the areas of teaching, publishing, journalism, cultural administration, advertising, public relations, the civil service, heritage management, social research, non-governmental organisations, public history and the diplomatic service.
Read what our previous students have to say about their time at Northumbria.
Carys Vickers
James Haswell
Rebekah Lumsdon
View more alumni profiles →
You can boost your CV and develop your experience whilst studying at Northumbria.
Study and Travel Abroad
Earn While you Learn
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study American Studies BA (Hons).
As the degree programme includes reading and analysing literary and historical articles, students are expected to purchase or print copies of primary materials (novels, collections of poetry, plays, etc.) for their own personal use in seminars to allow for annotation and close engagement.
The combined cost of purchasing and/or printing primary texts is approximately £100 per year, though this figure depends on editions purchased and can be reduced significantly by using the library, buying second-hand, accessing e-books and locating articles electronically where possible and appropriate.
AM4001 -
Introduction to American Studies (Core,20 Credits)
This module offers a practical and historical introduction to American Studies as a distinct, multifaceted, and evolving discipline, while also allowing you to acquire and practice key learning, research, and communication skills which will be of use throughout your university career and beyond.
The module is content driven, with readings and themes drawn from across the entire range of American history, literature, politics, and popular culture, but particular emphasis will be placed on helping you to understand and master the basic tools and protocols of academic scholarship, thereby helping you to make the transition from school to university level work.
The skills which this module will help you to develop will include finding, reading and evaluating various kinds of primary and secondary sources; understanding the ways in which scholarship advances through constructive criticism and debate; correct referencing; finding an effective academic writing style; making oral presentations; and designing, researching and writing an independent research project.
EL4003 -
Representing the US: From Slavery to Terrorism (Core,20 Credits)
This module focusses on US literature, film and television and it asks you to think about US culture at large; it will introduce you to a range of significant US texts from the nineteenth century to the present.
You will make connections between diverse texts ranging from writings of slaves in the nineteenth century to fiction that responds to the trauma of the 9/11 terrorist attacks.
You will enjoy US literature, film and television across a range of periods – work from the nineteenth, twentieth and twenty-first centuries will be covered – and you will examine fiction, poetry, drama, film, and television in relation to the idea of a national literary canon and in the context of social and political change, from the Civil War to the War on Terror.
As a survey module, it encourages you to examine how key works engage with questions of identity, slavery, the American Dream, trauma, freedom, and national security.
EL4006 -
Concepts in Criticism and Culture (Core,20 Credits)
This module introduces you to literary studies at university, past and present.
You will learn how the formation of (English) Literature as a degree subject played into approaches to the study of literature from the early twentieth century, and still influence popular understandings of what it is we (lecturers and students) really do when we ‘study literature’.
Early discussions will include case studies to help explain some of the debates about the nature of literary studies.
We will then work with a text that has been labelled as ‘canonical’ (e.g.
Shakespeare’s Hamlet) to critique the concept of canonicity and ask what it is we do when we go ‘beyond the basics’ of textual engagement.
That text will then become the central point of reference across the rest of the module, as we investigate different theoretical and critical approaches.
During the module you will be asked to read a range of critical essays, discussing them in individually and in relation to each other.
The module aims to foster your skills in close textual analysis, informed by key theoretical perspectives and independent reflective practice.
EL4017 -
Gothic Stories: Nineteenth Century to the Present (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will be given the opportunity to study a range of gothic texts from the nineteenth century to the contemporary period.
This will provide you with the opportunity to explore the conventions of the genre as well as some of the ways in which gothic writing reflects and/or questions assumptions about race, gender, social class and sexuality.
You will learn about the cultural significance of many familiar gothic motifs and figures such as ghosts, uncanny doubles, haunted houses and vampires.
HI4005 -
From Sea to Shining Sea: US History from 1776 to 2008 (Core,20 Credits)
This module will provide you with an overview of the social, political and cultural development of the United States from revolutionary period to the present day.
Within a broad chronological framework, this module will introduce you to key themes within modern American history: race, gender, ethnicity, class, regionalism, the media, and foreign policy.
Topics include the American Constitution, Jacksonian America, the antebellum and Civil War period, Reconstruction, the New Deal, the Civil Rights Movement, and the Cold War.
You will have the opportunity to consider the major controversies in American history, key concepts, and the nation’s transformation from a colony to a superpower.
HI4007 -
Making History (Core,20 Credits)
History is not only characterised by knowledge and understanding of past developments, but also by a broad range of skills and methods that are directly applicable to academic research.
Within this wider context, this module will give you a firm grounding in the skills and methods needed for the study of history, introducing you to a range of source materials from a broad chronological spectrum.
In so doing, the module explores traditions in criticism and explains the ways in which sources can be read and utilised.
The module is structured along five ‘core skills’ blocks (Writing History, Handling Sources, Approaches to History, Researching & Interpreting History, and Feedback and Careers) which progress logically from each other and provide students with ample opportunities to engage with how historians make history.
The first block introduces you to how to study and write history through an analysis of the historian’s key skills.
The block also develops skills in three areas: (1) writing history; (2) reading history (3) researching history.
The second block examines key approaches to historical sources.
In addition to allowing you to demonstrate the skills gained in block one, the block concentrates on how to find primary sources, how to read them, and how to deploy them in written work.
Block three considers key conceptual approaches to the past, including race, class and gender.
Block four draws the skills you have learnt in a concentrated study of a single secondary source book.
The final block introduces you to careers in and beyond History, and asks you to reflect on your progress over the year.
You will develop a critical capacity to scrutinize sources and interpretations of the past.
YC5001 -
Academic Language Skills for Humanities and Social Sciences (Core – for International and EU students only,0 Credits)
AD5011 -
Humanities Study Abroad (60 credit) (Optional,60 Credits)
The Study Abroad module is a semester based 60 credit module which is available on degree courses which facilitate study abroad within the programme.
This gives you access to modules from your discipline taught in a different learning culture and so broadens your overall experience of learning.
The course of study abroad will be constructed to meet the learning outcomes for the programme for the semester in question, dependent on suitable modules from the partner and will be recorded for an individual student on the learning agreement signed by the host University, the student, and the home University (Northumbria).
The module will be assessed by conversion of graded marks from the host University and, where appropriate, complementary activities as agreed between the student and module tutor.
Learning outcomes on the year-long modules on which the student is unable to attend the home institution must be met at the host institution, and marks from the host are incorporated into the module as part of the overall assessment.
AM5002 -
American Studies Extended Essay (Core,20 Credits)
The American Studies Extended Essay is designed as an opportunity for you to apply and build on the skills you have acquired in Level Four core modules and prepare yourself for the demands of the American Studies Dissertation in Level Six.
It is an exercise in independent research and is intended to be a piece of work that utilises an interdisciplinary approach to a selection of primary and secondary sources.
Extended Essay topics will be developed in conjunction with an appropriate subject specialist.
EL5006 -
Poetry: Tradition and Experiment (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will focus on key moments in the development of poetic theory and practice, from the early modern period to the present day.
In this module you will examine poems as sites at which tradition and experiment collide and intertwine.
Through the close analysis of a small number of individual poems by ground-breaking poets, you will develop your understanding of the dynamic relationship between poetic form and content.
In doing so, you will reflect upon and interrogate the complex ways in which poetic texts engage with, and intervene in, broader cultural debates about nation, class, race, and gender.
You will consider how the evolution of poetry and poetics coalesces with questions of aesthetics and ideology.
EL5009 -
Literature and Adaptation (Optional,20 Credits)
This module explores adaptations of literary texts in modern culture.
It focuses on the ways in which classic texts are retold and appropriated in a variety of popular genres, media, and formats.
The module thus builds on the knowledge and skills developed at Level 4, particularly those concerning the notion of canonicity and the relations between ‘high’ and ‘low’ culture.
The module introduces you to the current theories of adaptation and teaches you the knowledge and skills necessary for critical analysis of adaptations.
It also provides you with the terminology and skills needed for the study of film and other media, as well as non-canonical (popular) literary genres.
HI5004 -
Affluence and Anxiety: The US from 1920 to 1960 (Optional,20 Credits)
Historians and other researchers have often used the terms of ‘affluence’ and ‘anxiety’ to describe US history and culture from 1920 to 1960.
According to a traditional narrative, Americans enjoyed unprecedented ‘affluence’ in the 1920s and in the postwar period, while experiencing great ‘anxiety’ in the context of the Cold War.
While useful, these narratives do not fully account for the complexity of this period.
In this module, we will ask questions such as: Who took advantage of affluence (pre- and post-WW2)?
Who was excluded from it and how?
How did American conceptions of affluence fundamentally shape our current climate crisis?
Beyond Cold War anxieties, what were Americans, in their diversity, worried about?
How did foreign policy anxieties reveal themselves at home?
And how did racial and gender anxieties shape US politics and culture?
With these questions in mind, we will assess and analyse major developments and events of the period, including, but not limited to: the roaring 1920s, the Great Depression, the Dust Bowl, the New Deal, World War II, the Cold War, the postwar “economic miracle,” the suburban boom, and the beginnings of the Civil Rights Movement.
By narrowing our focus on four crucial decades of the 20th century, we will be able to look at these events from various angles.
In accordance with recent developments in the field, we will pay particular attention to historiographical interpretations that emphasize race, gender, sexuality, and class, as well as the environment.
This will mean, for instance, that you will not only learn about the anti-communist ‘Red Scare’ of the 1950s, but also about the lesser known ‘Lavender Scare’ that targeted gay men and women working for the US government.
Similarly, we will study Rosa Parks’ efforts to desegregate the buses in 1950s Birmingham, but we will also pay attention to ordinary actors of the Civil Rights Movement, such as the African-American youths who desegregated swimming pools and amusement parks.
Primary and secondary source readings, along with classroom activities, will help you to critically engage this key era of American development and develop the interpretive skills of a historian.
HI5005 -
America in the 1960s (Core,20 Credits)
This module offers you the opportunity to study the domestic social, cultural, political, and economic history of the United States during the “long 1960s” (roughly 1956-1974).
Interdisciplinary in approach the module allows you to examine a range of secondary and primary sources – including television, literature, music, film and visual culture – that illuminate the history and culture of the US during this period.
The module also encourages you to consider the perils and advantages of dealing with the 1960s as a discrete historical period, involves you in some of the most important scholarly debates in the field, and asks you to consider how the decade has been remembered and misremembered in popular consciousness by exploring later cultural representations and political uses of the 1960s.
Key topics include the Cold War and Vietnam; consumerism; the civil rights and black power movements; national and local politics; science, technology and the environment; youth culture; gender and sexuality; identity politics; regionalism; the New Left and the Counterculture; conservatism and the New Right; mass media and popular music.
HI5006 -
Slavery, Sectionalism and Manifest Destiny (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will assess the importance of slavery and Manifest Destiny in the rise of American sectionalism from the end of the American War of Independence (1783) to 1850.
This sectionalism created a political, social, and cultural atmosphere in the US which laid the basis for the crises of the 1850s and the Civil War.
Slavery was the major issue which the Founders left unsolved in the aftermath of independence from Great Britain.
As a result, it continued to divide the United States through the early republic and antebellum periods.
Manifest Destiny was supposed to bring the sections together by uniting them in a quest to expand the United States westward.
Ironically, Manifest Destiny exasperated the slavery issue and divisions between the North and the South.
You will also study historiography of this period throughout the semester and you will be expected to become familiar with it.
Students are expected to study relevant primary documents.
This module will build specifically on the basic information learned in the early sections of the level-4 From Sea to Shining Sea.
It will equip you to think critically about academic literature, primary sources, and historical interpretation.
HI5009 -
Your Graduate Future (Optional,20 Credits)
This module aims to ensure that you will be equipped with employability-related skills appropriate to graduates of History and associated degrees.
The module adapts to your interests, whether you choose to pursue postgraduate study, enter the job market seeking graduate level employment, or establish your own enterprise.
One of the purposes of Your Graduate Future is to raise your awareness of the wide range of possibilities, and to equip you with the knowledge, the skills and the experiences that may enable you to respond effectively to future opportunities.
This module now includes a “Standard Pathway” and a “Law Pathway”, delivered in collaboration with Northumbria School of Law.
For the Standard Pathway, in semester 1 you will attend lectures and participate in seminars that will present the intricacies of contemporary job seeking in different sectors.
These will include guest lectures.
You will then work with a group of your peers on an outward-looking project that will enable you to display your specific skills, to establish and nurture internal and external contacts, and to express your interests in a public outcome of your choice.
In semester 2, you will develop your CV and further explore your evolving skillsets by means of engaging on your choice of work experience, volunteering, enterprise planning or a placement abroad.
These will take the shape of supported independent activities.
Assessment consists of a group project with a public outcome, an individual report reflecting on the scholarly basis of your project and your assessment of the process, and a placement report (at the end of semester 2).
Students in the Law Pathway will also attend the lectures, and will follow a bespoke schedule of workshops, seminars, a field visit to The National Archives in London including archival training and a private tour of the archives.
They will also undergo two specialised training sessions in Newcastle.
Students in both pathways will follow the same assessment pattern, but those in the Law Pathway will work alongside students from the Law School to investigate a historical legal case using original archival material from The National Archives and Tyne & Wear Archives & Museums, and their group project will see them produce public facing history outputs for these external clients, including exhibitions, website blogs, and contributions to their official social media channels.
In Semester 2, the ‘Placement’ element will work with Law students to design and stage a reconstruction of the trial itself.
HI5052 -
History/Film: Using Popular Film as Historical Evidence (Optional,20 Credits)
We know you like films, and we know that you like using them as historical evidence.
But are you aware that you need a very particular skill set in order to analyse and write about films properly?
If you weren’t but are interested in finding out more, and particularly if you are thinking of using film in your final-year dissertation, then this is the module for you.
This team-taught module invites you to consider a variety of popular film genres, with a specific view towards considering their value to the historian, both as sources about the past AND sources from the past.
Key genres that we’ll examine include documentaries, historical dramas, biopics, science fiction, and more.
The module tutors will provide you with leading-edge theoretical and methodological approaches through which you will learn how to analyse cinema as a historian.
Learning about the ways in which we might dissect a film will provide you with a range of tools that you can bring to bear on the world around you.
For example, you will be able to demonstrate how popular film reflects and attempts to shape popular opinion about key political issues of the time, and how the semiotics of film enable us to move beyond simply responding to film’s plot or its cast.
As this suggests, the module requires you to develop additional analytic skills to those that you would wield when analysing textual documents.
It will enable you to move beyond issues pertaining to a film’s factual accuracy (or lack thereof) to consider its emotional truths, its ideological standpoints, the ways in which the filmmakers attempt to convey and disguise political messages, and the way in which audiences are able to absorb, reject, or transform these messages as they see fit.
Naturally, it will encourage you to consider the complicated relationship between the past, film, history, Film Studies, and the discipline of History itself.
It might even do more…
HI5054 -
Field Notes: Politics and Policy Making in Place (Optional,20 Credits)
“Field Notes” will take you out of the classroom to immerse you in the major issues facing the contemporary world.
The North East is a region alive with controversy and contested spaces which speak to larger challenges facing the nation and the global community in the 21st century.
Landscapes throughout the region, from the coast to the Northumberland National Park, Newcastle city centre to the banks of the River Tyne, are inscribed with complex histories which intersect with, and inform, ongoing battles over how to manage, protect, and develop these spaces for a future informed by severe social and economic challenges and the upheaval caused by climate change.
You will be taken to four different local sites that are at the centre of these larger environmental-social-political and economic battles and learn how to unravel the complex dynamics that underpin these spaces (from the choices made by policy makers at the local, national, and global level, to the role of communities, activist groups, and other stakeholders in shaping these places).
You will be asked to complete a range of assessments from a group presentation to a public poster and site report responding to these field trips.
Through the module, therefore, you will be taught how to understand the dynamics of place and policy making and most importantly how to apply historical research to contemporary social issues that impact our world today.
HI5056 -
Al-Andalus to America: Spain and the New World (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will acquire in-depth knowledge about the Spanish late medieval period, with all of its captivating myths and influential realities.
You will become critically familiar with exciting passages of universal history, including the end of the Reconquest (with the rise of the Spanish Inquisition and the expulsion of Jews and Muslims), the discovery of America, often referred to as an “encounter” of civilisations, and the development of the modern world from an Iberian perspective.
You will explore the concepts of religious persecution and clash of civilisations, establishing the links between the political role of the Catholic Church and the development of a “new” continent in America from 1492.
Moreover, you will gain an expert understanding of coexistence and conflict between Muslims, Jews and Christians in Spain, including the transformational cultural legacies that Europe and the West owe to Al-Andalus and Sefarad (Muslim and Jewish Spain).
You will also gain a nuanced understanding of imperial dynamics between indigenous civilisations, including the Inca and the Azteca, and European settlers in the New World.
You will learn about Spain’s Christian and Imperial mandates by using a wide range of translated primary sources, which will include, amongst many others, the Lead Books of Granada, Hernán Cortés’s Letters from Mexico, and Álvar Núnez’s account of his ten years journey from Florida to California, Castaways.
You will also be able to evaluate the role of propaganda, from a comparative history perspective, when assessing the key events that took place before and after 1492, and how these shaped the course of modern history.
IR5010 -
Foreign Policy Analysis (Optional,20 Credits)
You will learn about the most significant issues and challenges of our times in the domain of foreign policy.
While grounded in IR theory, you will be introduced to foreign policy analysis (FPA)-specific frameworks and levels of analysis such as to systems of governance, decision making structures and models, leadership analysis, the role of the media, public opinion and special interest groups.
Empirically, you will learn about the foreign policy of key actors in the international system towards a region or set of issues such as, for example, US and China foreign policy.
ML5001 -
Unilang - Languages for all - Level 5 Placeholder (Optional,20 Credits)
The 20-credit yearlong Unilang modules (stages 1 – 5 depending on language) aim to encourage a positive attitude to language learning and to develop and practise the four language skills of speaking, listening, reading and writing introducing the basic/increasingly complex  grammatical structures and vocabulary of the spoken and written language (depending on stage) and developing your ability to respond appropriately in the foreign language in spoken and written form in simple and increasingly complex everyday situations.
These modules also introduce you to the country and the culture of the country.
In doing this, Unilang modules are intended to encourage and support international mobility; to enhance employability at home and abroad; to improve communication skills in the foreign language as well as English; to improve cultural awareness and, at the higher stages, to encourage access to foreign sources.
MP5023 -
Media Industries (Optional,20 Credits)
You will examine mass communications in the context of contemporary practices, trends, developments and trajectories that have developed and are developing within contemporary mass communication industries.
The module takes a distinctive pedagogic approach in that the core of the module consists of three team-taught and research-led ‘symposiums’ that address a specific debate, development or controversy within the field of mass communication industries (broadcast, digital, advertising) and enable you to acquire a critical, multi-perspective, and evaluative grounding in the issues shaping such industries.
Complementing and reinforcing the Media staff-led symposiums will be a series of lectures provided by industry guest speakers (from television, radio, advertising and digital/web companies) that will provide practical and state-of-the-art insights into key issues underpinning mass communication operations and developments.
Finally, two workshop sessions will be based upon you undertaking personal research into salient issues (the front-facing components of Apple stores, the ‘brand’ and customer typology) and research-informed reflexive approaches to social networking technologies.
MP5036 -
Researching Audiences (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will introduce you to several key aspects of media audience studies.
Firstly, you will be introduced to the main recent traditions for studying media audiences, including the European cultural studies approach, the American mass communications approach, the reception studies tradition, and the interdisciplinary field of fan studies.
These traditions all focus on the contexts that shape how audiences engage with and respond to different media and cultural products.
Additionally, you will gain experience in reading and evaluating original audience and reception research.
This will involve reading actual empirical work in depth to understand the research process and to differentiate between strong and weak research.
Finally, the module will provide you with a unique opportunity to conduct your own small-scale audience research.
Working in a small group, you will design, conduct, and compare different methods for understanding audience responses.
This experience will help you to understand the challenges and processes involved in audience research.
MU5015 -
Sampling, Streaming, Sharing: Music and Musicology in the Digital Age (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will introduce you to the implications of the ‘digital turn’ in music composition/performance/production, music scholarship and music education.
Throughout the module, we will ask how digital technologies have reshaped modern understandings of and approaches to music as both an art and an object of study.
In weekly workshops, you will learn how to analyse and evaluate a range of digital music and digital musicology projects, which may include (but will not be limited to) examples of computer music and digital scenography in opera, digital critical editions of music, music mapping projects, reconstructions of lost historical soundscapes, and digital archives/collections relating to music.
In weekly seminars, we will use assigned scholarly readings as springboards for reflecting critically on some of the social, cultural and aesthetic changes brought about by digital technologies in people’s everyday engagement with music across the world.
Seminar topics will include the rise of CDs and DVDs, the use of streaming platforms such as YouTube and Spotify, DIY music practices, music creativity in the age of AI, digital intellectual property rights, and using digital tools for music teaching.
AD5009 -
Humanities Work Placement Year (Optional,120 Credits)
The Work Placement Year module is a 120 credit year-long module available on degree courses which include a work placement year, taken as an additional year of study at level 5 and before level 6 (the length of the placement(s) will be determined by your programme but it can be no less than 30 weeks.
You will undertake a guided work placement at a host organisation.
This is a Pass/Fail module and so does not contribute to classification.
When taken and passed, however, the Placement Year is recognised in your transcript as a 120 credit Work Placement Module and on your degree certificate in the format – “Degree title (with Work Placement Year)”.
The learning and teaching on your placement will be recorded in the work placement agreement signed by the placement provider, the student, and the University.
Note: Subject to placement clearance; this is a competitive process and a place on the module cannot be guaranteed.
AD5010 -
Humanities Study Abroad Year (Optional,120 Credits)
The Study Abroad Year module is a full year 120 credit module which is available on degree courses which include a study abroad year which is taken as an additional year of study at level 5 and before level 6.
The course of study abroad will be dependent on the partner and will be recorded for an individual student on the learning agreement signed by the host University, the student, and the home University (Northumbria).
Your study abroad year will be assessed on a pass/fail basis.
It will not count towards your final degree classification but, if you pass, it is recognised in your transcript as a 120 credit Study Abroad Module and on your degree certificate in the format – “Degree title (with Study Abroad Year)”.
AM6001 -
The American Studies dissertation is the most substantial piece of work you will produce during your undergraduate career.
It will enable you to apply the skills you acquired at earlier levels to a discrete body of primary sources related to an identifiable area of scholarly enquiry.
Dissertation topics will normally be chosen from an area you have studied before or are studying at Level 6 and be supervised by an appropriate tutor.
Whereas the American Studies Extended Essay at Level 5 is explicitly interdisciplinary, Dissertations may utilise a single-disciplinary approach to the chosen subject, in line with each student’s developing interests and disciplinary inclinations.
AM6005 -
Red, White and Green: The American Environment Through Time (Core,20 Credits)
The US is a paradox when it comes to nature: it is both the country that invented the national park concept and the biggest carbon dioxide emitter historically; it was the first country to celebrate Earth Day in 1970, but it is also where the hyper consumerist lifestyle first emerged; it is the birthplace of some of the oldest and most important environmental NGOs and of climate denial.
How can we make sense of the US and its relationship to nature?
Are Americans doomed to destroy the natural wonders of their nation?
Can we envision a red, white and green nation that would put science and technology at the service of sustainability and environmental justice?
The module will answer these questions by examining the US’ complicated relationship to nature chronologically.
In doing so, we will re-examine and challenge conventional narratives of US history by integrating the role of nature as a historical actor in its own right.
Examples of themes covered include: nature and conquest; Native American environments; nature and technology; the wilderness myth; animals in US history; environmental disasters; urban nature; the rise of environmentalism; environmental justice and environmental racism; waste and pollution; toxicities, etc.
The module will approach these themes using the tools of the environmental humanities.
Combining historical, visual and literary analysis with insights from ecology and other ‘hard’ sciences, we will achieve a thorough understanding of environmental phenomena in their full complexity.
EL6004 -
Vamps and Virgins: Gothic Sexualities (Optional,20 Credits)
From Samuel Taylor Coleridge’s Christabel (1816) to Alan Ball’s True Blood (2008-), this module invites you to explore the dark, shadowy world of the Gothic in relation to a diverse range of literary texts and modern media.
Combining the study of familiar canonical fictions with new and challenging material, we will train our focus on the enigmatic figure of the vampire, examining its various transitions and developments through the lens of critical and cultural theory.
Through an analysis of the Gothic, the module aims to develop your critical thinking, as well as your existing knowledge of literature, film, and television dating from 1816 to the present day.
In doing so, it will encourage you to reflect on and interrogate the complex ways in which Gothic texts engage with, and intervene in, broader cultural debates about gender and sexuality.
EL6018 -
The Black Atlantic: Literature, Slavery and Race (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will introduce you to a range of texts which have been created out of, or about, the experience of African peoples in the diaspora from the seventeenth century to the present.
It will encourage you to relate your understanding of the texts to the cultural and historical background from which they developed.
Following on from level four core modules this module will develop your understanding of the concept of the ‘Atlantic World’ and theories of local, national and global cultures as well as theories of race and postcolonial theory.
You will be encouraged to recognise the activity of the slave trade as the beginning point of the Atlantic World as an imagined space that challenges national and chronological boundaries and speaks of the powerful and enduring legacies of slavery.
EL6042 -
Postwar US Writing (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will enhance your understanding of postwar American literary culture in its broader social, political, and economic contexts.
Mid-century America was a time of profound contradictions: while US citizens lived under the shadow the bomb, many experienced unprecedented economic prosperity and access to new material comforts.
We will explore how national paranoia about the spread of communism and the nuclear arms race sat alongside – and fed into – the postwar image of the American ‘good life’, an image of suburban conformity underpinned by the growth of advertising and consumer culture.
We will consider how postwar fiction and poetry challenges this demand for conformity in both content and form: through its complex representations of the American cold war experience and its innovative narrative and poetic strategies.
The texts on this module offer insights into postwar attitudes towards a diverse range of topics, including national and international politics, work, leisure, and domesticity, gender and sexuality, and race and ethnicity.
EL6047 -
Twenty First Century Literature: Writing in the Present (Optional,20 Credits)
From Margaret Atwood’s The Handmaid’s Tale (1985) and its popular television adaptation (2017) to Yorgos Lanthimos’ film The Lobster (2015), this module invites you to explore a wide and diverse range of novels, short stories and other media in order to promote and analyse the study of contemporary theoretical debates on gender, love, the body and sexuality.
Through the theoretical lens of feminism, psychoanalysis, queer theory and postmodernism, the module aims to develop your critical thinking and your existing knowledge of literature, film and television, from 1985 to the present day.
It will encourage you to explore the complex issues raised by diverse critical theory and close analysis of a range of late twentieth and twenty-first century literature, film and television adaptation.
By doing so, you will reflect on the ways that twenty-first literature and other media engages with, interrogates and often offers alternative narratives on present debates about gender, love, the body and sexuality.
HI6004 -
The African American Freedom Struggle Since 1945 (Optional,20 Credits)
In this seminar-based module you will study the roots, trajectory, and legacies of the African American Freedom Struggle since 1945.
Although the primary focus will be on the movement for racial justice in the US South between roughly 1954 and 1968, that history will be placed in longer chronological and broader national and international contexts.
More specifically you will study the grass-roots activities of African Americans engaged in various forms of resistance and protest alongside the histories of the major civil rights groups – the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC), the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee (SNCC), the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE).
You will interrogate their tactics, examine their often fraught relationships with each other, and assess their achievements and failures in the face of widespread resistance to racial change.
You will examine the contributions of the extraordinary ordinary people at the heart of the struggle, as well as those of nationally prominent leaders such as Martin Luther King.
In this module you will also analyse the relationship between the civil rights movement and the federal government, address the role of the media and popular culture in shaping both the history and popular understandings of the post-war Freedom Struggle, and examine the international coordinates and impact of the struggles.
HI6006 -
The Black Panther Party (Optional,20 Credits)
The module examines the history and significance of the Black Panther Party (BPP), a radical protest group formed in Oakland, California in 1966.
It locates the BPP within its intellectual, political, geographical, and social context, giving students the opportunity to engage with important texts that influenced the BPP while also considering the BPP’s contribution to ideas about political struggle.
The module details the history of the BPP from formation until its decline into irrelevance in the late 1970s, spending considerable time focusing on key individuals such as Huey P.
Newton and Eldridge Cleaver, the FBI repression which resulted in the deaths of numerous BPP members, gender relations in the Party, and the BPP’s political and intellectual development.
Students may start the module thinking that the BPP simply represented a violent response to African American oppression dominated by guns, leather jackets and Afro haircuts but they will end the module with a nuanced understanding of the profound contribution of the BPP to American history.
HI6040 -
Nicaragua in Revolution, 1979-1990 (Optional,20 Credits)
In July 1979 a broad-based opposition movement led by a small group of young guerrillas - the ‘Sandinistas’ - overthrew the Somoza dictatorship which had ruled Nicaragua for 43 years.
The euphoria of triumph quickly soured, as the new Sandinista government faced division at home and aggression from overseas, in the form of a US-funded proxy conflict, known as the ‘Contra War’.
In this module, you                             will learn how ordinary Nicaraguans experienced the revolutionary decade by working with a wide range of sources, including memoirs, poetry, and murals.
You will draw on testimonios and oral histories to critically evaluate the impact of the revolution’s programmes in education, agrarian reform, and women’s rights; and you will explore the Contra War in the context of the wider Cold War struggle between the Soviet Union and the United States.
Finally, you will use your detailed knowledge of the period to assess the relative importance of a number of factors, including US aggression and Sandinista failings, which together caused the eventual defeat of the revolution.
HI6043 -
Creatures of Empire: an Animal History of British Colonialism (Optional,20 Credits)
In every empire, including the British case, non-human animals have been a crucial presence.
Domesticated creatures, such as cows, pigs and sheep, accompanied European colonisers and assisted in the – often violent – processes that led to land clearances, changed environments, indigenous dispossession, and the spread of European settlement.
This module seeks to give you a sense of the complicated and contested place of animals in empire.
For some human colonisers, the hunting, killing, stuffing and exhibition of wild animals symbolised the European’s command of nature, and helped justify the whole imperial endeavour.
But animals could also make trouble for empires: efforts to reproduce prized species and breeds did not always work; many animals spread disease; the growth of pest populations was a constant source of anxiety; and imported species could bring environmental changes that endangered both indigenous and European settlement.
This module considers this complicated interweaving of human and non-human histories in the British empire story, from the early modern settlements of seventeenth-century New England to the colonies of indirect rule in twentieth-century Africa.
The first week will introduce you to the methodologies of animal history, and what an animal history of empire requires and might reveal.
Thereafter, each week considers a species and a regional case study (e.g., rabbits/Australia; cows/southern Africa; tigers/British India).
This simple structure introduces learners to themes as various as imperial masculinity and violence (hunting), ecological and social crises (epizootics), colonial community and family life (pet ownership), colonial urban history (pest control), imperial cultures in the metropole (taxidermy) and colonial national identity (animals as symbols).
Importantly, the module is not exclusively structured around British and European viewpoints and actions: episodes such as the Xhosa cattle killing in 1850s southern Africa, to take one example, allows for a consideration of the differences and similarities in European and indigenous human-animal relationships.
You will learn about the relationship between empire, ecological degradation, and conservation through key themes such as ‘ecological imperialism’, ‘green imperialism’ and ‘animal agency’.
Finally, this module will help you to historically contextualise current debates about human-animal relationships and the imperial roots of our ecological crisis; you may also recognise that the British empire experience provides examples and lessons that might help us rethink contemporary anthropocentric attitudes, and to develop healthier alternatives.
HI6047 -
Dissertation with Public History (Optional,40 Credits)
In this module, you will be provided with the skills to complete a written dissertation and a public-facing output on a topic that you will agree with your supervisors.
The dissertation with public history represents an opportunity to apply the skills you have acquired at earlier levels, as well as a chance to develop new skills, both theoretical and practical, associated with public history.
In Semester One you will produce the written piece of work.
This written piece, which can take the form of a ‘short dissertation’ or ‘extended essay’, may be an analysis of a discrete body of primary sources, a discussion of historiographical controversy, or an intervention in a current debate about the public understanding of the past.
In Semester Two you will work with your supervisors to produce a public output (the ‘knowledge exchange’ component), such as a digital exhibition or public history podcast, based on your research for the short dissertation/extended essay.
The knowledge exchange aspect may include work with an external partner.
The ‘Dissertation with public history’ is an exercise in research and public engagement and is intended to develop your research and communication skills, as well as your ability to work independently.
Topics will be supervised by two appropriate tutors, one with subject-specific knowledge, the second with knowledge exchange experience.
HI6048 -
From the Campus to the Streets: Student Activism and Youth Movements since 1900 (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module, we will consider how young people have responded to, and in some cases shaped, major episodes and developments in modern and contemporary history.
In examining youth action, we will cover a variety of movements and campaigns.
For example, we will discuss the role of communist and fascist youth organisations in the 1920s and 1930s as well as the involvement of students in anti-colonial and anti-racist struggles.
Moreover, we will investigate youth politics in the Cold War, the impact of student protests in the 1960s as well as young people’s efforts to address issues such as gender equality or the fate of the environment.
The scope of the module is international, with examples that cover cases from Europe (France, Germany, Russia), Africa (Ghana, South Africa), Asia (China, Japan) and the Americas (Brazil, Mexico, the United States).
We will pay particular attention to global aspirations and connections, as we will trace how young activists sought to build ties across national borders.
Such efforts will also allow us to consider how various movements imagined and pursued the quest for a different world and a better future.
IR6005 -
Media Power and Propaganda (Optional,20 Credits)
Most people find out about politics, and what is going on in the wider world, through the media.
It is therefore critical to understand how the media functions in contemporary society.
This module focuses upon the debate about the role of the media in liberal democracies: is it an independent check on the exercise of power or an instrument by which the powerful manipulate the masses?
What is the impact of the media upon individuals: does it inform us or brainwash us?
How are the Internet and other new technologies affecting individual’s ability to access alternative sources of information to the established media?
What implications do these new media have for states that seek to direct, if not control, the public’s access to information?
What role, if any, should propaganda play in a liberal democracy?
Using concepts, such as power, and theories of media effects, media performance and interpersonal communication, students will be encouraged to engage with these fundamental questions.
IR6007 -
Politics of Oil and Global Warming (Optional,20 Credits)
Two of the most important problems facing humanity are climate change and energy security.
In terms of solutions, a number of very different approaches have been suggested that range from the technological to the radical; how we address and solve these problems is therefore political.
This module highlights how energy and resource intensive the average Western way of life is and what this means for climate change and energy security; explores the debate about peak oil (i.e.
the point at which cheap and easily accessible oil starts to run out) and considers its political implications; investigates how Western foreign policy has been influenced by the desire to access, if not control, energy sources (e.g.
Middle Eastern oil); evaluates the debate about climate change and how politicians have, and could, respond; and assesses the debate about energy policy and how politicians have, and could, respond to the twin demands of tackling global warming while ‘keeping the lights on’.
MI6005 -
Popular Music on Film and Television (Optional,20 Credits)
This module is concerned with popular music culture and its relationship to film, an area much neglected in academic film studies, television studies and popular music studies.
As such, it seeks to address this absence by looking at a number of key junctures where popular music culture, the cinema and television inter-relate, exploring debates about gender representation, authorship, genre and music in performance, as well as how the films studied relate to context of their production and reception.
The module, therefore, covers topics such as the following in a largely chronological fashion.
An indicative syllabus is as follows: 1.
Early moments: The significance of the early Elvis Films: King Creole 2.
Punk rock on film: The Great Rock n’ Roll Swindle 3.
The revisionist musical: Von Trier, Lhurmann et al 4.
Popular Music and national identity: The Commitments 5.
Popular Music and ‘Race’ representation: 8 Mile 6.
Gender play: Velvet Goldmine, In Bed with Madonna 7.
The popular music / rock documentary 8.
Dance and the male body: Saturday Night Fever 9.
The concert film" from Wadleigh's Woodstock to Godard's One plus One.
Critical approaches to music video: Corbijn, Cunningham et al.
11.
Nostalgia and the popular musical biopic: Control
MI6007 -
Cult Film and Television (Optional,20 Credits)
You will learn to understand how the term ‘cult’ has been applied to film and television programmes in different ways, and how the concept has developed across history.
The module will enable you to critically examine the ways that cult has been theorised both in relation to films and television programmes, and some of the key differences between cult television and cult film.
You will understand how cult can be applied to both films, the reception of films, as well as how it has increasingly infiltrated marketing discourses.
Case studies on the module include midnight movies, authorship and cult, fandom, telefantasy, censorship and controversy, exploitation cinema and global cult cinema.
MI6010 -
Adaptations on Film and TV (Optional,20 Credits)
In ‘Adaptations on Film and TV’ you will examine the practical and theoretical debates around the translation of a variety of texts into films and television programmes.
A broad-range of case studies is covered, from adaptations of ‘high art’ such as Shakespeare and literary fiction, to the conversion of popular fiction, comic-books and supposedly ‘unfilmable’ sources.
As well as considering issues of authorship and originality, you will consider the complex relationship between film, television and other media forms, from music and video-gaming to theme-park rides.
Films and programmes under discussion are likely to include examples such as Adaptation, William Shakespeare’s Romeo + Juliet, Sherlock, Doom, The Walking Dead, Band of Brothers, Star Trek amongst others.
MI6022 -
The Modern Horror Film (Optional,20 Credits)
The modern period in horror cinema is generally seen as beginning in 1968 with the release of Night of the Living Dead.
This module explores the wide range of horror films produced since that date, primarily in the US but also considering the development and influence of horror film production in Italy, Japan and the UK.
Through this exploration, the module will identify key themes, formats and cycles, and engages with the relation of the horror genre to changes in the film industry and to broader social and historical change.
It also explores the aesthetic innovations and challenges offered by a range of forms of horror, and the creative ways in which the genre has experimented with film form and style.
In taking the module, you will acquire an understanding of the critical and cultural issues raised by this important area of American and global culture and you will develop your own critical and analytic insights into a range of iconic horror films produced between 1968 and the present.
MP6029 -
Cinema and Society (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module, you will critically examine the relationship between US filmic institutions (films and industrial bodies – hereafter “cinema”) and different social contexts, including, for example: changes to the Hollywood Studio System (and the birthing of the “New Hollywood”), cinema’s responses to war and global trauma, and cinema’s engagement with issues surrounding race, gender and sexuality.
Taught through lectures, demonstrations (film screenings) and student-led seminars, the course explores many of the ways cinema has engaged with key societal concerns.
You will be required to read and reflect on specific theoretical and empirical academic work by leading scholars and commentators and, using your analytical and interpretive skills, relate this work to the issues raised in class and by the accompanying film screenings.
The module is assessed by a written essay or equivalent video essay, which is designed to test your knowledge of film history and industry (one of the world's major mass communications industries), to evidence a sophisticated understanding of the issues under scrutiny,  and your ability to work to a deadline.
Ultimately, the module asks you to consider: What is the significance of studying cinema as a mass communications industry, an outlet for personal expression, and as a political tool?
What can cinema tells us about history?
What can cinema tell us about ourselves?
YC6001 -
Academic Language Skills for Humanities & Social Sciences (Core – for International and EU students only,0 Credits)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/applied-linguistics-for-tesol-dtfalt6:
This course is suitable for individuals at the start of their careers as English Language teachers, and also for more experienced teachers who are looking to develop further professionally.
Offering a comprehensive overview and critique of the key concepts, theories, and perspectives that underpin language teaching, it provides an opportunity for course participants to reflect on the relationship between these ideas and language teaching in their own professional context.
The course thus focuses on both classroom practice and on broader aspects of the profession such as syllabus and materials design, programme development, and teacher education.
You will acquire the knowledge and skills required to reflect critically both upon your own language teaching practice and the wider TESOL profession.
Whichever pathway you follow, you will develop a critical professional perspective towards TESOL, drawing on a range of theoretical frameworks in Applied Linguistics to better understand the global, cultural, political and educational contexts in which English is taught.
The Professor Richard Terry Memorial Scholarship
Our MA combines exciting subject-specific content with an emphasis on development of independent analytical and research skills, supported by knowledgeable, research-active staff.
Our learning and teaching strategy is designed to deliver a stimulating and student-centred environment through a combination of lectures, seminars, group workshops and individual tutorials.
The range of subject-specific modules has been developed to help you acquire the core skills appropriate to the study of TESOL and Applied Linguistics whilst on the programme, and the development of your practical and professional knowledge which will inform your subsequent teaching career.
The course culminates in a dissertation of approximately 15,000 words.
Our team offers a progressively challenging and rewarding experience, integrating the teaching of fundamental issues in Applied Linguistics and TESOL with the up-to-date findings of research conducted by the teaching team.
You will benefit from the vast research experience of the teaching team.
While much of our current research relates to the teaching and learning of language, we also explore a broader range of applied linguistic topics including: discourse analysis and representations of culture; the spread of English and Englishes around the world; educational linguistics and the internationalisation of UK Higher Education; and second language acquisition.
Cutting-edge research undertaken by the Applied Linguistics and TESOL team has been published in leading journals in the field and our lecturers are regularly invited to present their research around the world.
All Staff Profiles
Dr James Street
Dr Mimi Huang
Dr Rola Naeb
Lecturer
Mr Graham Hall
Our staff constantly seek to develop new ways of engaging with technology, including the use of mobile technology, tablet devices, and social media in both directed and independent learning to improve individual and group interaction.
Engagement with TEL throughout the course will prepare you for the increasing importance of technology in the teaching of TESOL and Applied Linguistics.
The programme team have extensive experience in the field, as language teachers, language teacher educators in a wide variety of international contexts, and as established researchers.
The programme is thus informed by our professional perspectives and by our own wide-ranging research in the field of language teaching, but also by the perspectives that our students bring to the programme.
We specifically recruit students of a high calibre with a view to further develop intellectual and professional interests through a lifelong engagement with the subject matter.
You will engage with advanced theory, professional development at a high level, and critical reflection on methodological assumptions within the field.
The modules combine exciting content with an emphasis on the development of independent analytical and research skills, supported by knowledgeable team members with links to the English Language Teaching Journal (Oxford University Press), British Association of for Applied Linguistics (BAAL), International Cognitive Linguistics Association (ICLA), International Association of Teachers of English as a Foreign Language (IATEFL) and the British Council.
We encourage postgraduates to manage their own research projects as a preparation for possible independent research at doctoral level.
The programme brings together language teaching ‘in theory’ and language teaching ‘in practice'.
Throughout, it prepares students for their subsequent language teaching career by developing their critical skills and attitudes, presentation skills, reflective and evaluative abilities and insights into how languages might be most effectively taught in their own professional context.
The course is also ideal for those looking to move into professional research, publishing and editing, and educational management.
There is constant demand both in the UK and overseas for Applied Linguistics and TESOL graduates in other language-related professions, such as the media, the helping professions, communication, publishing and editing.
Employment prospects for those holding the MA Applied Linguistics for TESOL qualification are excellent and graduates have gone on to good careers as English teachers overseas or in their home countries.
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree, or equivalent.
Full UK Fee:
                                £9,700
Full International Fee:
                                £19,350
EL6027 -
Second Language Acquisition (Optional,20 Credits)
You will develop your awareness and understanding of the field of Second Language Acquisition (SLA) through the study of central themes: age and SLA, individual differences in SLA, and similarities and differences between first and second language acquisition processes.
As such, you will also pay particular attention to current issues and debates within the field, most especially in terms of the findings of recent empirical research investigating social and contextual perspectives to the study of SLA.
You will critically analyse, by means of lecture input and classroom discussion, the main influential theories and most important research findings in SLA.
You will also focus upon different approaches to conducting empirical research in second language acquisition.
Throughout the module, you will evaluate the many varied perspectives regarding second language learning which you encounter, and establish your own view of and position within these debates, developing your ability to present your own viewpoint, both in speech and in writing, key skills for the world of work
EL6029 -
World Englishes (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will examine the role of English in the world today, as you learn about the development of English as a world language and also as a language which has many global and local varieties.
You will develop your knowledge and critical understanding of the historical, social and political contexts of the global expansion and development of English and Englishes, and will explore types of variation across Englishes (variation across time, places and spaces).
You will examine the emergence of new standard Englishes, and further develop your understanding of the debates surrounding standard language ideology.
You will also explore the internationalisation and globalisation of English, examining the ways in which English is ‘marketed’ as the language of opportunity, but also acts as a ‘gatekeeper’ in our contemporary globalized world.
You will examine the role of world Englishes in language death, and discuss possible future scenarios for new and world Englishes.
Throughout the module, you will evaluate the many varied perspectives about English which you encounter, and establish your own view of and position within these debates, developing your ability to present your own viewpoint in speech and in writing – a key employability skill.
EL6033 -
Language and Social Disadvantage (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module, you will critically analyse and review the development of language in direct relation to social disadvantage in young children, adolescents and adults.
You will examine the theoretical associations and relationships between social disadvantage and language taking into account issues of cognition, literacy, behaviour, learning, socio-emotional development, intervention and its outcomes.
You will develop your understanding of how theory applies to practice by critically evaluating various intervention studies designed to improve the spoken language abilities of young children and adolescents in various in nurseries, schools and other contexts.
You will consolidate and further develop your understanding of / critically evaluate  relationship between methodology, data and theory which you developed on EL4011 ‘Doing Linguistics’ and EL5016 Psychology of Language..
During the module, you will develop your ability to present your own viewpoint in speech and in writing – a key employability skill.
EL6052 -
Forensic Linguistics (Optional,20 Credits)
Forensic Linguistics is  the application of language analysis to forensically relevant texts for the purposes of advancing justice.
Referring to real life cases throughout, this module explores and critically analyses language used in legal contexts.
First it focuses on written legal language, including critically reflecting on the kinds of communicative problems these texts might create for ordinary people.
Students will conduct analyses of texts such as police cautions, insurance policies, consumer contracts, and jury instructions.
It moves on to examine the spoken language of the legal process, drawing on data from a wide range of sources such as police interviews and the courtroom.
Students will consider the problems of vulnerable suspects and witnesses, including children, victims of sexual assault, non-native speakers of English, and individuals with specific communicative impairments.
The module will conclude with consideration of the linguist as an expert witness, exploring the types of cases in which forensic linguists have been able to offer assistance.
The module will build upon skills acquired at Levels 4 & 5 in the description of written and spoken interaction, and will provide a detailed introduction to an important area of Applied Linguistics.
EL7005 -
Dissertation (Core,60 Credits)
The module will give you the opportunity to complete either an independent research project of your choice on a topic in English language, linguistics or TESOL, or a practice-based project.
You will be working under the supervision of at least one member of staff either to plan, undertake and write up a small research project, or to reflect on your experience during a teacher-training course.
You will learn how to plan, manage and organise a relatively large scale research or practice-based project.
To successfully carry out your project, you will need to draw on skills and knowledge acquired during your programme.
Throughout your dissertation project, you will learn how to identify interesting research questions and how to apply different data collection and analysis techniques to answer these questions.
The module will equip you with transferrable skills that are highly valued by employers including management, organisational and analytical skills.
You will be required to submit 3 formative assessments totalling 4,000 words (a research proposal, a critical bibliography and a research timeline/plan), and a 12,000 word final dissertation.
As well as individual tutorials with your supervisor(s), there will be four two-hour research lectures to support you in your work.
EL7038 -
Research Methods (Core,20 Credits)
This 20-credit module aims to provide students, whether they regard themselves as predominantly practitioners or researchers, with the conceptual and analytical tools necessary to conduct informed and responsible enquiry in Linguistics and Applied Linguistics, including language education.
You will develop your knowledge and understanding of a range of research methods in these related fields.
You will extend your ability to critically evaluate empirical research articles, including the suitability of different research approaches, instruments and methods of analysis to address the research questions/hypotheses developed.
On successful completion, you will be able to: reflect critically on the research methods used in existing Linguistics, Applied Linguistics and language education research; construct an appropriate research design for any given research question and/or hypothesis; select and undertake appropriate methods of data collection and analysis (including introductory descriptive and inferential statistical analysis); and accurately report research outcomes.
You will thus explore and undertake both quantitative and qualitative data collection and data analysis (through SPSS and NVivo), focusing on: developing clear and addressable research questions/hypotheses; research ethics; experimental design; and researching with language/textual data, including with corpora.
The module will also investigate the use of specific research instruments such as questionnaires and other survey scales, focus groups and interviews as well as observation, self-report and introspection measures.
On completion, students will be ready to conduct informed research at postgraduate level in the fields of Linguistics and/or Applied Linguistics and, as such, the module will help you prepare for your subsequent Masters’ dissertation.
EL7039 -
Psychology of Language (Optional,20 Credits)
This 20-credit module will develop your awareness and understanding of the field of Psycholinguistics.
You will critically analyse, by means of lecture input and seminar discussion, the main research themes in the field.
You will take a problem-solving, interactive approach to exploring the key principles, arguments, and research methods connected with the relationship between language and the mind.
As such, you will pay particular attention to a range of key theories within the field of Psycholinguistics and you will develop your knowledge and understanding of how data from empirical investigation relates to theory by honing your ability to use evidence to defend or refute different lines of argumentation.
EL7040 -
Sociolinguistics (Optional,20 Credits)
This 20-credit module will develop your awareness and understanding of the field of Sociolinguistics, the interface between language and society.
You will analyse critically, by means of lecture input and seminar discussion, the main research themes in the field.
As such, you will pay particular attention to a range of important specialist theories within Sociolinguistics and evaluate historical, contemporary and emerging empirical research investigating the social meaning of linguistic variation.
You will study a number of key topics: social and regional linguistic variation and change in the UK and beyond; language and identity; language attitudes and ideologies; the social and linguistic factors which drive language variation and change; stylistic variation in language use; multilingualism; discourse and pragmatic variation; and quantitative and qualitative approaches to sociolinguistic study.
Throughout the module, you will evaluate the many varied socio-psychological and contextual perspectives regarding the role of language and society which you encounter and establish your own view of and position within contemporary debates within the field, developing your ability to present your own viewpoint, both in speech and in writing.
EL7041 -
Negotiated Study (Optional,20 Credits)
This module enables students to negotiate a programme of work with a supervisor to investigate a field of interest that is not catered for by other postgraduate modules.
The teaching will comprise six half-hour tutorials with a supervisor, but students are expected to undertake the major portion of the semester's study on their own.
Where more than one student is interested in a particular field, some classes may be held in lieu of tutorials.
The content, level of achievement required, and total workload will be comparable with those of other postgraduate modules in the programme, although the balance of taught and independent work may be adjusted to allow for lower teaching contact hours.
The MA Programme Leader will be informed throughout the process of syllabus development, this overview ensuring the area or topic in is not covered elsewhere in the core or option modules, and that there is no repetition of content for the student(s).
Like all other MA modules, assessment will be a combination of either theoretical essay, language description and analysis or other appropriate work totalling the equivalent of 4,000 words.
Topics and titles will be negotiated by the supervisor and student(s).
EL7047 -
Investigating Language for TESOL (Core,20 Credits)
This module will provide you with a range of descriptive, critical, and analytical tools that will enable you to examine the English language.
You will acquire the skills required for analysing key aspects of language.
You will also be equipped with the necessary skills for examining the relationship between language and meaning in a range of contexts.
The module highlights phenomena which present difficulties for learners of a second or foreign language and shows how a detailed understanding of language in context, using linguistic data from a range of sources, such as narrative, classroom discourse, figurative language, and corpora, can be used as an effective tool in the teaching and learning of English as another language.
You will also engage with current debates in linguistic theory and applied linguistics develop the skills necessary for discovering patterns in language theory and data.
EL7048 -
TESOL Syllabus & Materials Design (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will introduce you to the principles of both TESOL materials and syllabus design, and give you practical experience of developing materials and courses for TESOL students.
The experience that you gain through participating in the course and completing the assignments will be of both practical and theoretical use for career development, through further training and potential employment in the TESOL field.
You will consider a variety of learning materials and course designs, tying these in with pedagogic and methodological approaches.
You will also look at how courses and materials have developed historically, and how linguistic and pedagogic elements are accounted for.
Throughout the module, you will be encouraged to develop a working knowledge of the principles behind designing classroom materials and course syllabuses, and a critical stance towards the examples presented to you.
You will also develop the skills necessary to design and critically evaluate a set of language learning materials, and a short course for TESOL learners.
EL7049 -
Professional Practice of TESOL (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will introduce you to current TESOL methodology, trace its development and map its possible future.
You will be exposed to current debates in the TESOL profession including issues around the use of native and non-native English teachers.
The module also has practicum sessions which require you put theory into practice.
The experience that you gain will be of both intellectual and practical value for career development and your potential employment in the TESOL field.
The areas of grammar, pronunciation and lexis, receptive and productive skills and lesson planning will also be considered.
You will gain wide ranging experience in planning appropriate lessons and delivering them during the practicum sessions.
You will also learn through observing others in practice as well as gain useful feedback from your classmates.
Through engaging in the module, you will be expected to develop, 1) familiarity with a variety of methods and approaches, 2) awareness of appropriate methodology for delivering language lessons, 3) practical skill in using appropriate methodology in the delivery of lessons.
At the end of this module, you will 1) have further experience of TESOL methodology, 2) be able to take a critical stance with regard to classroom practice, 3) have experience of planning and delivering appropriate lessons, and be able to justify the pedagogical choices made.
EL7050 -
Investigating Second Language Acquisition (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will critically analyse and review changes in theoretical perspectives of second language acquisition, and consider empirical research designed to test these theories.
You will trace development of second language acquisition theory as well as considering more recent theoretical developments looking at models which include Contrastive Analysis, Interlanguage theories, Universal Grammar, Cognitive models and the roles of input, interaction and output.
You will also consider the impact of individual differences on second language learning success, including a focus on cognitive and affective factors.
The intention is that you will develop a deeper understanding of the relationship between theory, data, and practice and encourage critical reflection.
EL7051 -
Exploring the TESOL Classroom (Core,20 Credits)
Drawing upon an Applied Linguistics perspective, this 20-credit module explores the Teaching of English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL)/English Language Teaching (ELT), and language teaching and learning more generally, looking specifically at ‘what takes place’ in the second language classroom.
It investigates the key questions and dilemmas around classroom practice, focusing on the implications of these debates for ELT practitioners and for how they/we teach.
On this module, therefore, you will engage critically with current key debates in second language pedagogy, linking your own teaching and learning experiences to theory and the research literature.
Areas examined include classroom interaction and management, language teaching methods and the emergence of a Postmethod era within ELT, and the attributes and attitudes which learners bring to the language learning classroom.
Throughout, students’ own (and differing) social and institutional contexts for English language teaching/learning will be recognised.
You will thus reflect critically upon social and historical trends within applied linguistics and English language teaching, recognising the complexity and diversity of ELT classrooms around the world, establishing your own ‘sense of plausibility’ about pedagogic practice and theory in relation to your own (current or future) professional context.
Your studies during this wide-ranging module may also help you identify aspects of the language learning classroom which you find particularly interesting.
This may form a basis for studying them further during your MA dissertation.
EL7052 -
TESOL in the World (Core,20 Credits)
Drawing upon an Applied Linguistics perspective, this 20-credit module explores key issues and debates in the TESOL field.
It investigates key questions and dilemmas around TESOL within educational, technological, economic, linguistic, sociocultural, and historical/political contextual frameworks, focusing on the implications of these debates for ELT stakeholders.
On this module, therefore, you will engage critically with current key debates which would include topics such as (1) World Englishes (2) Innovation and creativity in the TESOL classroom (technology and other options like the flipped classroom, using drama, art, etc.); (3) Culture, Intercultural communication and TESOL; (4) Literacy and TESOL (EAL and ESOL) ; (5) TESOL for Young learners; (6) Bilingualism, multilingualism including the role of L1; and (7) Instructed SLA.
YC7000 -
Academic Language Skills for Social Sciences & Humanities (Core – for International and EU students only,0 Credits)
The topics you will cover on the module include: • Understanding assignment briefs and exam questions.
• Developing academic writing skills, including citation, paraphrasing, and summarising.
• Practising ‘critical reading’ and ‘critical writing’ • Planning and structuring academic assignments (e.g.
• Listening skills for lectures.
• Speaking in seminar presentations.
• Presenting your ideas • Giving discipline-related academic presentations, experiencing peer observation, and receiving formative feedback.
• Effective reading techniques.
• Discussing ethical issues in research, and analysing results.
• Describing bias and limitations of research.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/applied-linguistics-for-tesol-dtpalt6:
Mode of Study 2 years Part Time 1 other options available
Professor
You will engage with advanced theory, professional development at a high level, and critical reflection on methodological assumptions within the field.The modules combine exciting content with an emphasis on the development of independent analytical and research skills, supported by knowledgeable team members with links to the English Language Teaching Journal (Oxford University Press), British Association of for Applied Linguistics (BAAL), International Cognitive Linguistics Association (ICLA), International Association of Teachers of English as a Foreign Language (IATEFL) and the British Council.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/applied-sciences-foundation-year-uusafy1:
The course is designed to provide fundamental scientific knowledge and skills, to give you experience in a range of science fields before you choose your ultimate degree destination.
These areas include Biology, Chemistry, Food Science and Forensic Science, establishing your laboratory skills, basic numeracy skills, data handling, ICT and study skills.
Many of our students report that, having completed this foundation course, they feel more confident and much better prepared to begin their chosen degree.
This foundation year will allow you to hit the ground running in your chosen career path .
With successful completion you can automatically progress on to one of our 11 full-time, accredited science degrees:
Take a closer look at our Applied Science courses by following the links.
UCAS Code Y002
Department Applied Sciences
The Department of Applied Sciences has an exciting and extensive portfolio of subjects including biology, biomedical sciences, chemistry, forensic science, food and nutritional sciences
Spin-out raises £1.4m for lung test to aid early diagnosis of asthma.
Forensic expert uncovers earliest known example of human burials.
Research funding gives hope for sight loss breakthrough.
Swapping meat for Quorn may protect against bowel cancer.
Scientists are a step closer to finding a new treatment for leukaemia.
Learning and teaching methods across the course are designed to provide a transition from Level 3 qualifications to those essential for access to specific science-based BSc degree courses.
The accumulation of knowledge and understanding, laboratory, IT and other key transferable skills are embedded throughout the course.
You will be assessed via a range of methods including formal examinations, open book tests, written laboratory reports, problem-solving exercises and assignments, essays, oral presentations, literature surveys, project work, poster presentations, electronic submissions and formative assessment.
As a student you will benefit from our passionate, research-active staff.
They are on hand to offer guidance and support throughout the course, operating an ‘Open Door’ policy to ensure you receive the support you need.
From the outset we help you develop the skills to become a confident, enquiry-based learner.
Our courses are at the forefront of current knowledge and practice, and are shaped by world-leading and internationally excellent research .
The academic team are active researchers in their chosen specialisms and routinely impart this knowledge into their teaching, as well as scientific conferences and publications.
Furthermore, many of our staff are experienced and established within their professional science bodies, thereby informing policy and practices within their profession.
We teach in large, modern, well-equipped labs with audio-visual facilities to enhance our ability to demonstrate techniques or interesting observations.
Our laboratories, equipment and bespoke subject-specific facilities (for example a dedicated crime scene house and state-of-the-art- laboratories) provide students with ‘real world’ experiences and learning opportunities directly applicable to their future degree subject.
This authenticity is evident in all aspects of the course from lectures through to assessment design.
Our expert, enthusiastic staff are at the heart of our department, on hand to offer guidance and support throughout your course.
The Department of Applied Sciences contributes primarily to the University’s research themes in Cellular and Molecular Sciences and Health and Lifestyle Studies.
We have research groups in: Applied Chemistry; Health Interventions and Wellbeing Research; Mammalian Cell Biology and Immunology; Microbiology; and Forensic Science.
We encourage early-career researchers and have a distinctive appeal based on academic excellence, entrepreneurialism and innovation.
Our academics balance teaching, research and working with external organisations.
Here are some examples of the different areas of research our Applied Science students and staff are involved in.
Chemistry Research and Innovation
Exploring and Exploiting Microbial Diversity
Forensic Science Research Group
Nutrition and Food
The Applied Sciences department is business focused – we seek to develop sustainable partnerships with industry and commerce to benefit you, the student.
The applied nature of research has enabled enterprise and consultancy to be established in collaboration with a wide range of industrial partners ranging from large multi-nationals to small companies based in the region and nationally.
Your skills will be developed to meet the needs identified by our partners, and your lab-ready skill set will be demonstrated to potential employers through placements and graduate recruitment available once you progress onto the full degree.
80 UCAS Tariff points
Laboratory equipment such as spatula, lab book, marker pens and a scientific calculator are required and should cost no more than £25.
You may be required to print some documents this should be no more than £10 per academic year.
AP0306 -
Scientific and Numeracy Skills (Core,20 Credits)
You will get the opportunity to improve and practice key numeracy skills that will enable you to complete the tasks for the other modules you are studying during the foundation year.
These will include calculations associated with experimental work in chemistry, biology, biochemistry, biomedical science, food science, nutrition, forensic science and sport science, such as making solutions of different concentrations using solid chemicals, preparing dilutions using stock solutions, serial dilutions, making buffers, calculating rates of reaction, equilibrium constants, enthalpies, interpreting outcomes of antibiotic sensitivity testing, processing histological, physiological and biometrics measurements, calculating biodiversity indices, etc.
You will also review your IT skills to ensure you can easily access the eLP, library and other on-line resources, including guidance on correct referencing of scientific literature.
You will use Microsoft Excel to process data similar to those that you will acquire experimentally in other modules, do simple statistics and produce graphical representations and tables of your data.
You will learn about the style of scientific writing used in peer-reviewed publications and how to present scientific data in different formats, eg.
scientific report using the IMRAD style, short summary, poster, oral presentation, mini-literature review, essay.
You will also learn how to find relevant and reliable sources of information and you will practice extracting relevant details from such sources and presenting them in your own words.
AP0307 -
Practical Skills in Science (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn and acquire key practical skills that are needed for subsequent study in your progression degree.
You will learn techniques associated with the specialisms of Food Science and Nutrition, Biomedical Science, Chemistry, Forensic Science and Biology.
You will learn how to use Excel spread-sheets to process experimentally acquired data and produce graphical representations of your results and you will learn how to present laboratory reports using the IMRAD style.
AP0308 -
Inspirational Science (Core,20 Credits)
This module will teach you about important and inspirational areas of science, focusing on how chemistry and other sciences are embedded in the development of new technologies, medicines, materials and processes.
The module is broken down into four main areas namely; Spectroscopy and Analysis; Drugs and Molecule, Material of the Future and Energy.
Within each of these key areas you will learn about the fundamental science that underpins these important research areas, why these areas are so important to us all and how recent developments in these fields helped industry, research and understanding.
AP0309 -
Research and Science Communication Project (Core,20 Credits)
This module will teach you how to expand your scientific research, science communication and team work skills through the collaborative research and presentation of a scientific research project.
Lectures and seminars will be delivered teaching you how to research a scientific subject, how to work as team in doing this and how to condense large amounts of information into a concise message.
All of these are essential core skills for a career in science.
AP0310 -
Introduction to Biology (Optional,20 Credits)
As Biology is the “Study of Life”, in this module we will explore different aspects of the living world around us.
In the first teaching block, we will delve into evolution – how did all the different life forms we see around us come into being?
How does evolution work?
In order to study life, we need to have a good overview of what different life forms there are.
This brings us into the realm of Biodiversity and Classification.
We will give an overview of the different Kingdoms that dwell on Earth, and with whom we share this planet and are connected in multiple ways.
We then look inwards, and unravel the secrets of our genomes.
Our genetic information is stored in our DNA – but how are genes organised, and how do they work?
Can the study of genetics help us to understand the world in- and around us, can it help us to “improve” the world by genetic manipulation?
In the last teaching block, we focus on human beings, and explore aspects of our physiology and neurobiology.
How does the human body function, how does our nervous system work?
Though the teaching is organised in three blocks (Evolution and Diversity, Genetics, Human Biology), this division is somewhat arbitrary as there are multiple links connecting these areas of study.
“In the living nature, nothing happens that isn’t somehow connected to nature as a whole” (Goethe, 1749-1832) In this module, we will regularly explore these connections.
AP0311 -
Introduction to Biomedical Sciences (Optional,20 Credits)
You will receive an introduction to basic biological concepts relating to the organisation of the human organism.
You will learn to describe the molecular, cellular (cytology) and tissue (histology) organisation of mammals, with particular emphasis on humans, and explain relationships between form and function at each level.
You will find out about the basic principles of genetics including the structure and role of DNA in transmission of heritable information and the principles of Mendelian inheritance.
You will begin to describe the biochemical characteristics of living organisms and explain how the human form is built up by the physical and chemical processes of digestion, absorption and assimilation of food and how energy is supplied at cellular level by respiration.
You will learn about  the concept of transport in humans by investigating gaseous exchange and transport of oxygen and carbon dioxide round the body by the heart, lungs and vascular system.
You will receive an introduction to the defence functions of the blood and characteristics of mammalian vascular systems which are important in understanding and managing disease (blood pressure, heartbeat, white blood cells, phagocytes, antibody production, blood groups).
You will be introduced to aspects of co-ordination, response and control in the human organism with reference to the processes of homeostasis and the endocrine and nervous systems.
AP0312 -
Introduction to Chemistry (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will develop an understanding of the fundamental principles underpinning the subject of chemistry.
Through discussion of theory and engaging in practical experimentation you will improve your knowledge of the five core areas of chemistry: 1.
Organic chemistry: where you will study atomic structure, bonding and reactivity of organic compounds.
Analytical chemistry: where you will study reactions to detect specific functional groups, alongside instrumental techniques such as mass spectrometry.
3.
Molecular modeling: where you will study how to represent chemical structures using a computer, in addition to developing a better understanding of molecular geometry and isomerism 4.
Inorganic chemistry: where you will study the structure and properties of metals and their complexes.
5.
Physical chemistry: where you will study factors affecting the rate and progress of chemical reactions.
You will also spend time developing chemistry-focussed laboratory skills including considering the implications of risk management and safety, which is a critical skill for all practising chemists.
AP0313 -
Introduction to Food Science and Nutrition (Human Nutrition) (Optional,20 Credits)
You will learn about the biological basis of food and nutrition and will be introduced to a range of elements and compounds which are essential for life.
The principles of healthy eating based on UK guidelines and the role of food in maintaining health including the role of microbiota will be explored whilst providing an understanding of the nutritional needs of a population.
You will explore through lectures and laboratory practicals some important aspects of food microbiology, food processing, preservation and brewing.
AP0314 -
Introduction to Forensic Science (Optional,20 Credits)
You will experience the forensic application of science to crime investigation.
This module will enable you to understand how your scientific thinking and practical laboratory skills can be deployed in a real world context.
You will cover how forensic science is utilised to assist a crime investigation, following a case specific example to illustrate key points along the investigation process.
You will further develop your microscopy and pipette skills through laboratory practicals designed around the recovery, examination and analysis of forensic material of relevance to a particular case.
Your attention to detail, precision and inquisitive mind will be core skills covered during the laboratory practical.
You will also explore how science is communicated to others.
Forensic scientists have a high level of scientific understanding that underpins the forensic evidence that they give in a statement or court room.
However, the audience - police, jury - aren't expected to have any scientific knowledge or experience but do need to understand how the scientific forensic evidence assists a crime investigation.
This requires the forensic scientists to 'translate' complex information and relay it to others at a level that they can confidentally understand it.
You will work together with colleagues in small groups to prepare a poster, conveying complex scientific information to a non-scientific audience.
Your involvement in this module will help you learn what it is to be a professional scientist, understanding the importance of observations, attention to detail and clear communication.
These are key transferable skills for those in the scientific profession and are directly applicable to all of the degree programmes that you could progress onto after successful study of your foundation year.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/master-of-architecture-degree-apprenticeship-dtpara1:
This programme is a
part-time four-year course and includes the Royal Institute of British
Architects (RIBA) Part II and Part III qualifications, which is unique to this
pathway at Northumbria.
Candidates considering this route must have an ARB Part
I qualification, preferably with a 2:1 classification; those who do not will be
required to have an interview with the teaching team.
What sets this
programme apart from the full-time pathway at Northumbria is that the design
projects are based on real-life projects out in the community, or self-directed
by the apprentice with the opportunity to explore challenges in the office.
This approach facilitates and develops the apprentices’ professional
experience, competence and expertise, leading to valuable impact on their
career.
Employers also benefit from the opportunity to retain and develop exceptional
staff, who can develop new skills and knowledge at University for application
in the workplace.
The teaching staff
are award-winning educators and architects responsible for the
design of significant building projects, as well as publishing world class
research.
They perform leading and influential roles in architectural education
both nationally and internationally.
The Architect
Degree Apprenticeship has been designed at Northumbria to equip apprentices
with the attributes needed to thrive in their career, including:
Apprenticeship programmes at Northumbria University are designed  to support apprentices in acquiring the appropriate knowledge, skills and behaviour and  retain the integrity of the apprenticeship standard as defined by IFATE .
For further details please consult the IFATE Apprenticeship standards / Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education webpage here .
This programme was
the first of its kind to be accredited by the ARB in the UK and is also
validated by the RIBA.
The Part III component of the apprenticeship is taught
and managed by the RIBA; this Professional Studies programme is regarded as one
of the best in the country.
Mode of Study 4 years Part Time
Department Architecture and Built Environment
Explore our immersive 360 tours, informative subject videos, inspirational student profiles, ground-breaking research, and a range of life at university blogs videos and articles.
The design projects
are supported by taught modules and this material includes:
This integration of
taught modules and studio projects leads to a holistic approach, informing
design decisions and enabling the apprentices to tackle increasingly complex
and challenging architectural design projects.
Our assessment
methods have been designed to contribute to professional development, by
reflecting authentic architectural practice.
The design modules are assessed
through portfolios of 2D (plans, sections, elevations etc) and 3D work
(analogue and digital models), supported by reflective journals to evidence
critical scholarship.
Technology, environmental, and management outputs are
assessed by means of reports that replicate those undertaken in professional
practice.
Apprentices can
communicate their Student Selected Investigation (the programme’s equivalent of
a dissertation) in a medium of their choice, to suit their academic strengths.
Past
examples have included traditional written outputs, podcasts, videos, exhibitions,
reports etc.
End Point Assessment
As
part of the programme, the apprentice will sit their Part III exams, which forms
a component of the End Point Assessment (EPA).
The Institute for
Apprenticeships and Technical Education (2020) defines this as follows: ‘…rigorous,
robust and independent End Point Assessment (EPA) gives employers confidence
that apprentices can actually perform in the occupation they have been trained
in and can demonstrate the duties, and knowledge, skills and behaviours set out
in the occupational standard’.
For details of the current EPA for your standard please consult the IFATE Apprenticeship standards / Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education webpage here .
This apprenticeship
normally takes 48 months part-time to complete; it includes the Part II
component (the M.Arch), the Part III exam, and an EPA that will typically be
completed within the last 6 months, that includes a professional interview and
the completion of the Case Study component of the Part III award.
Full details are
available on the IFATE website.
Full details on the modules for each year of the programme can be found below.
The apprentices
are allocated a Coach Assessor who will provide support for their academic and
professional development.
This coach is a qualified architect and educator and
appreciates the demands of ongoing professional practice.
‘Off the Job
Learning’, including structured University study, will make-up 20% of the
apprentice’s weekly learning throughout the year, and face-to-face contact will be essential.
Attendance at tutor-led sessions is very important, but this can be done
either on campus or through a blended tutorial arrangement, where students who
are based out of the region can have virtual tutorials with the team and attend
lectures online.
The staff team are fully conversant with this approach and we
have apprentices all over the country who study remotely, successfully completing
their work to a very high standard.
All learning and teaching materials will be
available via a virtual classroom that is accessible to remote apprentices.
On-campus
teaching will be part of a supportive studio design culture, learning as part
of an educational community.
Apprentices will be based within our new,
world-class architecture facilities.
A modern addition to our historic
Sutherland Building is a 1400m2 studio space with a new student hub, designed
by Page/Park Architect.
These are some of the very best studios in the country,
with outstanding workshops, as well as state-of-the-art 2&3D rapid
prototyping machines.
Apprentices will have access to a comprehensive set of
industry-standard software packages, particularly those 3D packages that enable
spatial and technical acuity.
The University also has exceptional social spaces
and lecture theatres, plus 24/7 access to our award-winning University
Library.
Learning,
teaching and assessment will be underpinned by a ‘research-rich’ approach.
Apprentices will build on research-based knowledge to develop critical
curiosity, informed judgement, and the ability to evaluate and justify proposals.
Architecture and Built Environment encompasses all of our teaching, research and enterprise in Architecture, Interior Architecture, Quantity and Building Surveying, Real Estate and Housing.
Facilities
Both Apprentice and
their Line Manager / office mentor will be supported by Northumbria University
throughout the programme, including access to online support materials.
Apprentices will also meet with their own manager/mentor and the coach assessor
in the workplace at regular points throughout the year.
Whilst off-campus and in the
workplace, apprentices will have access to our technology-enhanced learning
(TEL) facilities which provide access to module information, electronic reading
lists and online learning resources such as podcasts, e-books and e-journals.
Explore our full range of Higher and Degree Apprenticeships within the following areas:
Architecture, Built Environment and Construction
Health and Social Care
Leadership and Management
Engineering and Manufacturing
Legal and Finance
Apprentices studying an apprenticeship do not pay any tuition fees, however, as they are in full-time employment they do not have student status and therefore are not entitled to apply for student finance.
To discuss the fees for this apprenticeship in detail or to explore signing an agreement with the university, complete the enquiry form below and someone from our Business and Enterprise team will be in touch shortly.
The Levy Explained
Funding for Non-Levy Payers
Before entry onto the programme, all Apprenticeship applicants must complete an Initial Skills Assessment which maps their prior knowledge against the apprenticeship standard.
This is part of the University’s regulatory funding obligations.
The purpose of an apprenticeship is to provide new learning and the skills assessment will be used to establish whether we need to tailor your programme in any way to account for your previous qualifications or experience.
It also provides a benchmark against which to map your progress  on the programme.
To start the application process for either current employees or new recruits contact our Sales and Business Development team today by email or complete our online enquiry form .
Alternatively, you can call 0191 215 6300.
All apprentices are required to be in full-time employment to study this apprenticeship.
If you are interested in studying this apprenticeship and you are in current full-time employment complete our online enquiry form.
If you are not in full-time employment but would like to study this apprenticeship programme, keep checking our vacancies page for information regarding job opportunities.
Admission onto a higher or degree apprenticeship can only take place if applicants are currently employed and their employer has a training agreement in place with Northumbria University.
Applicants must be employed in a relevant role, with the opportunity to apply theoretical concepts directly to their personal and professional work experience.
Potential apprentices will need:
A minimum of a 2:1 honours degree from a Part 1 accredited Architectural course, or equivalent and a minimum of three months relevant postgraduate work experience.
International applicants should have a minimum overall IELTS (Academic) score of 6.5 with 5.5 in each component (or an approved equivalent*).
* The university accepts a large number of UK and International Qualifications in place of IELTS.
You can find details of acceptable tests and the required grades in our English Language section: www.northumbria.ac.uk/englishqualifications
Specialist equipment/materials - drafting and modelling equipment - approximate cost £200: Optional specialist equipment/materials - modelling materials - approximate cost £200:
Print costs - reports, A0 posters, A3 weekly outputs - approximate cost £150: Final projects - models - £50.
DA6070 -
Authentic Design Inquiry (60 Credits)
You will engage with authentic real life architectural projects for a variety of stakeholders, including: charities, public bodies, quangos and commercial clients (although the latter depends on the ethical validity of the project).
You will not only explore the discipline as a practical and theoretical subject, but be exposed to the social function of architecture, and in some case the financial constraints that architects have to operate within.
Creativity in this module is expressed as a social phenomenon as well as an artistic one.
You will also develop your skills in being able to: critically appraise and develop design briefs; make assessments of and respond to, the project’s contingencies and complexities; to communicate your work to an audience other than your peers and your tutor; and develop design strategies that result in sophisticated and appropriate design solutions that embrace the full criteria of a real live architectural project.
This module will be supported by relevant and timely workshops and tutorials, and regular reviews, also including members of the client group that we are working with.
Verbal feedback is provided via tutorials, through verbal, written and drawn formats throughout the semester.
This ongoing guidance will provide you with opportunities for reflection and independent learning.
DA6071 -
Architectural Research Methods (30 Credits)
Lectures will discuss research principles and concepts; academic theory and skills will be contextualised to an architectural idiom through case study examples of recent and current research projects.
Working in research seminar groups, will help frame the subject of your own, self-selected research proposal.
You will identify the key researchers and seminal research, current ‘state of the art’, and any ‘gap in the knowledge’ in your chosen field or subject; and produce your research project’s methodology which you will then undertake in year 2.
DA7014 -
Design Project 3: Analysis and Proposal (40 Credits)
You will improve your skills and creativity in design; the ability critically to appraise, understand the nature of, and develop design briefs; to analyse and make an assessment of the complexities of the project’s context; and propose and justify a design strategy.
You will learn to engage with critical reflection on the cultural and social context of your area of study.
Through independent and supported inquiry you will develop the design proposal up to sketch scheme (equivalent of RIBA Workstage 2) in response to your exploration.
This learning will be evidenced in a portfolio that demonstrates your theoretical position, programme context, brief development and the early stages of your design proposal.
This module will be supported by workshops and tutorials, and regular reviews, where you are expected to be critical engaged in the process.
Verbal, written and drawn feedback is provided formatively at tutorials and strategic reviews throughout the semester, to provide ongoing guidance and to establish opportunities for reflection and independent learning.
Summative assessment will be provided at the end of the semester providing guidance to be taken into DP4.
DA7015 -
Student Selected Investigation (30 Credits)
You will learn skills that enable independent learning through research and advanced scholarship, applied to the discipline of architecture.
More specifically you will acquire the knowledge and skills to identify an area of research interest and to be able to use appropriate methodologies to collect data addressing the research imperative.
You will learn how to employ analytical skills to systematically evaluate data and to draw conclusions from this data and ultimately be able to communicate the findings through appropriate means.
DA6072 -
Work Based Practice Management and Law (30 Credits)
You will learn about the procurement and administration of construction projects; contractual, legal and statutory frameworks; the Architect’s professional duties and responsibilities; contractual, managerial and financial aspects of construction project procurement; the wider arena of personnel involved in the construction industry; and the principles of running both professional practices and architectural projects.
Additionally, the ethics of architectural practice will be explored, with particular emphasis on health and safety, well-being of building users, and the impact of construction methods and processes upon the natural environment and global resources.
Learning will be predicated upon your critical consideration of the relevant professional body criteria and graduate attributes, through a reflective mapping of your professional and academic experience to date.
DA7016 -
Design Project 4 - Realisation (50 Credits)
This module is the realisation of the design thesis project, which will engage you as an independent learner in the development of a complex and integrated design proposal, based on the inquiry undertaken in dp3.
During this phase of the year-long thesis project you will engage in a rigorous design process, developing your concept (established in dp3) into a coherent and complex design solution.
With support from your design tutors you will utilise the skills and knowledge learnt during your education to date, and you will be expected to engage with an increased level of complexity and criticality that involves, amongst other exploration: an engagement with context (physical, poetic, theoretical); research into precedents and building typologies (spatial, and organisational); development of building programme, building form, spatial sophistication, materiality and appropriate detail,  working together in an integrated and holistic way; consideration of regulatory and legal constraints; technological choices and comparisons and coherently communicated through verbal, written and graphical (both 2 and 3D formats)- all commensurate with level 7 scholarship.
DA7017 -
Graduate Apprenticeship Architecture: End Point Assessment (Core,30 Credits)
You will consolidate all learning at Part 1, Part 2 and Part 3 into this final assessment, through the vehicle of a practice-based activity that has been agreed with your employer and tutor.
This real-life activity should demonstrate your capacity to act as an autonomous architectural practitioner, identifying a problem to be resolved, gathering data and guidance from codes, regulations and consultants, critically evaluating issues of cost, time and quality, and demonstrating how you have resolved this design problem systematically.
You will also critically evaluate your career to date, reflecting on your strengths and weaknesses as a student about to enter the profession as a chartered architect.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-architecture-extended-degree-uufxhe1:
On our Architecture BA (Hons) course, you will cover the main themes of architectural design:
As well as working on your design projects, you'll also have the opportunity to take part in a European field trip which will help you to experience significant buildings and cities first hand and to appreciate the historical and contemporary influences on architectural design.
See other similar courses you may be interested in: Interior Architecture BA (Hons) , Interior Design BA , Building Surveying BSc and be sure to check out all of our Architecture & Built Environment Courses .
This extended degree provides an alternative route to higher education and supports those who may not yet meet the standard entry requirements for an undergraduate degree.
It includes a foundation year where you will experience first-hand knowledge of architecture, interior architecture, the built environment, and their wider environmental context.
You will develop core academic and practical skills that prepare you for the subject, while building confidence in your creative thinking, problem-solving, and technical communication.
During the foundation year, you will explore essential concepts and current debates in architecture and the built environment.
You will learn about real world practices in spatial design, sustainability, materials, and the impact of the built environment on people and communities.
Learning takes place through a blend of studio work, lectures, seminars, and hands-on workshops, giving you the opportunity to explore design thinking and develop practical skills with industry-standard tools and technology.
UCAS Code Z039
Mode of Study 5 years Full Time
Architecture and Built Environment encompasses all of our teaching, research and enterprise in Architecture, Interior Architecture, Quantity and Building Surveying and Real Estate.
Portfolio Guidelines
At Northumbria you will become part of a close-knit design community.
You will share dedicated studio space with students from all year groups and
MArch students to ensure you learn as much from each other as you do from the
highly experienced staff.
Architecture is a design-led discipline, and at least half
of your study time will be focused upon the development of key architectural
design skills through a series of creative, real world studio design projects.
Our assessment methods reflect authentic architectural practice; design is
assessed via the projects and comprehensive architectural design portfolios,
which display your design proposals through personalised approaches to 2D
drawing (plans, sections, elevations) and 3D representation (built and digital
models).
Hear what it is really like to study Architecture BA (Hons) from our students.
What is studying at Northumbria like?
Hear it first-hand from our digital content creator Er Jia as he shares his experience.
He takes you along for a typical day in the life of a Architecture BA student.
Adam Williams
Smiths Dock Ferry Terminal
Isobel Hill
Smiths dock
Jessica Young
Tyneside Shipyard Museum
Joshua Brooks
Smiths dock nature reserve
You will be guided throughout your studies by an acclaimed
teaching team of qualified architects who have designed and built award-winning
projects nationally and internationally, and specialists in architectural
education who have taught and published research extensively.
This unique team
will provide authentic, critical and supportive guidance in helping you to
follow your career path in the profession of architecture and beyond.
The research-informed teaching methods in architectural
studies at Northumbria have been recognised as outstanding by national and
international authorities and professional bodies, leading to exceptional
levels of student satisfaction and employability.
Students and staff from Northumbria’s flagship Architecture
programmes work from our purpose-built, award winning studios in Northumbria’s
City Campus in the heart of Newcastle.
This ambitious and innovative extension to
the University’s historic Grade II listed Sutherland Building has been designed
by renowned architects Page/Park to provide you with outstanding studio
facilities and resources, all under one roof.
Here, you will benefit from almost 4 square metres of studio
space per student and one of the highest levels of personal studio space in the
UK.
This will ensure world class facilities to enhance your student experience.
As well as this, you will have your own studio desk - with drawing
board, power supply, USB point and cutting mat - throughout your studies to
help you work effectively and to immerse yourself into studio culture.
You have
direct access to IT, plotting and 3D printing nearby and the expert support
from our highly skilled technical support team.
You can find out more about our
purpose-built Architecture studios here .
Our Architecture department is located in a modern state-of-the-art development in central Newcastle.
Our Facilities
The structure of the programme is designed to effectively
equip you with the skills you need to be a critical scholar as well as a
graduate architect.
The curriculum systematically moves from teaching-centred
content delivery towards self-directed inquiry as you progress through the
programme.
Consequently, the ownership of learning increasingly belongs to you,
with staff members supporting your personal and academic development towards
self-directed goals and aspirations.
The academic staff enrich the curriculum
and your education, through their expertise and research practice in design,
design theory, education, sustainability, digital technologies, adaptive reuse
and people and place.
Find out more here .
We will arm you with skills in creative thinking and with the
contemporary knowledge and skills applicable to the industry, underpinned by
regular and authentic learning experiences.
You will acquire skills in problem
solving and divergent thinking, applicable to the wider creative industries and
built environment professions.
You will apply your learning to real world design
projects and scenarios, thereby enhancing your employability innovative ways of
communicating your ideas in written, drawn and verbal forms.
The curriculum has been designed with a vocational emphasis,
informed directly by the industrial expertise of staff, external examiners, and
the programme’s strong relationships with local and national practitioners.
The
quality of our graduates leads major national and international architectural
practices to repeatedly employ our students, who have consequently found
employment in Europe, North America, and Asia, as well as in the United
Kingdom.
The skills developed through the architecture degree not
only reflect and support the attributes expected of a graduate of architecture,
but are also transferrable into a wide selection of alternative professional
and academic pathways.
The context-focused approach of our teaching is
reinforced by linking the use of regional sites with relevant international
field study visits to the major architectural capitals of Europe.
This
validates the transferability of your knowledge and skills to the world arena.
Most graduates from Northumbria have secured key roles in
architectural practices locally, nationally and internationally.
Others have
transferred their skills to a range of professions including construction,
property development, visualisation, games design, urban design and
manufacturing.
KA3000 -
The Context of the Built Environment (Core,20 Credits)
You will be introduced here to the Built Environment as an industry and its context, both nationally and globally; its sectors and professional activity to give a good grounding in the industry, and one from which you can make an informed choice of career pathway.
You will cover the structure and nature of the industry, commercial and financial aspects, business approaches, importance of business location and premises, culture, management and employment prospects.
You will develop your ability to reflect and self assess.
KA3003 -
Building Pathology (Core,20 Credits)
This module is intended to introduce you to approaches to building surveys and appraisal through the investigation of structural defects in buildings.
You will examine the role and function of the surveyor within the context of the built environment, and will explore the work practices of the surveyor at practical and professional level.
KA3004 -
Building Use (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn how to develop a client brief on a real project and then progress a professional surveying assignment through to the production of a concluding report.
This will take the form of an introduction to academic, study and professional skills and will draw students’ first year studies into a holistic project experience.
It aims to reflect the interdependence of the different topic areas studied at Level 3, in the context of the surveying profession.
You will learn how to work both individually and as part of a team and be able to assess your own and others role, responsibilities and contribution via reflective practice.
You will study a range of topics to support the above including: 1.Property Portfolios & Estate Management Buildings/Land/Other Assets; Commercial/Residential; Private sector/Public sector 2.
The Role of Property Property development and the UK planning system; Property investment, residential Buy-to-Let; Commercial property  – Location & Use; Retail/Office/Industrial/Leisure  - Occupation & Market Valuation 3.
Property and Surveys Plans & maps; Purpose & Methods of survey; Survey inspection; Property valuation techniques 4.
Property Market and The Economy Basic economic theory; The UK housing market; Finance, interest rates and inflation 5.
The Property Profession Role of the surveyor; Who does what?
Key players and property professionals; The RICS and key property legislation 6.
Managing the Property Freehold/Leasehold; Landlord & Tenant Relationship; On completion of this module the knowledge and understanding acquired forms part of the broader contextual framework for the study of your future discipline specific programme.
KA3006 -
Architectural Design and Technology (Core,20 Credits)
You will be introduced here to the role and function of the architect and the architectural technologist within the built environment.
You will look at the wide range of activities that go together to make up the busy world of design and construction and begin to consider your future position within the workplace.
You will consider the practical application of a theoretical background that informs the way in which the built environment is  designed and delivered.
You will learn about the design process and fundamental construction technology and material solutions.
KA3008 -
ABE Final Project (Core,20 Credits)
This module is intended to distil your learning and assist you in progressing onto your chosen degree programme, providing the opportunity to explore and learn in a real-world setting.
KA3009 -
Construction Management (Core,20 Credits)
This module aims to provide an introduction to construction management.
You will appreciate the project-based and uniquely structured construction industry, and the professional roles that operate in it.
You will develop an understanding of how the construction industry is structured, how it operates, and its economic significance.
The module will also provide knowledge about the roles and responsibilities of the key project team members, how they relate to each other and how they influence the construction project outcomes.
In addition, you will gain an appreciation of core construction project deliverables and constraints, including how these are managed on a project, how they are linked together, and how they are connected to the client.
Overall, the module will develop your skills as a reflective practitioner to support your future personal and professional development.
KA4011 -
Introduction to Design Project 1.1 (Core,40 Credits)
Acquiring the inherent principles, practices and theoretical motivations of the design process forms the core learning journey within this module.
You will develop an emerging understanding of contemporary notions of physical context, narrative and spatial awareness though project briefs which explore the diversity and richness of contemporary design ideas.
Combining an appreciation and interpretation of these thematic ideas will foster critical learning skills and will help you to develop a reflective attitude towards design.
You will learn how to respond effectively, as an individual or as part of a group, to given narrative and design-based scenarios to help you understand design language, within set design briefs to generate small scale spaces.
You will learn how to test and evaluation atmosphere, language, space and form whilst being introduced to the appropriate two and three-dimensional representation skills to explore your ideas.
KA4012 -
Architecture Project 1.2 (Core,40 Credits)
An advancement in the principles, practices and theoretical motivations of the architectural design process forms your core learning journey on this module.
You will combine your developing appreciation and focussed interpretation of conceptual notions with an emerging understanding of physical context, narrative and spatial awareness within your design solutions to set project briefs that will provoke response to a given set of conditions relating to place, form, architectural language and material.
Within your project work you will develop your critical learning skills, your reflective attitude to design solutions and your application of two and three-dimensional representation to refine and convey your ideas.
KA4013 -
Introduction to Theory 1 (Core,20 Credits)
This module will introduce you to a range of historical, theoretical and technological paradigms that govern the disciplines of Architecture and Interior Architecture.
Through a thematic exposure to seminal historic and contemporary architecture and interiors, the module reveals key theoretical positions and thinking and allows you to develop your own critical appreciation of these in support of your broader subject knowledge.
Presented as a theoretically connected continuum of architectural and interior architectural thought spanning relevant epochs, the modules content will specifically align to your studio-based design projects to ensure that you have opportunity to develop your critical thinking and to inform your emergent creative practice.
KA4017 -
Introduction to Technology 1 (Core,20 Credits)
A fundamental knowledge of the social, environmental, ethical and technological principles, and the requirements of architectural practice within the context of Architecture and Interior Architecture, forms the core learning aims of this module.
Such principles will be used to contextualise issues of design theory, environmental literacy, technology and emergent regulatory awareness, all of which influence the design process of these professions.
Simultaneously, the module will introduce the broader professional, social  and ethical parameters informing the design process.
Module content will encourage critical thinking and contextual understanding, enabling the identification and understanding of emergent practice-based issues in relation to architecture and interior architecture.
Research based analysis of case studies will contextualise your emergent knowledge towards practical application to studio design projects.
KA5041 -
Academic Language Skills for Architecture and Built Environment (Core – for International and EU students only,0 Credits)
KA5000 -
Architecture Project 2.1 (40 Credits)
Synthesising the principles, practices and theoretical motivations of the architectural design process forms the core learning journey of this module.
Combining an independent appreciation and interpretation of conceptual notions with an advanced understanding of physical context, narrative and spatial awareness, the established project brief will provoke responses to specific architectural conditions and typologies relating to place, form, architectural language, material and construction.
You will develop existing 2D and 3D communication skills to realise and represent architectural propositions, exploring methods of manual, digital and mixed-media representation.
Working independently and collectively, you will develop critical learning skills and an evaluative and reflective attitude to the iterative process of architectural design.
Where applicable, projects will include site visit to real site within the local.
KA5001 -
Architecture Project 2.2 (40 Credits)
Combining an advancing independent appreciation and interpretation of conceptual notions with an advanced understanding of physical context, narrative and spatial awareness with an appreciation of the management of design proposals, the established project brief will provoke responses to specific architectural conditions and typologies relating to place, form, architectural language, material and construction.
In addition, you will critically synthesise the broader issues of design practice and management.
Working independently and collectively, you will advance your critical learning skills and your reflective attitude to the iterative process of architectural design.
KA5005 -
Architecture Theory 2 (20 Credits)
An advanced appreciation of historical, theoretical, societal and technological paradigms governing the disciplines of Architecture forms the core learning journey of this module.
Through a thematic exposure to seminal historic and contemporary architecture you will develop your existing knowledge to further reveal your understanding of key theoretical positions and of your advanced thinking.
Presented as a theoretically connected continuum of architectural thought, spanning relevant epochs, the modules content will thematically align to your wider creative learning on the programme.
You will advance your critical learning skills and your reflective attitude to advanced theories of architecture that will help you to appraise your own design work.
KA5014 -
Architecture Technology 2 (20 Credits)
Increasing awareness of social, environmental, ethical and regulatory principles and requirements of architectural practice and technologies  is manifested in your application of these themes to your module assignment and studio design projects.
You will develop a critical consideration of broader professional, social, ecological  and ethical factors informing architectural practice.
Module content will encourage critical thinking, supporting the identification, appraisal and selection of emergent themes relating to architectural design and practice.
Analytical studies of appropriate precedents, technologies and applications will contextualise your developing knowledge, and enable the application of this knowledge to your design processes.
A thematic lecture programme will explore key technologies, typologies and principles.
Supporting seminars will provide you with the opportunities to directly apply this knowledge to studio based project work.
Your communications and research skills will be advanced in order to successfully articulate and argue for the technological and environmental choices you will make within the design of studio projects.
You will be encouraged in individual and group work to carry out independent learning in order to develop a personal knowledge base applicable to academic and professional practice.
KA5045 -
Study abroad year (Optional,120 Credits)
This module is designed for all standard full-time undergraduate programmes within the Faculty of Engineering and Environment and provides you with the option to study abroad for one full year as part of your programme.
This is a 120 credit module which is available between Levels 5 and 6.
You will undertake a year of study abroad at an approved partner University where you will have access to modules from your discipline, but taught in a different learning culture.
This gives you the opportunity to broaden your overall experience of learning.
The structure of study will be dependent on the partner and will be recorded for an individual student on the learning agreement signed by the host University, the student, and the home University (Northumbria).
It will not count towards your final degree classification but, it is recognised in your transcript as a 120 credit Study Abroad module and on your degree certificate in the format – “Degree title (with Study Abroad Year)”.
KA6012 -
Architecture Project 3.1 (40 Credits)
Synthesising the principles, practices and theoretical motivations of the architectural design process within a complex design response forms your core learning journey within this module.
Combining a critical interpretation of conceptual notions and professional practice with a detailed assimilation of physical context, narrative and spatial awareness.
Project briefs will provoke responses to specific architectural conditions and typologies relating to place, form, architectural language, material, sustainability and construction.
You will articulate your ideas by employing detailed 2D and 3D communication skills to realise and represent architectural propositions alongside a written and illustrated study of the professional context within which your design ideas are framed.
Working independently and collectively, you will enhance your critical learning skills and your reflective attitude within the iterative process of architectural design.
KA6027 -
Architecture Project 3.2 (40 Credits)
You will articulate your ideas by employing detailed 2D and 3D communication skills to realise and represent architectural propositions and the professional context within which your design ideas are framed.
KA6028 -
Architecture Theory 3 (20 Credits)
A critical appreciation and evaluation of advanced historical, theoretical, urban and technological paradigms governing the disciplines of Architecture forms the core learning journey of this module.
The thematic exposure to seminal historic and contemporary architecture will develop critical knowledge to further reveal key theoretical positions and thinking.
Presented as a theoretically connected continuum of architectural thought, spanning relevant epochs, content will thematically align to your wider creative learning journey.
Existing critical learning skills will be honed to further reflective upon and interpret established theories of architecture.
KA6029 -
Architecture Technology 3 (20 Credits)
This module seeks to provide you with a focussed appraisal of the principles of architectural technologies and the social, environmental, ethical and technological principles and requirements of architectural practice, building upon the ‘Practice and Technology’ content taught in previous years.
The critical justification and imaginative synthesis of constructional systems and environmental design with the social and ethical considerations of energy consumption and ecological impacts of adopted technologies will be central to this module.
The systematic analysis of appropriate case studies and professional practices will underpin this approach.
Structural, constructional, environmental and sustainable design criteria will be considered, allowing comparative analysis of current and possible solutions; you will consequently be required to propose solutions for your studio design project that can be rigorously justified in their application to factors such as structural performance; fire strategies; accessibility; and fabrication and assembly.
Similarly, environmental consideration of daylighting; acoustic performance, ventilation, heating and cooling will require your justified argument for the design choices you will make.
In recognition of the social, ethical and environmental responsibilities of the architect, you will be encouraged to develop an understanding of sustainable design criteria and how these can be satisfied, while also meeting the aesthetic, functional and structural demands of your studio design project.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/architecture-and-built-environment-foundation-year-uusabe1:
This hands-on course ensures you gain relevant academic knowledge and practical skills from the outset using our high-quality, current technology and on-site laboratories.
At Northumbria you will experience first hand knowledge of the built environment and the wider environmental context.
The programme will focus on all the appropriate elements for the initial stages of developing you as a Northumbria Graduate and ultimately as an undergraduate degree student.
The learning outcomes for the Built Environment programme and the modules have been mapped against the professional development requirements and the competencies required by this industry.
Northumbria foundation year students have a mature, intellectual curiosity through an examination and understanding of professional practice, current theories, policy and real-life practice.
As a result, you will be able to develop and apply your academic knowledge and experience of research skills to your chosen degree programme.
You will be taught by a diverse group of built environment related professionals.
Their background, knowledge and experience in both practice and academia, and the emphasis and support of a research rich learning environment, will allow you to develop a research rich, practice based experience and encourage you to carry on your studies in an undergraduate programme.
Architecture at Northumbria is ranked top 15 in the UK for Teaching Quality & Student Experience.
(Times Good University Guide, 2025).
There is a set of modules to follow if you want to go onto further study in Built Environment.
On successful completion of the foundation year, you
can go on to study a range of courses including:
UCAS Code K441
Find out what our students and staff have been up to
Watch as Northumbria students showcase there work in 2022 Reveal show
Festival fever gripped Northumbria at Design for Planet Festival 2022.
Double Book Publication: Architecture Past, Present & Future by Northumbria academics.
Success for Architecture students at RIBA Awards.
NU Architecture department develop life-like 3D model of Newcastle.
You’ll learn through a variety of methods including lectures and seminars, practical use of tools and equipment, laboratory work, professional speakers as well as guided and self-study.
You’ll get the chance to work as an individual and learn with others in group situations.
Assessments are designed to help you develop both general and discipline specific knowledge as well as developing transferable skills including communication, research and team work that will prepare you for progression onto your chosen undergraduate degree.
You’ll be supported by the Foundation Year team to help you transition to university life and develop the skills you need to plan, manage and review your progress throughout your studies.
Your tutors are a diverse group of experts in the built and natural environment with a genuine passion for their subject.
With backgrounds and experience in both academic teaching and practice, they bring real-life experience to your learning.
Whatever direction your studies take you, you’ll find the latest technology to support you in dedicated laboratories and studios.
Survey, visualise and model your work with access to facilities including a modelling workshop, rapid prototyping room, building and materials laboratories and a virtual reality studio as well as group and individual study areas.
Alternatively if Geography and the Environment is your interest, you will have access to state of the art laboratory facilities and a range of field equipment and specialist software, including a qualitative research suite and social spaces for our student community.
You’ll be encouraged to take your ideas out of the University and into the world around you on field trips and site visits while remote access to course materials helps support assessment work and revision.
Your tutors and lecturers are drawn from a team of professionals and experts in built and natural environments.
Their experience and background in research , industry and academic teaching will help you to develop your own research rich, practical experience to support you in further study on your chosen degree course.
As a foundation student you’ll gain the intellectual and practical skills to place you in a great position to go forward to further study or employment.
By understanding current theories, policy and real-life professional practice, you’ll be able to develop and apply your academic knowledge and research skills to your chosen degree course.
The Faculty has a dedicated support team to help you gain placements in relevant industries and connect you to employers promoting graduate vacancies.
You may go on to work in planning, surveying or careers in sustainability, greening business, environmental management, and conservation, and fields as diverse as housing, cartography, pollution control, urban regeneration, local government, overseas development and teaching.
KA3007 -
Quantity Surveying (Optional,20 Credits)
You will apply basic mathematical skills to the mensuration of land and buildings and to the calculation of building costs.
This module will complement other level 3 modules and will contribute to an integrated project.
You will develop throughout this module numeracy skills relating to the use and evaluation of data relating to the measurement of buildings and land and the calculation of building costs.
Topics include: • Productivity rates • Estimating building costs • Scheduling of building work • Mathematical and arithmetic operations • Mensuration formulae and techniques • Organisation of information using databases The emphasis is on organising and communicating information relating to the costs of buildings through the use of relational databases.You will apply basic mathematical skills to the mensuration of land and buildings and to the calculation of building costs.
Topics include: • Productivity Rates • Estimating building costs • Scheduling of building work • Mathematical and arithmetic operations • Mensuration formulae and techniques • Organisation of information using databases The emphasis is on organising and communicating information relating to the costs of buildings through the use of relational databases.
ABE Final Project (Optional,20 Credits)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/architecture-ba-hons-uufahe1:
UCAS Code K100
Mode of Study 3 years Full Time or 4 years with study abroad
Find out more about what our Architecture students and staff are getting involved in.
This course is eligible for a scholarship
find out more →
Hear what it is really like to study Architechture BA (Hons) from our current students.
Hear more from our students
University Open Days
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Architecture.
128 UCAS Tariff points
Applicants will need Maths and English Language at minimum grade 4 or C or the equivalent.
Applicants are required to submit an online portfolio with their application.
112 to 120 Tariff Points
Typically, offers range from 104 to 120 UCAS tariff points , but we’ll assess your individual circumstances and potential when reviewing your application.
Specialist equipment/materials - drafting and modelling equipment - approximate cost £200:
Optional specialist equipment/materials - modelling materials - approximate cost £200:
Print costs - reports, A0 posters, A3 weekly outputs - approximate cost £150:
Optional field trip - flight and subsistence costs - approximate cost £400:
Final projects - models - £50.
--------------------------

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/architecture-march-ft-dufaht1:
The architecture programmes at Northumbria are all framed in
relation to a common ethos and approach.
Contextual Awareness: The exploration and importance
of place, reading the context and being responsive to site as a precursor
to change and adaptation.
Environmental Literacy: In response to the climate
emergency, environmental
literacy will be embedded in every module assignment and assessment.
Design Led: Creativity is central to architectural practice and is
developed through studio practice as a research method.
Authentic Learning: Projects will engage with real-world issues,
learning through doing, and working beyond the confines of the institution.
Constructive Alignment: Connecting strands of knowledge to form an integrated
approach to the subject and developing holistic architectural
propositions.
Looking for Undergraduate courses?
We offer Interior Architecture BA and Architecture BA or be sure to check out our other Architecture & Built Environment Courses to find similar courses
Mode of Study 2 years Full Time
We are interested in what inspires you, who inspires you and how you communicate that enthusiasm through your work.
Find out what our students and staff are up to.
The Master of Architecture (MArch) programme is structured
in two, inter-related strands:
Design (practice and research)
Theory (research and critical practice)
In the MArch design modules comprise 50% of year one and 75%
of year two (the ‘design thesis’).
Students are expected to demonstrate their increasing independence,
self-reflection and criticality as they proceed through the course, while also
contributing to dialogue about individual projects and the evolution
of their position and approach to real-world concerns.
Students produce a
diverse portfolio across different geographical conditions (e.g.
rural/
coastal, post-industrial/peri-urban, urban/ suburban).
See all the Modules for this Architecture    course
Here are some examples of the work our Architecture MArch students produce.
Benjamin Slater
Tidal Guardian: Nature’s Sustainable Shield
Jana Obrovska
Artefacts of the Waste Age: „Sea it.
Cairn it.
Mould it.“
Callum Harker
Below the Horizon
Sophia Dias-Hudspeth
The Fragile Edge – Protecting and restoring fragile coastlines through agriculture
Hear what it is really like to study at Northumbria from our current students.
An acclaimed, award-winning, teaching team comprising
outstanding architects and academics will offer guidance, support and expertise
throughout your course.
Collectively, this team has designed and built
award-winning buildings, both nationally and internationally, as well as
publishing world-leading research.
Your studies are supported by some of the best studio and workshop facilities in the country, including state-of-the-art 2&3D rapid prototyping machines and associated computer software.
You are encouraged to use the full suite of technology enhanced learning (TEL) opportunities available to you as part of our modern curriculum.
Come and explore our outstanding facilities in this interactive virtual tour.
View all Facilities
The Royal Institute of British Architect’s (2020) The Way
Ahead strategy for the next ten years of architectural education and
continuous professional development recognises the need for (and acknowledges
the reality of) both ‘general practitioner’ architects and specialists within
the field - contributing to practice, education, and research.
At Northumbria, our Master of Architecture (MArch) programme
is designed to support and facilitate you in taking steps towards your
longer-term goals.
This begins with the application process and your Personal Statement which you will develop into your own personal ‘change agenda’
setting the aims and objectives for your MArch, outlining the steps you will
take towards achieving those goals.
Assessment methods encourage deep approaches to learning.
Our research combines pioneering technology and unique industry partnerships while addressing issues with international impact.
View all Departmental Research
Our Research Areas
Studying architecture provides a broad background knowledge
in the liberal arts and transferable skills including design and communication
via a comprehensive mix of manual and digital methods; self-reflection and
intrinsic motivation; analytical and critical thinking; and awareness of social
justice and environmental responsibility.
These attributes then allow
architecture graduates to choose to be a ‘general practitioner’ or to
specialise within the profession of architecture or to diversify into other areas.
The MArch course fulfils the ARB/RIBA Part II
requirements for professional accreditation and will enable you to develop the
higher level skills of design and research needed to support self-directed
architectural design projects, and to shape your future career.
Accreditations
Prescribed by the Architects Registration Board (ARB) at
Part 2 level for the purpose of registration in the UK.
Validated by the Royal Institute of British Architects
(RIBA) at Part 2 level for the purpose of eligibility for membership of the
RIBA.
Accredited by the Board of Architects Malaysia (LAM) for the
purpose of eligibility for registration as a Graduate Architect with the Board
of Architects Malaysia.
This programme meets the accreditation criteria,
attributes, knowledge and skills required in Architectural Study as stated in
the Manual of Accreditation for Architecture Programme.
Our graduates are really making an impact, transforming their lives and others.
Here are a selection of some of our Alumni who have been taught Architecture MArch.
Alexander Furniss
Click here to read more.
Emma Hodgkiss
A minimum of a 2.2 honours degree in architecture from an RIBA validated / ARB accredited school of architecture, or equivalent.
A minimum of three months post-Part 1 experience in an architecture practice is preferred, but applications are considered on an individual basis, particularly where transferrable skills and applicable knowledge can be demonstrated.
Applicants are required to submit a digital portfolio with their application.
Specialist equipment/materials - drafting and modelling equipment - approximate cost £200:Optional specialist equipment/materials - modelling materials - approximate cost £200:Print costs - reports, A0 posters, A3 weekly outputs - approximate cost £150:Final projects - models - £50.
KA6044 -
Design Project 1: Experimentation (30 Credits)
In this module you will develop and demonstrate the ability critically to appraise, understand the nature of, and develop design briefs.
You will develop your creativity and criticality in assessment of the complexities of the project’s cultural and social context; and propose and justify a design strategy.
This module is designed to create spaces for meaningful ‘play’, to help you to embrace the ‘mess’ and ‘risk’ of practising as a fundamental part of the creative process, and to recognise, analyse and learn from the heuristic and happenstance as much as the preconceived.
You will be facilitated to and engage with self-reflection in developing your approach to architectural design.
KA6045 -
Design Project 2: Speculation (30 Credits)
You will explore the discipline as a practical and theoretical subject, be exposed to the social function of architecture, and the constraints architects operate within.
You will also develop your skills in being able to: critically appraise and develop design briefs; make assessments of and respond to the project’s contingencies and complexities; to communicate your work to an audience other than your peers and your tutor; and develop design strategies that result in sophisticated and appropriate design solutions.
KA6046 -
KA6047 -
Practice Management and Law (30 Credits)
Architecture as an agent of change means cultivating self-reflective, critical practitioners equipped with the skills and knowledge to make strategic and informed choices.
You will consider both the value and the limits of your experience, valuing the contributions of different forms of knowledge, and when and how to engage with and motivate others.
This module frames the strategic professional and cultural contexts in which we operate and how these might align with your own emerging philosophy and practice of architecture.
You will consider your own professional aspirations and responsibilities, and develop academic and professional skills including, effective communication in different settings and to different audiences; intrinsic motivation; self-reflection and critical thinking; ethics and social responsibility.
KA7011 -
KA7012 -
KA7013 -
KA7056 -

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/artificial-intelligence-extended-degree-bsc-hons-uusxri1:
As Artificial Intelligence (AI) plays an ever-increasing role in helping individuals and organisations deal with new and exciting developments affecting today’s society, our BSc (Hons) Artificial Intelligence course immerses you in an exciting, innovative environment where you will develop your theoretical and technical knowledge and skills which will be directly relatable to your future career.
You will discover, learn, and master technology that is going to change our relationship with computers forever.
From intelligent chatbots that ‘understand’ and communicate just like humans, to uncovering information from Big Data that could predict disease and save lives.
Computer
Science and Informatics is ranked 12th in the UK for research power out of 90
submissions (REF, 2021).
This is a rise of 54 places compared with 2014.
Information Technology & Systems is ranked 5th in the UK by the Complete University Guide for 2025.
Information Systems & Management at Northumbria is ranked 1st in the UK for Teaching Quality & Student Experience (Times Good University Guide, 2025).
Discover why studying at Northumbria University is the right choice for you.
Starting with computer science essentials, you will become an expert in AI, machine learning, computer vision and evolutionary computation by the time you graduate.
You will study core knowledge in computer programming, algorithms and data structures, data management, cloud computing, as well as key topics in artificial intelligence, computer vision, robotics and automation, and machine learning.
Currently, the demand for graduates with AI skills is high.
For example, the UK Government recently set up an Office for AI because there is so much demand for its application in society and business.This means that - when you graduate from your BSc in Artificial Intelligence; you will be in high demand from employers and, by studying here, at Northumbria, you will be ready for a cutting-edge career and work on the technology that is destined to change computing forever.
You will have plenty of chances to practice your skills.
During the course, you will take part in a business consultancy project, delivering solutions to real-world problems.
This can be here in Newcastle or at our partner campus in London.
As well as this, you can opt for an optional year in industry or studying abroad.
This can be a great opportunity to develop and enhance your intellectual and professional skills, broadening your overall learning experience.
It includes a foundation year offering a wide-ranging and rigorous introduction to the various facets of computing and information science.
From day one, you will be immersed in an exciting, innovative environment where you will develop your theoretical and technical knowledge and skills which will be directly relatable to your future career.
You will learn that computing and information technology has changed both the world of business and the everyday lives of huge segments of the world's population and explore the rapid evolution of computing technology and how this challenges many aspects of society and offers a potential to change the world.
UCAS Code Z065
Hear from our students on their experience of studying Artificial Intelligence and Computer and Information Sciences.
Find out more about what our department has to offer.
Northumbria University launches Centre for Responsible AI.
Northumbria graduate entrepreneur takes the AI industry by storm.
Northumbria to host Digital Civics Exchange in spring.
Sensors built into wearable patches could signal the future.
Wearable device provides support for Parkinsons patients.
In your first year, you will begin with computer science essentials, studying computational thinking, programming and data, as well as your first AI topic.
Thanks to some shared modules, you will get to know other students on our computer science degrees and make connections between the different topics we teach.
In second year, you become a specialist, focusing almost entirely on AI.
You will get to grips with AI methods, algorithms, data structures and more.
You will also get the chance to spend time on a consultancy project based on real-world contexts, getting real-life experience.
Your final year makes you an expert, ready for the world of work.
You study AI topics in depth and complete a group computing project with fellow students.
You also complete your dissertation in final year.
This is your chance to impress employers by designing, building and evaluating your own AI project.
During your course, the assessments are designed to help you develop the knowledge, understanding and skills required of a computer science graduate.
You will be assessed through a variety of different methods including exams, reports, presentations, individual, group and project work.
See all the Modules for this course
As well as teaching you and conducting research, your tutors work with other organisations and regularly publish work in prestigious publications, contributing solutions to business computing challenges.
Computer Science programmes at Northumbria take place in a dynamic learning environment where you will have access to an expert team of staff - developing in-depth technical expertise as well as career-ready skills like teamwork, communication and critical thinking.
View staff profiles to read about their research interests, academic journey, and publications.
Dr Alan Godfrey
Prof Longzhi Yang
Prof Yifeng Zeng
Dr Ossama Alshabrawy
We are living in a digital age where all of our lives are impacted by computer sciences and digital technologies, from cyber security and computational intelligence to games and visual effects, meaning it is essential that research continues to broaden our understanding.
In studying Computer Sciences at Northumbria University, you will be immersed in a research-rich environment with new and exciting insights into the discipline by our rapidly expanding Computer and Information Science research groups , helping to overcome challenges and understand the future of technology.
With access to diverse research work carried out by our expert academic staff, we seek to promote innovative and excellent learning and teaching practice, which will improve your student experience here at Northumbria.
As a graduate in Artificial Intelligence, you are going to be in high demand.
As more and more businesses need to adapt to technological advances, the demand for AI skills increases.
As an Artificial Intelligence graduate, you may wish to enter a career in areas such as Data Analytics, Big Data engineering, AI Engineering, User Experience Design, Data Mining and Analysis, Natural Language Processing for chatbots, Machine Learning, Research, and more.
Also, since a growing range of industries require AI skills, you could choose to work in sectors like: Financial services, Healthcare, Technology, Media, Marketing, Government, Military, Agriculture, Gaming, and Retail.
Studying Artificial Intelligence at Northumbria doesn’t limit you to only AI roles, however.
With the skills and knowledge gained throughout your course, you may also be qualified for a wider range of careers.
For example: Software engineering, Systems analysis and design, consultancy, computer networks, database development and management, Software testing, and IT management.
You will have the chance to take up to a year-long work placement.
This will give you a real head-start in your career because you will understand how your learning applies to real-life problems that businesses face, have more confidence about working life and what it involves, and could gain valuable contacts.
Thanks to Northumbria’s excellent professional services, you will have the opportunity to apply for a placement in the public or private sector, in the UK or abroad.
Previous students from the department have been on placement with blue-chip companies such as Hewlett Packard and GlaxoSmithKline and at CERN in Geneva.
An alternative option for your third year could also be study abroad.
This option allows you to get a global perspective on your subject, which could pave the way for an international career in the future.
Discover some of our masters course to see where your next steps in academia could be: Artificial Intelligence MSc .
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Artificial Intelligence.
KC3004 -
Personal, Academic and Skills Development (Core,20 Credits)
The aim of this module is to equip you with some of the skills that are necessary for securing success whilst studying at university.
The module comprises three main skill areas: Personal Skills – this area will support the identification of your skills and abilities through targeted activities that highlight both your strengths and weaknesses, looking at ways to maximise your presence within both a university context and the wider workplace.
This identified skill-set will be mapped against a matrix that illustrates an idealistic set of skills for future succes and personal development planning (PDP).
Academic Skills – this area will include guidance and tutorials on academic writing, critical analysis, introductory referencing and research support.
IT Business Skills – this area will explore the subject area of Information Technology within a business context, identifying what it means in relation to the needs and requirements of an organisation.
You will be expected to reflect on the approach that has been taken and evidence your understanding  through presentations and portfolio building.
KC3005 -
Digital Technologies (Core,20 Credits)
The aim of the module is to provide you with knowledge and understanding of digital technologies within a range of industry sectors.
You will be expected to research and discuss a given topic on digital technology.
You will be presented with the opportunity to research, evaluate and develop practical skills using the tools and techniques required within different industry settings and  how these  can be used to support their business, client, and customer needs.
This will be underpinned by acquiring academic and intellectual skills and competencies, through research and development in related technology sectors.
This module is concerned primarily with knowledge and understanding of the technology industries and how it is influenced by the use of information and digital technologies; thus it will involve practical sessions along with theoretical debate.
In particular, you will cover topics such as: The place of HCI and UX within the tech industry.
The use of digital technologies within a range of industry sectors.
The evolution of ubiquitous computing technologies.
Ways of problem solving digital technologies to support client/customer needs Research informed practices within industry.
Future proofing digital technology sectors.
KC3006 -
Introduction to Information Systems (Core,20 Credits)
The aim of the module is to •	Develop an understanding of information systems as a multidisciplinary area •	Show how business information systems support different areas of an organisation •	Use methods for analysing, specifying and designing information systems •	Explore how emerging technologies can be used in information systems •	Develop critical and abstract thinking In this module you will learn about the  methods for analysing, specifying and designing information systems within a framework which takes a holistic approach to the introduction of change and in which user requirements are considered fundamental.
Information systems are an integral part of any modern organisation and are increasingly used to support every aspect of an organisation's functions and activities.
Whilst innovative use of technologies can provide significant benefits, information systems deliver value where they are deployed to meet the goals of an organisation.
You will cover topics such as: •	To explore the system’s components, explain elements in the study of Information Systems •	Business information systems and the core concepts: data and information •	Requirement analysis and presenting data •	Research methods and sources •	Creating instructions •	Growth of the internet, and cloud •	Social media – strengths and weaknesses •	Introduction to web design, HCI for web, testing and evaluation •	Online trading/e-commerce •	Ethical issues in information systems •	Cyber security •	Mobile technologies and apps •	Presenting an idea, peer reviewing, debating skills
KC3008 -
Code wrangling for beginners (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will learn that computing and information technology has changed both the world of business and the everyday lives of huge segments of the world's population.
You will learn about the rapid evolution of computing technology and how this challenges many aspects of society and offers a potential to change the world.
You will also learn how information is created, stored, manipulated, and processed.
Using many hands-on practical sessions you will be exposed to some of the latest technologies underlying the Internet of things.The Internet of Things (IoT) is the network of physical objects—devices, vehicles, buildings and other items—embedded with electronics, software, sensors, and network connectivity that enables these objects to collect and exchange data.
Using some of the latest educational tools you will begin to paddle in the edges of the ocean of computation.
The module is designed (as part of a programme of study) to prepare you to progress to an undergraduate degree.
Topics include; •    Computing & Information •	Introduce the study of information, what is it?
•	How Moore’s law has underpinned the development of computing technology.
•	Give you a basic grasp of terminology, What is hypertext?
What is hardware and software?
What is a bit?
•	What is inside an Operating System?
•	You will See inside the machine and how it works.
•	What are the current domains of knowledge of computer science •	You will learn about presenting data •	You will learn basic elements of program construction.
•    Problem solving •	You will learn about techniques for problem-solving including decomposition, and brain storming.
•	You will learn about top down vs.
bottom up thinking and how this impacts on a project's business and technical needs.
KV3001 -
Digital Society Case Study (Core,20 Credits)
The aim of the module is to provide you with a further opportunity to explore the real-world application of information technology (IT) and information systems (IS) within the digital society.
You will learn how user experience, technology and systems apply in a range of digital society contexts and will carry out a case study to examine a particular area in depth.
This will involve exploring the impact of IT and IS on individuals, organisation, and communities to explore speculative design futures.
As part of this module, you will also continue to work within teams, and will further develop research and presentation skills.
The module will complement the other modules where you learn the specifics of the technology and systems and within this module you will be able to understand where this fits into the real world.
KV3002 -
Introduction to Physical Computing (Core,20 Credits)
This module will provide you with knowledge and understanding of physical computing systems, their existing applications within society and their potential impact.
You will be encouraged to explore potential applications of physical computing systems to existing problems.
By applying programming skills to systems using microcontrollers you will demonstrate your response to a variety of real-world challenges.
This will be underpinned by acquiring academic and intellectual skills and competencies needed as a computing professionals.
KV4004 -
AI Fundamentals (Core,20 Credits)
This module will give you a foundational knowledge of machine learning (ML) and artificial intelligence (AI) concepts and related Microsoft Azure services.
This module will help you demonstrate knowledge of common ML and AI workloads.
In addition, ‘AI Fundamentals’ will guide you through hands-on sessions and workshops on how to implement common ML and AI workloads on MS Azure.
‘AI Fundamentals’ will prepare you for later modules, as well as for a placement in your third year.
Employers look for skilled graduates with industry-recognised and technology-based certifications such as the MS Azure AI Fundamentals AI-900.
Employers are seeking talented individuals who can work as members of a team in understanding, analysing, and designing AI solutions leading to sustainable growth, change and impact and applying effective, responsible and ethical AI-enabled techniques.
During ‘AI Fundamentals’, students will work through a series of workshops and exercises relying on state-of-the-art AI technologies and Cloud Computing such as MS Azure.
Furthermore, students will make use of Northumbria’s state-of-the-art computer labs.
Students will also critically engage with research outputs as part of their research-rich learning.
‘AI fundamentals’ lectures and workshops will help students prepare for the AI Fundamentals certification exam (AI-900).
This certification can be used to prepare for other Azure role-based certifications like Azure Data Scientist Associate or Azure AI Engineer Associate which are much sought-after by recruiters.
KV4006 -
Computational Thinking (Core,20 Credits)
Thinking like a computer scientist means more than being able to program a computer.
It requires solving problems at multiple levels of abstraction.
Before any programming begins the solution to the problem must be understood.
Using real world case studies, in this module you will develop skills to decode client’s problems developing skills of abstraction and systems design to specify solutions.
A key skill employers seek is the ability to solve problems, in this module you will develop computational thinking to achieve this.
Computational thinking is a range of mental tools such as algorithms, modelling, logic, generalisation, decomposition, abstraction, pattern recognition and others that reflect the full breadth of Computer Science.
Computational thinking is about solving problems, designing systems and understanding human behaviour.
This module will teach you to reformulate seemingly difficult problems into solvable ones by using processes such as reduction, embedding, transformation or simulation.
Computational thinking can be applied to a wide variety of subject areas beyond computing, to the sciences, the arts and business.
Whether developing a start-up for the latest sustainable product or fighting for social justice you will learn to be able to apply computational thinking’s vocabulary (for example algorithm, precondition, non-determinism, etc.) to many non-digital problems.
In this module you will learn not to program but to conceptualize.
You will learn not by rote skill, but instead by leveraging fundamental principles, by engaging with ideas not artefacts, and by embedding learning and exploration in your experience.
Computational thinking has implications for everyone, everywhere and it will be integral to your future in both digital and real-life endeavours.
During ‘Computational thinking’ you will work through a series of exercises, making use of Northumbria’s state-of-the-art computer labs and digital security lab.
You will also critically engage with research outputs as part of your research-rich learning.
The principal elements of assessment will be directed exercises in which you try to answer questions correctly, and a project in which you will explore and decompose a problem before trying to identify a solution.
KV4007 -
Computers & Society (Core,20 Credits)
What is a ‘good’ technology?
This module will provide an introduction to the range of effects, opportunities and unintended consequences, that computing has upon society.
The design decisions taking in developing technologies can have far reaching consequences across all areas of society, from big philosophical questions such as ‘can computers ever be sentient’, to shopping for groceries, and biohacking.
This module will provide a foundation in concepts such as the forms of harms which can arise from the design, development, and use of technologies, including algorithmic harms, and compounding existing inequalities.
Conversely you will be familiarised with where disruption provides new opportunities and challenges society to re-evaluate the status quo.
This is approached through a framing which considers broader attitudes towards technology, sustainability, what drives the development of technology for profit, and how users may stage resistance against authority/power using computers.
Topics include algorithmic harms, the digital citizen and pro/anti-social behaviours, morality and ethical design, and future of a digital society.
During ‘Computers & Society’ you will engage in research-rich critical analyses of harm arising through the development of technology, learn how to develop evidence-driven arguments, and position yourself as a responsible computing professional by identifying what harms you might unintentionally contribute to, and how you might avoid or mitigate doing so.
KV4008 -
Computing Fundamentals (Core,20 Credits)
This module aims to provide you with a theoretical and practical foundation required to understand the fundamental underpinnings of a computing system.
You will be introduced to the basic concepts and first principles involved in computer software, information representation and the operations and components used in computer system architectures.
You will gain an understanding of the underlying theory of computation as well as the major computational and programming paradigms.
To complement this theoretical underpinning, you will also study the standard von Neumann computer architecture and von Neumann machine programming.
This module will help you develop logical reasoning, computational thinking and problem-solving skills employers look for.
An introductory understanding of computer architecture and assembly programming improves your career options in areas such as embedded systems.
Practising and developing mathematical skills and problem-solving improves your employability and allows you to develop this area further at later stages of the programme.
A broad understanding of the theoretical principles of computing allows you to extend this understanding into areas of theoretical research.
It also allows you to engage with wider discussions in the computing community.
The module examines current computational paradigms and principles of design of computer hardware and their environmental impact.
KV4009 -
Data Fundamentals (Core,20 Credits)
This module focuses on core data concepts, and the design, implementation and use of database systems.
It introduces database systems, the tools for manipulating data in databases, and design principles that ensure data security and integrity.
Topics include database management systems architecture, data modelling and database design, query languages, data preparation and cleansing techniques and security, legal and ethical issues concerning the use of databases in society.
You will consider issues such as the sustainability of data, and the ethics of responsible data capture and use.
You will work with database systems and data services used in industry.
The module follows some of the same topics as the MS Azure Data Fundamentals (DP-900) certification course, therefore students may wish to pursue this certification during their programme.
During ‘Data Fundamentals’ you will work through a series of exercises, making use of Northumbria’s state-of-the-art computer labs.
You will also engage with research outputs as part of your research-rich learning.
One assessment component (50%) will be a written report that demonstrates your understanding of ethical, legal and security related issues concerning data and databases, based on current research.
The other assessment component (50%) will be a practical assessment that assesses your knowledge and skills relating to key data concepts, analysis, and techniques.
‘Data Fundamentals’ will prepare you for later modules such as ‘Data Mining’, as well as for a placement in your third year.
Employers are looking for skilled graduates who have technology-based certifications such as MS Azure Data Fundamentals (DP-900) that validate their skills in analysing data and applying effective solutions to computing problems.
KV4012 -
Programming (Core,20 Credits)
During this module you will learn how to create software using a high-level programming language such as Python.
You will learn to select and apply standard programming structures for appropriate situations.
The module will cover the use of variables, conditions, loops, subprograms, abstraction mechanisms and structured data types.
You will learn to apply your skills using a professional development library, such as Flask, to build interactive user interfaces.
You will practise solving problems by breaking them down into smaller tasks.
As well as constructing software that works, you will also start to consider the quality of your code and produce software that is reliable and maintainable by working to professional standards.
You will learn to test, debug and maintain software of an appropriate size and to manage your time in constructing well-structured software products.
We will study one programming language in detail on this module.
This course will powerfully contribute to your employability by beginning your journey into software development, a skill which many employers will test before interview.
As the course develops you will get to use professional software development libraries to aid your graduate employability.
You will be encouraged and supported to go beyond the essential skills in and advance your development experience.
During ‘Programming’ you will work through a series of exercises, making use of Northumbria’s state-of-the-art computer labs and digital security lab.
The main elements of assessment are a set of programming assignments that will bring together all your new skills and techniques.
KV5001 -
KV5033 -
Algorithms and Data Structures (Core,20 Credits)
This module will extend your understanding of system development.
You will cover the algorithms theory, implementation and processing of appropriate data structures within the context of an industry-standard approach.
In particular, this module will provide the knowledge to make the application faster and scalable in terms of the time complexity and properties of key algorithms and data structures.
This module will also present a practical experience of implementing a range of algorithms and program testing and how to apply them in high performance computing.
This module will prepare you for a placement in your third year by providing you with the common interview questions.
Employers are looking for skilled programmers who can analyse the algorithms and make the appropriate selection of data structures for the project.
During this module, you will work through a series of exercises, making use of Northumbria’s state-of-the-art computer labs and digital security lab.
The main element in assessment (100%) will be a final code solution assignment that will bring together all your new skills and techniques.
KV5035 -
Software Architecture (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will give you an essential foundation in software architecture.
You will learn about the importance of making high-level design choices when developing software systems.
You will learn how to model and reason about architectural design choices and to take account of multiple perspectives and concerns.
You will be introduced to a range of architectural styles and to their application.
You will learn about the relationship between software architecture and software quality, including security, dependability, and scalability.
The module will combine ways of thinking and reasoning about software systems with practical approaches to implementation.
You will learn how to use appropriate frameworks and libraries, how to use tools for managing quality and risk, and how to create interfaces between system components.
As part of the work you will build a component-based system.
‘Software Architecture’ will prepare you for your final year, providing approaches that will be valuable if you develop software for your Group and Individual Projects.
Employers are looking for skilled software architects who can work as individuals and as members of a team in making high-level design choices and framing technical standards.
Software Architect roles are often among the highest paid in the software industry.
During ‘Software Architecture’ you will work through practical exercises, making use of Northumbria’s state-of-the-art computer labs.
The assessment will be a final assignment to design, implement and document a software system following architectural principles.
KV5036 -
Computer Vision (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will give you a good understanding of the mathematical principles and practical implementation of computer vision systems.
You will be taught the fundamental mathematics, statistics, and machine learning algorithms that allow you to build computer vision systems to gain insight into the contents of images and videos.
You will develop a computer vision system that is designed for a specific application, for example the detection and classification of speed limit signs for an autonomous car, the detection and recognition of a face for secure access systems, or the detection and classification of human activity in a video.
You will follow rigorous engineering principles to build the system architecture and adopt a holistic and proportionate approach to mitigate security risks in system running.
You will also be required to conduct independent learning of state-of-the-art computer vision techniques and gain the knowledge to continuously improve the system performance.
Furthermore, you will need to evaluate the environmental and societal impacts of the solution you have built and recommend measures to minimise adverse outcomes.
KV5037 -
Computing Consultancy Project (Optional,20 Credits)
This module is a practical hands-on application of business principles.
It aims to put you – and a group of your peers - into the real-world situation of solving problems for businesses.
This will include contacting the client to negotiate, agree and confirm initial project requirements and then working towards a deliverable that is acceptable to the client within the given time frame.
This process requires the application and development of several key skills associated with project management and consultancy such as team organisation, working with others, planning and timekeeping.
Employers are looking for students with these transferable skills who can adapt and work as individuals and as members of a team in analysing computing problems and applying effective programming solutions.
The consultancy projects vary year-on-year many technology-based and, therefore, students are expected to use and develop their own expertise in this area.
At the end of the module, each group will be expected to present their findings in report format and to give a formal presentation for the benefit of the tutors and the client.
The projects will be supplemented by lectures and seminars introducing the skills required for such consultancy and project management work especially during the first third of the module.
KV5040 -
Data Visualization (Optional,20 Credits)
This module uses your computer programming skills to develop an understanding of the theory and practice of data visualization.
Data visualization is an essential part every data scientist’s toolkit.
Using a range of techniques and tools you will explore complex datasets and communicate the findings of your data analysis activities.
The wide availability of dashboards, programming languages such as R and Python, and interactive literate programming environments such as Jupyter Lab and Google Colab have made data visualization a much sought-after skill.
Employers seek people who can analyse their datasets and use visualization techniques to generate rich insights into the processes and phenomena from which the datasets were generated.
These insights are then used to create value for the employer by, for example, improving practice, generating new leads, identifying productivity challenges, and so forth.
You will work through a series of exercises, making use of Northumbria’s state-of-the-art computer labs to anaylse and visualize a range of datasets.
You will also consider how to minimise the environmental impact of data visualization, through the use of, for example, sustainable practices in data centres and using energy-efficient hardware.
Ethical issues around how data visualizations can be used will be explored.
The main assessment will be a data visualization assignment that will bring together your newly developed skills and techniques and apply them to a data analysis and visualization problem which will be written up in the form of a research article supported by the source code of your visualization solution.
KV5041 -
Digital Forensics Incident Response (Optional,20 Credits)
This module provides a broad and practical introduction to the fundamentals of digital security and forensics.
The module will foster your skills in problem solving by applying investigative skills within the strict boundaries of the law and in keeping with ethical and professional codes of practice.
Increasingly, employers are looking for network and cybersecurity professionals who understand how digital forensics can support the response to cybersecurity incidents, an area of digital forensics known as digital forensics incident response (DFIR).
This module will provide you with the knowledge and skills to understand this area of cyber security.
The theoretical material on digital security and forensics will be re-enforced through the analysis and discussion of case studies in seminar sessions as well as sessions on the use of security and digital forensics tools in the analysis of chosen case studies in lab-based practical sessions.
You will develop analytical and evaluative skills in the appropriate use of industry software for solving problems in a variety of DFIR environments and problem situations.
The ethical responsibilities of studying digital security and forensics and the need to address personal and professional integrity will be included in the module.
The main element in assessment (100%) will be a written report that will bring together all your new skills and techniques.
KV5046 -
Human-Centered AI (Core,20 Credits)
Artificial Intelligence (AI) is rapidly changing the role of technologies in decision making processes and transforming our everyday interactions with digital systems.
Human-Centered AI approaches seek to synthesize machine intelligences with human-centered thinking to conceptualise and design intelligent systems that seek to empower people and society.
This module will introduce you to Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence (HCAI), where we will explore human-centered design principles and methods to envision AI systems.
This module will not provide technical exploration on machine learning, statistical analysis or data modelling – instead it focuses on human-factors in the design of AI systems, and the interactions between Humans and AI (e.g., Human-AI collaboration, human-in-the-loop decision-making, interacting with chatbots and robots).
In this module you will specifically explore how to design, develop, critique interactive AI technologies from a human-centred perspective.
Indicative topics that we will cover include (but are not limited to): • User-centred design (UCD) lifecycle • Human-AI Interaction (including ethics, trust, interpretability, transparency, and fairness) • Understanding users, context, and social interactions, • Prototyping techniques for interface design: low and high fidelity Research-rich learning is heavily embedded in this module, by engaging with the latest HCAI, HCI and AI research; and conducting your own UCD research.
You will be taught by academics who have published extensively in the field of HCI and Intelligent Systems.
The module is designed to give you a knowledge and understanding of how to design and critically assess the human impact of AI system; while providing practical skills to enable you to design new Human-Centered AI systems.
KV5048 -
IT Service Management (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will give you an understanding of the principles, concepts and practices of IT Service Management and the associated areas of Project Management, Value Management, and Change Management.
These skills are essential to the successful use of Information Technology within organisations and are highly sought after by employers.
The module builds on the foundations of computing and business developed in the first year to focus on the methods and techniques used by IT professionals to manage the organisational change resulting from the implementation and use of Information Technology and Information Systems.
This includes an understanding of best practice frameworks such as ITIL.
Larger changes require the use of Projects and so this module will also provide an introduction to Project Management practices, techniques and terminologies including Project Specification, Monitoring and Controlling, and Risk Management.
The formative exercises in the workshops will include some group work but the final summative assessment is an individual assignment applying the concepts learnt within this module to a case study.
KV5049 -
Mobile & Web App Development (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will give you knowledge of the principles and practice of developing cross platform, progressive mobile web applications for location aware, networked devices, using relevant technologies, and of issues relating to their use, such as accessibility.
You will learn to design, develop and test mobile web applications.
‘Mobile Computing’ will provide you with knowledge and skills that are useful for later modules such as Computing Dissertation, as well as for a placement in your third year.
Employers are looking for skilled mobile web application developers who can analyse problems and apply solutions.
During ‘Mobile Computing’ you will work through a series of practical exercises, making use of Northumbria’s state-of-the-art computer labs.
The assessment will involve developing a mobile web application.
KV5054 -
Virtual and Augmented Reality (Optional,20 Credits)
This module introduces you to the exciting immersive interaction technologies of Virtual Reality (VR) and Augmented Reality (AR).
VR and AR are the core of the recent flourishing Metaverse applications, and they are rapidly growing to disrupt and innovate the way we work, study, and socialise in this decade.
Through this module, you will learn about the historical and recent development of VR and AR along with an understanding of the reality-virtuality continuum that helps you navigate through the landscape of immersive interaction technologies.
You will have access to the University’s state-of-the-art VR/AR hardware kits for your learning and be able to horn your skills of building creative VR/AR applications using software development toolkits (SDKs) and game engines.
In the process, you will also gain the ability to evaluate VR/AR designs using a comprehensive set of criteria and critique their impacts on our society, natural environment, and business world.
VR/AR are emerging technologies that attract employers and graduate employees together from a diverse range of industries, including but not limited to software engineering, graphics programming, artistic modelling, and human-computer interaction.
The VR/AR app development skills covered in this module can enhance your employability in those related fields.
KV5056 -
Data Mining and AI Methods (Core,20 Credits)
This module provides a robust foundation in data mining and artificial intelligence (AI), focusing on extracting implicit and valuable insights from data and building intelligent models to utilize these patterns that can be used in commercial, scientific, and other applications.
Combining theoretical and practical approaches, it covers key topics such as supervised and unsupervised learning, feature extraction, outlier detection, topic modelling, and handling large datasets.
You'll develop the skills to uncover patterns, find anomalies, and predict trends from real-world datasets, while considering the professional, ethical, social, and legal aspects of these technologies.
In addition, the module introduces AI methods and their underlying mathematical, statistical, and natural science theories, including concepts like problem-solving through searching, knowledge representation, reasoning, and machine learning.
It prepares you for advanced modules such as Machine Learning, Computing Placement, and the Computing Dissertation, while integrating industrial case studies to demonstrate real-world applications.
These include addressing societal and environmental challenges such as equity, diversity, inclusion (EDI), and green computing.
Together, these topics equip you with essential skills for solving complex, real-world problems.
In this module, you will walk through a series of typical data mining and AI approaches, making use of Northumbria’s state-of-the-art computer labs.
You will also engage with several simplified industry-relevant cases as part of your research-rich learning.
The assessment involves a project applying data mining algorithms to uncover patterns and developing AI algorithms to address computing problems in your chosen application domain.
LD5007 -
Contemporary Issues in Computing and Digital Technologies (Optional,20 Credits)
As a computing and digital technology student, it is imperative for you to maintain an up to date knowledge and understanding of contemporary research and technological developments relating to this ever evolving discipline.
The syllabus of this module will be shaped by current scholarly and practitioner research and technological developments relevant to computing and digital technologies.
This module particularly provides you opportunities to learn about developments in Computing and Digital Technologies both theoretical and technological as you prepare for your experiential learning semester where you will be working with a range of employers who are facing contemporary organisational challenges.
Indeed, the module will help you recognise, explore and develop knowledge and skills in areas of contemporary significance as they affect the wider computing and digital technologies discipline.
Potential topics covered (with a focus on their relevance towards your experiential learning) could include, for example: •	Technological developments, research and issues related with contemporary technologies such as Internet of Things (IoT), Blockchain, AI, Cloud and Immersive Technologies •	Cyber Security •	Decision Intelligence, Data Fabric and Big Data •	Contemporary social, ethical and sustainability issues.
The assessment will be a literature review (3000 words) on a contemporary topic in computing and digital technologies as agreed with your tutor.
LD5008 -
Developing Digital and Professional Competence (Optional,20 Credits)
As part of your experiential learning journey you will develop a range of digital and professional competences as outlined by the Computing Curricula 2020.
Computing and Digital Technologies is a wide field in which professionals can find themselves working within a number of different roles and specialisms, each requiring specific knowledge, skills and dispositions related to the tasks they perform.
This module builds on the knowledge, skills and dispositions developed so far to provide an opportunity for you to tailor the learning conducted within level 5 of your programme towards acquiring those competencies that will help you develop towards becoming a professional specialising in Computing with Technology/Computing with Cybersecurity Technology/Computing with Data Science and Big Data Technology/Computing with AI technology/Computing with IT Management.
As such this module is intended to develop your understanding of these essential digital and professional competences and your ability to recognise the need for and to enter into the process of personal and professional development.
Your experiential learning during your internship or consultancy or professional practice activity will specifically enable you to develop professional competencies such as being adaptable, collaborative, inventive, meticulous, passionate, proactive, professional, purpose driven, responsible, responsive and a self -directed learner to name but a few.
Additionally, you will also develop digital and technical competencies as supported through experiential learning activities.
These may include but not limited to systems modelling, systems architecture, computing systems fundamentals, software development, algorithms, programming, data and information management and cyber security.
This module will support you in demonstrating an increased self-awareness and self-understanding of your existing technical, management and wider professional competence, underpinned by use of theoretical concepts and models.
You will conduct self analysis of your competencies using and develop a plan You will also develop an understanding of management competence by engaging in self- and social-development processes; identifying personal and professional competence development needs; recording and evaluating their competence development and identifying continuing personal and professional competence development needs.
The module is assessed through a reflective journal in which you will present and review your competence development and implications for your future career aspirations.
LD5009 -
London Campus UG Internship (Optional,20 Credits)
This module aims to provide you with an experiential learning opportunity in a workplace setting that utilises skills and knowledge acquired during the first half of your study on the programme.
Indeed the Internship module is designed to deepen your knowledge and enhance employability in your specialist field.
Specifically you will develop resilience and flexibility as you adapt to a different learning environment, and gain a new perspective in comparison with your taught studies.
Computing and Digital Technologies is a wide discipline in which professionals can find themselves working within a number of different roles and specialisms, each requiring a specific technical skillset.
This module builds on the skills developed so far to provide an opportunity for you to tailor the learning conducted so far in your programme towards acquiring those skills that will help you develop towards becoming a professional specialising in Computing with Technology/Computing with Cybersecurity Technology/Computing with Data Science and Big Data Technology/Computing with AI technology/Computing with IT Management.
Indeed, the skills and knowledge demonstrated within this module will vary on an individual basis, dependent on the area of work experience gained through placement.
It is expected, however, that this is utilised as an opportunity to develop yourself within an area that is relevant to the BSc (Hons) Computing with subject specialisms, and which is an area of priority given your planned professional development.
This is an optional module, and you will be guided about the options available by your programme and career teams during semester 2 of your level 4 studies and again in semester one of your Level 5 studies.
You will confirm your option to choose either Internship or consultancy project or professional practice.
working with the careers team, module academic team and your personal tutor, you will conduct a skills audit to identify internship opportunities and roles that can be undertaken within the area of your subject specialism.
If you are a part time learner you may also be able to use your existing workplace.
Indeed, to support securing your internship you will attend workshops throughout your degree.
You will also have access to careers portal hosting a wealth of employability and careers development resources.
You will be given guidance on how to identify suitable internship opportunities.
The successful internship is subject to rigorous selectin process by the relevant employer.
The careers and employability team will provide guidance on CV writing, interview techniques and build an attractive employability profile.
While careers and employability team will assist you to find a suitable internship for you, however this is not guaranteed.
Your Internship will vary according to your specialist pathway programme of study and the host organisation, but each Internship undertaken will meet the following general requirements: •	that you will undertake work in an organisation that will last one semester in duration; •	that you will undertake work, where appropriate or necessary for professional body requirements, which are directly relevant to your programme of study.
•	that the Internship will be approved by the University Indicative syllabus: •	On the job training and work experience dependent on your role as an internee.
Some examples could include, but are not limited to: o	Cyber security, Data Analytics and Big Data, Machine Learning, AI, DevOps, Enterprise Architecture, Ethical Hacking, Networks, Business Analysis.
•	Refining a personal development plan.
•	Reflective frameworks for evaluation You will be encouraged to critically engage with outside practices, and to reflect on your educational development in the context of the challenges posed by an unfamiliar social, cultural and economic environment.
The assessment consists of evidenced based portfolio Report (2000 words), weighted at 70% and a Poster Presentation, weighted at 30%.
LD5010 -
London Campus Undergraduate Professional Practice (Optional,20 Credits)
This module is designed to develop your self-guided learning skills and knowledge and develop your own professional development needs in the context of your degree in Computing and Technology with subject specialisms of your choice.
Computing and Digital Technologies is a wide field in which professionals can find themselves working within a number of different roles and specialisms, each requiring a specific technical skillset.
This module builds on the skills developed so far to provide an opportunity for you to tailor the learning conducted within level 5 of your programme towards acquiring those skills that will help you develop towards becoming a professional specialising in Computing with Technology/Computing with Cybersecurity Technology/Computing with Data Science and Big Data Technology/Computing with AI technology/Computing with IT Management.
Working with the module academic team, your personal tutor, academic supervisor and careers team, you will conduct a skills analysis to identify relevant training that can be undertaken within the area of your subject specialism.
This training can take a number of forms, be it: •	Technical training delivered in the form of a skills bootcamp within the class environment or •	Structured online learning or •	A mini project •	Or, another appropriate form approved by the academic team.
Following completion of the training, the acquired skills will be focused towards a specified project or business challenge.
The skills and knowledge demonstrated within this module will vary on an individual basis, dependent on the area of professional development identified for study.
Indicative syllabus: •	Technical training dependent on identified need.
•	Methodologies to support system/software development/secure development (e.g.
Systems Engineering).
•	Reflective frameworks for evaluation.
LD5015 -
London Campus UG Group Consultancy Project (Optional,20 Credits)
The Advanced Practice Group UG Consultancy Project module is designed to deepen your knowledge and enhance employability in your specialist field.
You will develop resilience and flexibility as you adapt to a different learning environment and gain a new perspective in comparison with your taught studies.
The module will help you develop your abilities as a problem solver with valued investigative, theoretical and practical skills to implement a work-based group consultancy project.
Through this consultancy project, you will help develop hand-on experience of working on real life project that experience is directly transferrable to be utilised to the world of work after your graduation.
Computing and Digital Technologies is a wide discipline in which professionals can find themselves working within a number of different roles and specialisms, each requiring a specific technical skillset, knowledge and behaviours.
You will work as a group (3 to 5 students) on a complex technical or organisational problem or commercial opportunity for the length of a semester.
Your consultancy project will align to your degree specialism.
You will develop a client-oriented solution along with a management report and presentation alongside an individual literature review and a personal reflection.
You will be allocated academic supervisor who will support you throughout the semester.
You will have regular meetings with academic supervisor who will also organise meetings with client organisation.
The assessment for this module consists of a Group Consultancy Report (2,000 words) along with presentation weighted at 50% and an Individual Assignment (2000 words) comprising a literature review (1000 words) and Reflective Learning Statement (1000 words), weighted at 50%.
Indicative syllabus: •	The project scoping documentation will be shared to scope out the expectations of consultancy project at the start of the semester.
The examples could include, but are not limited to consultancy projects in the following areas of specialism: o	Cyber security, Data Analytics and Big Data, Machine Learning, AI, DevOps, Enterprise Architecture, Ethical Hacking, Networks, Business Analysis.
•	Reflective frameworks for evaluation Assessment on the module is designed to focus on the awareness of the impact of the time spent in an external learning environment, on your knowledge and understanding of the discipline.
You will be encouraged to critically engage with outside practices, and to reflect on your educational development in the context of the challenges posed by an unfamiliar social, cultural and economic environment.
KV5007 -
Work placement year (Optional,120 Credits)
This module is designed for all standard full-time undergraduate programmes within the Faculty of Engineering and Environment to provide you with the option to take a one year work placement as part of your programme.
You will be able to use the placement experience to develop and enhance appropriate areas of your knowledge and understanding, your intellectual and professional skills, and your personal value attributes, relevant to your programme of study, as well as accreditation bodies such as BCS, IET, IMechE, RICS, CIOB and CIBSE within the appropriate working environments.
Due to its overall positive impact on employability, degree classification and graduate starting salaries, the University strongly encourages you to pursue a work placement as part of your degree programme.
This module is a Pass/Fail module so does not contribute to the classification of your degree.
When taken and passed, however, the Placement Year is recognised both in your transcript as a 120 credit Work Placement Module and on your degree certificate.
Your placement period will normally be full-time and must total a minimum of 40 weeks.
KV5008 -
KV6013 -
Computing Project (Core,40 Credits)
This is your major final year project module where you will undertake a substantial individual practical computing project related to your programme of study.
You will become knowledgeable in your chosen topic including important concepts and literature.
You will use and further develop skills learnt elsewhere in your programme and acquire new skills and expertise to carry out the practical computing work.
These could be technical skills such as a new programming language, experimental methods, and/or the use of statistical techniques to analyse your results.
You will also acquire or further develop your professional skills including communication skills (both oral presentation and report writing), literature searching and review, research methods and design, project management and personal time management.
Both the technical and professional skills developed through the project module will enhance your career and employability competencies.
You will have the freedom to choose a topic of your interest or select one provided by academic staff.
Your project must include you undertaking practical work of some sort using computing/IT technology.
This is most frequently achieved by the creation of an artefact as the focus for covering all or part of an implementation lifecycle.
However, there are a diversity of approaches you can take.
For example, you could choose to conduct a more product-focused project where the main deliverable is a product of some kind such as a piece of software, a game, a computer network, an information strategy.
Or it could be a more investigative and/or research-focused project such as a digital forensics investigation, a comparison analysis of AI algorithms, a user experience investigation.
Or your project could be a mix of both such as building a simulated network to investigate security vulnerabilities and mitigation schemes, creating a prototype to test the effectiveness of a digital technology.
Projects based solely on literature review activity and/or user/market surveys are not acceptable.
You could also work with an external enterprise client to create a product in terms of their business requirements.
KV6014 -
Computing Group Project (Core,20 Credits)
In this Module you will work in a small group of your peers to undertake a computing group project.
Each Project will involve the specification, design, implementation, documentation and demonstration of a technical artefact, showing your ability to synthesise information, ideas and practices to provide a quality solution together with an evaluation of that solution.
This module is intended to bring together many of the concepts and skills learned in other modules prior to this point in your studies.
Collaboration and teamwork, the capability to work with other people, from a range of cultures, to achieve common goals, for example through group work, group projects and group presentations is a key set of understanding and skills that are highly valued by employers.
This Module seeks to equip you with these very skills as well as deepen an awareness/sensitivity to diversity in terms of people and cultures.
Moreover, the Module will encourage networking with peers and horizon scanning to identify opportunities to advance digital capabilities and create computing solutions that seek to create a better society.
In particular the module will revisit how computing products and services increasingly impact on sustainability issues.
KV6015 -
Data Analytics (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will give you an essential foundation to focus on how to conduct statistical analysis and interpret various measures correctly.
You will learn to think about the process of examining data from the “ground up”, adopting pragmatic approaches e.g., how to investigate and explore data, data structures and visualisations.
‘Data Analytics’ will prepare you for the study of the computational principles, methods, and systems for extracting and structuring knowledge from data.
It will also prepare you for the application and use of those principles.
For example, large data sets are now generated by almost every activity in science, society, and commerce - ranging from molecular biology to social media, from sustainable energy to health care.
You will explore methods to conduct efficient and pragmatic approaches to ensure you have translational skills.
During ‘Data Analytics’ you will work through a series of exercises, making use of Northumbria’s state-of-the-art computer labs.
Your learning will be research-rich by providing you opportunities to link with active research groups tackling real world problems to prepare you for life beyond Northumbria.
The main element in assessment (100%) will be a final assignment that will bring together all your new skills and techniques.
KV6016 -
Data Security and Governance (Core,20 Credits)
This module is set in the context of today’s society and the organisations within.
Social behaviour, often in the virtual environment, creates a range of ethical issues centering on information security and governance.
In addition to exploring these social and ethical issues, legal and regulatory frameworks that have been developed in recent years to try to address these issues are examined.
You will also learn about security in organisations and will be introduced to a range of common threats and countermeasures.
Topics include basic definitions of terminology alongside practical and theoretical frameworks to help you identify key governance and security issues and explore potential preventative measures.
You will be covering terms such as ‘governance’ and ‘security’, frameworks which include the information life cycle, regulations and guidelines relating to professional conduct, privacy and data protection,
KV6018 -
Evolutionary Computation (Optional,20 Credits)
Evolutionary algorithms (EAs) are a class of optimisation techniques that are inspired by natural evolution.
They are well-suited to problems for which no specific solution method exists, or where other methods perform badly, and they have been used very successfully in areas as diverse as finance, engineering, architecture and logistics.
In this module, you will learn about the fundamental principles of EAs, understand how (and why) they are used, and develop your own EA for a specific problem.
EAs are used extensively in business, industry, and scientific research, and the ability to analyse a problem and develop an EA to solve it demonstrates a number of sought-after key skills.
This module is research-driven, and is taught by academics who have published extensively in the field of evolutionary computation.
You will benefit from access to up-to-date knowledge, codebases and datasets.
The main component of assessment is a development assignment (70%), which will bring together the skills and techniques that you will acquire during the course of the module.
Indicative list of topics: •	Natural and artificial evolution •	Representation schemes and search operators for optimisation •	Constrained and multi-objective optimisation •	Evaluation of evolutionary algorithm performance •	Theoretical foundations •	State-of-the-art applications
KV6021 -
Machine Learning (Core,20 Credits)
This module will provide you with knowledge and understanding of traditional, as well as modern and advanced machine learning techniques, and theoretical foundations of the algorithms, and enable you to gain practical experiences for applying these techniques to solve problems in areas such as Natural Language Processing, Image Processing, Medical Diagnosis, Speech Recognition.
‘Machine Learning’ aims to improve your employability by enabling you to gain a broad range of skills including analytical, problem solving, creativity, conducting research by addressing legal, ethical, social issues properly.
In particular, you will cover topics such as: • Supervised machine learning techniques and classifiers • Unsupervised machine learning techniques, clustering • Feature extraction (supervised and unsupervised) • Ensemble models • Modern and advanced models • Application of machine learning techniques in e.g.
Natural Language Processing (NLP), Image Processing, Medical Diagnosis • Legal, ethical and social issues in your applications, and techniques for security.
KV6022 -
Robotics & Automation (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will give you a deep understanding of the implementation and programming of robot technologie as autonomous systems.
You will have practical experience with using the math underlying robot programming and design, including kinematics, probability and geometry.
You will be taught about the components, sensor arrays and programming frameworks that make up a modern robotic system.
You will research and develop a small robot that is designed for a specific industrial application, for example a warehouse stock and material transport robot, a localisation and mapping robot or a driverless vehicle.
Each implementation of a robotic system will use main control architecture, state of the art sensor fusion techniques that enable localisation, obstacle avoidance, vision algorithms, path planning or navigation.
The module will also cover emergent ethical and safety issues related to robotics and automation.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-artificial-intelligence-uusari1:
UCAS Code G407
Discover more about life in Newcastle and studying at Northumbria.
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study BSc (Hons) Artificial Intelligence.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-artificial-intelligence-dtfari6:
Northumbria University’s master’s in Artificial Intelligence provides an exciting opportunity to take your career into the rapidly developing area of AI.
We welcome applications from candidates of any background, whether you wish to specialise your existing knowledge, or want to completely change your career direction.
This course will introduce you to the fundamentals of Artificial Intelligence and provide you with a holistic understanding of digital intelligence and its effects on society.
To give you an extra edge in today’s competitive job market, in addition to your current expertise in various fields, the course explores key concepts, principles and theories of relevance to Artificial Intelligence professionals.
You will be given the opportunity to engage in real world problems, evaluate options and apply professionally specific knowledge to resolve them.
For our first cohort enrolled in 2020, we have provided all our students the opportunity to obtain the Azure AI Fundamental Certification through our partnership with Microsoft.
As part of this Artificial Intelligence master’s degree, you will develop a strong understanding of the capability of AI and how best to utilise existing AI tools, allowing you to successfully implement this in practice.
You will learn to identify requirements before the application of AI, and become aware of the implications that these tools have from a governance and operational perspective.
By the end of this programme, you will have engaged with various research activities.
This will lead up to the planning and execution of a significant research project, which poses new questions and creates understanding.
Through this, and the rest of your learning, you will develop a range of skills that will enhance your ability to communicate outcomes and knowledge to professional and academic audiences in appropriate formats.
This master’s course is an excellent option if you hope to pursue further research into the area of AI, including PhD study.
Opportunities for employment in this area are vast.
The demand for AI experts continues to grow, so graduates will have high earnings potential.
Upon completion of this course, you will be able to adapt and advise on the practical application of AI tools and techniques in national and international organisations, across multiple industries, both nationally and internationally.
The Wubbleyou Scholarship
You will be provided with a wide range of learning opportunities in a challenging and stimulating environment.
You will learn via various learning methods, including lectures, seminars, tutorials, practical’s, research, case studies, guest/expert input and task based learning, in guided and independent study.
You will also develop your research and project management skills in the form of your MSc project – a self-directed research project based on an artificial intelligence related subject of your choosing.
You will be part of a dynamic learning environment with an expert team of staff teaching theoretical and practical research skills.
This includes as problem solving skills, self-directed learning and communication skills.
Learn more about the staff who will be teaching on this course.
Dr Yingke Chen
Honglei Li
Dirk van der Linden
You will have 24/7 term-time access to Northumbria’s library, which has over half a million print books as well as half a million electronic books available online.
The University Library has advanced search software and database tools that allow you to use a single search box to get fast results from across a wide and reliable range of academic resources.
Throughout the duration of your course you will have access to our state-of-the-art facilities including our new Computer and Information Sciences building, this gives you access to dedicated IT systems and is available evenings and weekends.
Virtual Tour
Take a look around
AI research at Northumbria has been widely applied to different industries with the financial and technical support from various funders.
Cased studies and other teaching materials have been developed based on such real-world experience to enhance the Artificial Intelligence MSc course.
Northumbria University has launched a pioneering centre of excellence in responsible artificial intelligence (AI) research and expertise.
Find out more.
Click through to discover our current research areas.
Computer Vision & Artificial Intelligence
View all Department Research
Jobs in this area span a number of different roles within the health, automotive, business, finance, and manufacturing industries.
Particular careers include data scientists, AI developers, and consultants, to name but a few.
Applicants should normally have: A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree in any subject.
International qualifications: If you have studied a non UK qualification, you can see how your qualifications compare to the standard entry criteria, by selecting the country that you received the qualification in, from our country pages.
Visit www.northumbria.ac.uk/yourcountry English Language requirements : International applicants are required to have a minimum overall IELTS (Academic) score of 6.5 with 5.5 in each component (or approved equivalent*).
KF7006 -
Object Oriented Programming (Core,20 Credits)
This module is designed to develop your knowledge, understanding and skills in object oriented programming and program design concepts, using an object first approach.
Specifically, you will learn how to design, implement, test and document programs and will gain practical programming experience by solving small scale problems.
In addition, you will cover the need for standards and the principles of quality.
In particular, the syllabus of the module will cover topics such as: • Programming: simple data types and calculations; classes, objects, inheritance, interfaces, polymorphism; methods, constructors; parameter passing; arrays and strings; simple collection classes; statements for selection and iteration; exception handling; file and stream handling; APIs • GUI programming : event driven programming, GUI components • Tools: use of a compiler and associated Integrated Development Environment (IDE).
Documentation tools.
• Program testing: purpose of testing, black box and white box testing.
Use of tool support.
Since the module is intended for graduates from disciplines other than Computing, no previous programming experience is assumed.
KF7011 -
Systems Analysis & Design with UML (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about methods of analysing and designing information systems using object-oriented methods.
You will gain an understanding of the general IT system development lifecycle and the activities and personnel roles applicable at each lifecycle stage, and of the concepts of professional standards and codes for systems analysis and design projects.
This will include learning how to specify system requirements and use systems analysis and design techniques to develop workable solutions to business information system problems.
You will be learn and apply an object-oriented approach to develop information systems projects using the techniques of the Unified Modelling Language (UML) - the leading notation used for specifying systems.
This will include advanced modelling concepts and techniques that are used to build complex object models.
In particular, the syllabus of the module will cover topics such as: • Information systems: information systems to support organisational types and objectives; strategic, tactical, operational and control systems • Systems development activities and lifecycles: the systems development lifecycle, rationale for 'staged' system development and the key stages, roles and deliverables; the role of prototyping and iterative development; Unified System Development Process (USDP) or another lifecycle for object-oriented development • Systems investigation techniques: the key areas of system investigation and applicable fact-finding techniques - interviewing, document examination, observation etc.
• Systems specification techniques using an object-oriented approach: defining the problem statement and structuring it through Use Case Modelling; going from Use Cases to a first-cut behavioural model (communication diagrams) with associated class diagrams; basic modelling syntax.
• Object oriented design: object model-objects, classes, inheritance, generalisation, links and associations; purpose of design; interaction modelling (sequence diagrams) and state machines in design; specifying operations with activity diagrams; design patterns.
• Class and method design: classes, objects, and messages • Data Management Layer Design: relationship database, object-oriented database design, data access design and manipulation classes • Human-Computer Interaction Layer Design: including principles for user interface design, content awareness, user experience, etc • Physical layer design: including elements of the physical architecture layer, architectural components, infrastructure design, etc • Construction: including programming management, documentation, and testing • Professional codes of practice: the need for professional standards within analysis and design; British Computer Society, the Chartered Institute for IT codes.
MSc Computer Science & Digital Technologies Project (Core,60 Credits)
KV7003 -
AI and Digital Technology (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn various digital technologies that will work with AI for various real-world applications, and investigate how these technologies can transform the business, finance, manufacturing, etc.
The module will cover the following key topics, such as: •	Digital transformation technology •	Artificial intelligence •	Machine learning •	Big data •	Internet of Things (IoT) •	Blockchain •	Robotics •	Clouds •	Cyber security and privacy •	Industry 4.0
KV7004 -
AI Studio (Core,20 Credits)
The aim of the module is to provide you with knowledge and understanding of artificial intelligence techniques and digital signal and image processing systems, including how to solving problems in these areas.
In particular, you will cover topics such as: •	Introduction to artificial intelligence •	Supervised machine learning techniques and classifiers •	Shallow learning and Deep learning neural network techniques •	Optimisation algorithms for general neural networks •	Unsupervised machine learning techniques •	Introduction to digital signal, image and computer vision fundamentals •	Applications of state-of-the-art supervised and unsupervised machine learning techniques with real datasets
KV7005 -
Intelligent User Interfaces (Core,20 Credits)
At the cutting edge of interactive technologies we find intelligent systems.
Artificial Intelligence (AI) increasingly allows interactive systems to work with autonomy, making decisions for users, carrying out tasks for them, and prompting input.
As systems become increasingly intelligent, the challenges of designing interfaces that are transparent, understandable and accountable to the users become harder.
In this module you will study the human factors considerations of designing, using and evaluating intelligent user interfaces (IUIs).
You will study a number of application areas of IUIs, and will practice the design and evaluation skills of the Human-Computer Interaction professional to specifically prototype and evaluate an IUI in class.
Taking a human-centred perspective throughout, indicative topics that will be addressed will include (but are not limited to): IUI Design and Prototyping Techniques Voice User Interfaces / Natural Language Systems Agent-Based Interactions / Chatbots Recommender Systems Human-Robot Interaction (Industrial and Personal) Job/Function Allocation AI and Secure Systems Vehicle Automation / Intelligent Transport Home Automation Smart Cities IUI Ethics

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-artificial-intelligence-technology-with-advanced-practice--london-subject-to-validation-dtsait6:
Fee UK/Home Fee: £11,000 (25/26) International Fee: £20,950 (25/26)
Duration 1 year (up to 2 years with advanced practice)
1 year (up to 2 years with advanced practice) Full-time classroom
The IMF (International Monetary Fund) estimates that – if AI is fully embraced – it can boost productivity by as much as 1.5 percentage points a year.
If fully realised, these gains could be worth up to an average of £47 billion to the UK each year over a decade (Gov.uk, 2025).
With AI on the rise, job roles in this sector are also increasing – topping out the list of the 25 fastest-growing jobs or roles in the UK was artificial intelligence engineer, and AI researchers made the top ten (The Independent, 2025).
MSc Artificial Intelligence Technology programme is focused on developing your abilities as a digital leader, capable of identifying and implementing technical solutions to deliver future improvements to your organisation.
To accelerate your learning, you will be exposed to theories and principles relating to the design, development and testing of software using AI.
Students will learn programming with R and how to conceptualise software requirements into software architectural patterns.
Students will get insight into IoT peripherals, IoT data analytics and an overall grasp of how to incorporate local machine learning (ML) using Python Programming.
You will also be exposed to the fundamental concepts, principles, technologies, and techniques to train and deploy distributed machine learning models using a cloud-based platform such as Google Cloud or AWS.
You will be able to apply this knowledge and skills in your context, and critically analyse the implementation and make recommendations for future improvements.
You will additionally develop an understanding of the typology of innovation, how firms leverage internal and external resources to compete in the digital environment, and how to plan for innovation in any organisation.
This Masters programme has been designed to ensure that graduates will be equipped with in-demand skills to work in a range of roles in the IT industry.
Graduates can also progress to academic or research-orientated careers.
The qualification aims to accelerate your skills and competence in a range of job roles, including roles in leadership and management in IT as well as titles such as:
Upon successfully completing your course, you may undertake further professional development and training through Professional Pathways programmes.
These are offered to our graduates for free, from our partner, QA.
Find out more information on Professional Pathways and your eligibility .
The Advanced Practice version of this course offers you a valuable opportunity to deepen your knowledge and enhance employability in your specialist field.
This will be through completing additional 60 credit Advanced Practice module after when you have completed 120 credits of taught modules.
This module will provide experiential learning opportunities .
These can either be a 12-week work placement, group consultancy project, research group project, 12-week Professional Skills Practice, 12-week Enterprise Start Up or 12-week Multidisciplinary Innovation project .
The Advanced Practice programmes are structured as below:
Applicants who do not meet the academic requirements but who do have substantial experience of working in a business organisation and/or possess a relevant professional qualification will also be considered.
If you are unsure if you meet the entry criteria, please contact us and our team will be able to advise you.
Pathway courses and support for international students Masters Foundation programme Alternatively, you may also be eligible for one of our Pre-Masters courses .
These are pathway programmes designed specifically for students who require additional support to meet the entry requirements of their chosen Masters degree.
Pre-Sessional English and Study Skills If you have IELTS 5.5 – 6.0, you may be eligible to join our Pre-Sessional English before starting this programme.
This programme will help you develop language skills in a content-based approach to learning involving critical thinking, questioning, discussion, reflection and analysis.
Masters Foundation programme
Alternatively, you may also be eligible for one of our Pre-Masters courses .
Pre-Sessional English and Study Skills
If you have IELTS 5.5 – 6.0, you may be eligible to join our Pre-Sessional English before starting this programme.
Information Governance and Cyber Security In this module, you will learn about the information governance and cyber security principles that underpin the management of an organisation’s information assets.
You will critically analyse the key concepts, theories, standards and frameworks of information governance and security, including risk management.
It will enable you to evaluate an organisation’s current approach to information governance and cyber security.
You will have the expertise to advise on the design and implementation of an appropriate strategy for managing an organisation’s information (ensuring all assets meet legal, regulatory, organisational and/or societal needs for information governance and cybersecurity).
Leadership in a Digital Age In this module, you will develop new knowledge and skills in leadership in a digital context.
You will conduct a self-analysis of your own leadership and team management competencies and identify strengthens and areas of improvements.
Leadership and team management capabilities are essential for your career development.
They enable you to become competent at the visioning, development and deployment of technological strategies and responses to challenges and opportunities in complex operating environments.
Programming for AI This module aims to provide you with in-depth knowledge and a critical understanding of AI-based algorithms and solutions.
You will learn programming with R or a similar language and learn how to conceptualise software requirements into software architectural patterns and develop software using AI.
You will gain an understanding of various artificial intelligence algorithms, including statistical learning and machine learning models for data analysis.
There will be a variety of use cases for implementing algorithms, visual perception and techniques and methods for different scenarios.
In addition to technical skills (e.g.
statistical programming), you will also develop non-technical skills, including data-driven decision-making, critical thinking and communication skills.
You will develop hands-on experience with tools and techniques illustrating principles that can be used in a wide range of areas outside of artificial intelligence.
Contemporary Computing and Digital Technologies This module offers an immersive journey into contemporary computing topics essential for addressing complex challenges in both business and society.
Through a diverse range of experiential activities, you will deepen your understanding and skills and cultivate innovative thinking to tackle real-world problems effectively.
The module commences with a residential activity designed to give you the opportunity to develop your leadership and team skills in order to complete a real project via a hackathon or other similar activities.
As such you will go on to tackle a problem defined by a real business and use an applied research approach to work in a team and demonstrate leadership competencies .
This module empowers you to not only acquire theoretical knowledge but also to cultivate practical skills and competencies essential for success in the dynamic field of computing.
By engaging in experiential activities such as (virtual) hackathons, boot camps, competitions, and conferences, you will emerge as agile, adaptive professionals ready to make meaningful contributions to business and society .
This module is designed to enable you to rapidly develop new knowledge and skills and apply them to their business and technical challenges.
Artificial Intelligence for IoT The module aims to provide you with a critical review of IoT based interconnected devices using AI functions and how this can benefit operational needs and demands to an organisation.
This module offers exciting learning opportunities where you will learn to architect IoT peripherals, cybersecurity, network connectivity, IoT data analytics and an overall understanding of how to incorporate local machine learning (AI) using Python Programming.
You will also learn AI/IoT based environments including how you will build IoT systems design using a diverse range of implementation techniques and methods.
The module will further provide opportunities to appreciate the role that ethics, sustainability, privacy and security within the context of the use of Artificial Intelligence and its connectivity with IoT based systems in organisations.
Machine Learning on Cloud The module aims to provide you with a critical review of the theory and practice of machine learning on the cloud platform.
You will critically analyse the capabilities of machine learning and apply its methods and techniques to discover patterns for trends analysis.
The module will introduce you to neural networks and their implementation.
You will train and deploy distributed machine learning models using cloud-based platforms such as Google Cloud or AWS or Microsoft Azure, or similar.
You will develop skills on how to apply supervised, unsupervised and reinforcement learning using cloud platforms and tools such as TensorFlow or similar.
The module will provide opportunities to critically evaluate the role of ethics and sustainability within the context of the use of cloud-based machine learning application.
Professional Practices in Computing and Digital Technologies Project This module is a 60-credit module which will be delivered across your programme (3 semesters) and is designed to build your confidence and capabilities as a postgraduate student, researcher and have the graduate skills to progress into high skilled employment or doctoral study.
Semester 1 and 2: Academic and Employability Skills The main purpose of this strand is to develop your academic confidence including using the wide range of learning resources available to you, academic reading, writing and study effectiveness.
You will also develop your ability to analyse and use the source material and develop your language and communication skills to a higher level.
In addition, through the learning tasks, a number of employability skills are developed, including life-long learning, professional and career development, communication skills, intercultural competence, collaboration, teamworking, digital and information literacy, critical thinking, ethical practice, reflection, self-management, decision-making, problem-solving, planning and organising.
You will also develop employability skills (based on 7i graduate outcomes) and be encouraged to attend additional careers and employability workshops organised by our Careers Team.
Semester 2: Research Methods The research methods strand will develop your knowledge and understanding of learning about identifying a business problem, undertaking a critical literature review, designing appropriate research methodology and developing a research proposal that will lead into the dissertation stage.
Semester 3 This will be a culmination of your knowledge and understanding of your Master’s degree in your chosen discipline.
Specifically, you will work alongside an academic tutor to complete a major research project.
This will include attending individual and group project supervision and guidance sessions in which you will develop further the skill required to complete a computing-related research enquiry.
You will learn how to identify a problem from your chosen pathways of study (e.g.
Computing and Technologies) and then how to design and implement an appropriate research methodology to answer your research questions and fulfil your research objectives.
In this module, you will learn about the information governance and cyber security principles that underpin the management of an organisation’s information assets.
In this module, you will develop new knowledge and skills in leadership in a digital context.
This module aims to provide you with in-depth knowledge and a critical understanding of AI-based algorithms and solutions.
This module offers an immersive journey into contemporary computing topics essential for addressing complex challenges in both business and society.
The module aims to provide you with a critical review of IoT based interconnected devices using AI functions and how this can benefit operational needs and demands to an organisation.
The module aims to provide you with a critical review of the theory and practice of machine learning on the cloud platform.
This module is a 60-credit module which will be delivered across your programme (3 semesters) and is designed to build your confidence and capabilities as a postgraduate student, researcher and have the graduate skills to progress into high skilled employment or doctoral study.
Semester 1 and 2: Academic and Employability Skills
The main purpose of this strand is to develop your academic confidence including using the wide range of learning resources available to you, academic reading, writing and study effectiveness.
Semester 2: Research Methods
The research methods strand will develop your knowledge and understanding of learning about identifying a business problem, undertaking a critical literature review, designing appropriate research methodology and developing a research proposal that will lead into the dissertation stage.
Semester 3
This will be a culmination of your knowledge and understanding of your Master’s degree in your chosen discipline.
The modules you will study do not require you to purchase additional textbooks although we recommend you allow an additional £200-250 for the duration of your studies should you choose to purchase any additional reading materials.
Find out more about the services available to you on our Student Support page Access to online resources, including 24/ 7 Library with over 400,000 e-books and 50,000 electronic journals.
Scholarships and bursaries for international students If you are an international student and choose to study this programme, you may be eligible for either bursary or academic scholarship.
All of our scholarships and bursaries are automatically applied when we process your application and our team will be able to confirm your eligibility.
Scholarships and bursaries Payment plans for self-funded students If you need to spread the cost of your tuition, you may be eligible for our payment plan.
Payment plans Government Loan for Masters study If you are a UK or Home student, you may be eligible for a postgraduate loan of up to £10,000+ from the UK Government.
Click here to find out more about the loan and whether you are eligible to receive it.
If you are an international student and choose to study this programme, you may be eligible for either bursary or academic scholarship.
If you need to spread the cost of your tuition, you may be eligible for our payment plan.
If you are a UK or Home student, you may be eligible for a postgraduate loan of up to £10,000+ from the UK Government.
Enquire now to find out more information about the course, studying with us, the application process, and to ask any other questions you may have.
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study 1 year MSc Artificial Intelligence Technology .
Please note: For 2025 & 2026 applications you will be redirected to the Northumbria website to select which intake you would like to apply for.
We strongly recommend that you submit your application as early as possible to allow you to complete all of the preparations needed to study your programme.
After receiving an offer it can take time to arrange your finances and apply for your visa (if required) and it is important that you arrive in good time to enrol onto your course.
As well as the 1 year MSc modules, you will have the chance to study one of the following :
This module aims to provide you with an experiential learning opportunity where you will work on a group consultancy project that utilises skills and knowledge acquired during the taught part of your study programme.
You will work as a team of 3-5 students on a project for a real-world organisation and be supported by an experienced academic supervisor throughout your project.
You will learn to work independently and develop resilience and flexibility as you adapt to a different learning environment, and gain a new perspective through comparison with your taught studies.
The module will help you develop your abilities as a problem solver with valued investigative, theoretical and practical skills to implement a work-based consultancy project.
Through this consultancy project, you will help develop hands-on experience of working on a real-life project that experience is directly transferrable to be utilised to the world of work after your graduation.
The Advanced Practice Research Project module is designed to deepen your knowledge and enhance your research skills in your specialist field.
The aim of this module is to provide you with an opportunity to work on a research study that utilises skills and knowledge acquired during the taught part of your study programme.
You will be supported by an experienced academic supervisor who would provide guidance at different stages of this research project.
A high level of participation will be required from you to undertake this research project.
Independent learning will help you focus on identifying and pursuing areas of interest in relation to the research study or by providing deeper/broader knowledge and understanding of the subject through a range of learning activities that might include extended reading, reflection, research etc and application of these to your research-based project.
The module will help you develop your abilities as a researcher with valued investigative, data analytical, theoretical and practical skills to implement a research project.
This Advanced Practice module is designed to deepen your knowledge and enhance employability in your specialist field.
This module aims to provide you with an experiential learning opportunity in a workplace setting that utilises skills and knowledge acquired during the taught part of your study programme.
You will develop resilience and flexibility as you adapt to a different learning environment, and gain a new perspective through comparison with your taught studies.
You will be allocated an academic supervisor who would provide you with support throughout your internship.
Assessment on the module is designed to focus on the awareness of the impact of the time spent in an external learning environment, on your knowledge and understanding of the discipline.
This module is designed to develop your self-guided learning and professional skills needs in the context of your postgraduate degree.
Indeed, Computing and Digital Technology is a wide field in which professionals can find themselves working within several different roles and specialisms, each requiring a specific specialist skillset.
This module builds on the knowledge and skills developed so far and provides you with an opportunity to further develop the specific professional skills you need to maximise your employability with the support of a careers and employability coach.
Idea people are in great demand either as entrepreneurs or intrapreneurs.
Indeed, ideas can be based on existing products/services or a brand new product/service.
As governments around the world encourage enterprise innovation to drive new skills and create new industries and/or invigorate existing industries with different business approaches, often based on technology changes, enterprise business start-up activities are a growing requirement of to raise skills,  improve living standards, improve country competitiveness and productivity and maintain and gain new competitive advantages.
You will learn through a workshop and studio-based learning model that combines access to the industry-leading practical and academic knowledge base, online support and engagement with your module tutors.
Lectures will be used to introduce key topics such as design thinking, innovation and components of a business plan and how to marshall these components to deliver an effective business plan using a research-led approach.
These lectures will be followed by practical studio-based workshop activities in which you will apply the methods, techniques and frameworks of analysis of the business environment, business model canvas, and how these models influence the business plan outcomes and implementation.
This module complements and enhances your postgraduate degree with a distinctive experience in which you will engage in a module designed to enable you to acquire and develop creative and innovative design-inspired study skills.
As part of our range of advanced practice options, this module will involve a semester of taught study in London.
You will gain a vital real-world design-informed experience by means of London-based study of city-based issues, industry site-visits and professional speaker input, and comparative work on differing urban, technological, and social experiences and the formulation of innovative solutions.
You will gain extensive additional further skills, knowledge and experience that will considerably enhance your employability and professional awareness and ability .
Contact time in class – typically in lectures, seminars and tutorials Access to facilities, including computers, on-campus Wi-Fi, printers, vending machines, quiet study spaces The support of our Careers & Employment Service helps you to become more employable, secure placements and run workshops Academic support – our ACE Team run multiple sessions on academic writing, presenting, exam techniques throughout the semester, as well as 1-2-1 appointments and drop-in sessions Student support services such as our Ask4Help Service.
Scholarships and bursaries for international students If you are an international student and choose to study the full-time programme, you will be eligible for either our programme bursary or a country bursary, whichever is greater.
High performing students may be eligible for an academic scholarship in addition.
Depending on the country you are from, you may be eligible for one of our country bursaries and/scholarships to help finance your studies.
Payment plans Government Loan for Masters study If you are a UK/Home student, you may be eligible for a postgraduate loan of up to £10,000+ from the UK Government.
Postgraduate Loan
If you are an international student and choose to study the full-time programme, you will be eligible for either our programme bursary or a country bursary, whichever is greater.
If you are a UK/Home student, you may be eligible for a postgraduate loan of up to £10,000+ from the UK Government.
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study MSc Artificial Intelligence Technology with Advanced Practice .
UK/Home Fee: £11,000 (25/26) International Fee: £20,950 (25/26)
Minimum 2:2 honours degree, or equivalent in any subject
IELTS 6.5, with no single element below 5.5 or equivalent
1 year (up to 2 years with advanced practice)
January, May, September
UK/Home Fee: £14,000 International Fee: £23,950
Advanced practice
16-24 months
Not available

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/arts-dtfaar6:
The Arts MRes course offers you the opportunity to undertake a closely-supervised piece of original research within the broad spectrum of visual and material culture, including Fine Art practice, historical or theoretical studies in art, design, architecture, fashion, film, television, visual digital media or performance, while developing the skills to become an independent, critical, and innovative thinker, maker, and Arts researcher.
You will undertake a specialist research project, based upon your own focused proposal, which may be subject-specific or span multiple arts disciplines.
The centrepiece of the Arts MRes is an 20000-word Dissertation or body of practical work  +  10000-word Dissertation.
This is supported by a framework of three modules, which provide expert knowledge and understanding of appropriate research methods to employ in your project, the wider critical contexts relating to your subject, and how to develop and communicate your research.
The programme will enable you to position your research within a wider scholarly field, and furnish you with professional skills such as communication, self-management and planning, preparing you for doctoral study or further career advancement.
Research Project Proposal Guidelines
In addition to the Personal Statement required in the online application form, you should attach a 500–1000-word outline of your proposed research project for the programme.
Consider that the research you propose will ultimately be presented as either a 20,000-word written dissertation or, in the case of practice-based students, a body of design practice and a 10,000-word dissertation.
For more information read our application guide.
Department Northumbria School of Design, Arts and Creative Industries, Arts
EXCITING NEW CULTURAL PARTNERSHIP
NEW INNOVATIVE PARTNERSHIP WITH THE BRITISH FILM INSTITUTE.
FIND OUT MORE HERE.
The Arts MRes is based around self-directed study, but you are supported by a framework of four modules.
The Research Methods and Critical Contexts modules in semester one are based around a series of seminars, and encourage the discussion and exchange of ideas between students with focused research interests, but shared intellectual investment in the themes, concepts, practices and methodologies of visual and material culture.
For each module, assessment is through written assignments totalling 6,000 words (30 credits per module).
The semester two Research Development module is shared with students from other MRes courses in Humanities and Social Sciences, with whom you collaborate in all elements of organising (structuring, fundraising, marketing and publicity) and staging a cross-disciplinary symposium.
You are assessed on a presentation at that symposium, a 3000 word written paper, and a 1500 word written reflection upon the organising process (totalling 30 credits).
Across semesters two and three the Dissertation module supports the development of  your Arts MRes final project; a 20,000 word dissertation, or significant body of practical art work supported by a 10,000 word dissertation (90 credits).
How will I be assessed?
The majority of summative assessment on the MRes Arts is through written assignments.
For art practice-based students, there is also the option of the submission of a body of practice work for the final Dissertation assessment.
For each of these, written feedback will be provided in writing within 20 working days of submission.
However, the programme also aims to develop the way you communicate your research in verbal and visual forms.
So as well as a formal presentation in Research Development module, each module requires you to present your progress and ideas to the seminar group at key points, for formative assessment, discussion and verbal feedback from your tutors and fellow students.
Your supervisors will be academic specialists in visual
and material culture with in-depth knowledge of the critical issues relating to
your topic, hands-on experience in appropriate research methodologies, and a
highly regarded reputation of publishing scholarly materials, working with
cultural institutions and curating arts events.
Arts staff have specialist
knowledge in art and design practice and theory, film and television studies, curating, arts
festivals, landscape, architecture, fashion, socially engaged arts, performance,
and digital arts practices.
Furthermore, if your project spans disciplines, your
supervisory team may include staff members from different departments.
Whatever
your interests, you will be supported by the expertise of highly
research-active staff whose work is of recognised excellence.
Rupert Ashmore
Catherine Glover
Kate Sloan
The modules themselves are based around seminars which
encourage discussion and the exchange of ideas between researchers from a wide
range of disciplines.
In addition you have access to specialist postgraduate
training workshops, studio space where relevant, and events both on and beyond the campus.
All students are
continually informed of events and opportunities of special interest to their
research through the electronic learning portal, while regular individual
tutorials with project supervisors will enable you to develop your project
effectively.
Overall the Arts MRes provides a learning environment in
which disciplined and self-directed academic rigour is enhanced by
opportunities for the interdisciplinary pollination of ideas.
An interdisciplinary retreat to support shared, innovative, creative practice through a series of practical workshops, discourse and play.
Featherstone Castle
Discover more
The first module, Research Methods, will introduce you to
generic considerations of research in the arts, before encouraging you to find
and develop advanced methodologies specific to your project.
REF2014 placed Northumbria’s
Art and Design research within the UK top ten for “research power”,
and as you progress, your tutors and supervisory team will advise you on how to
hone these approaches, drawing upon their own rich research expertise and
knowledge of the latest practices and developments.
You will apply your developing
expertise to a wide range of research materials, subjecting them to disciplined
analysis and interpretation, and presenting your findings in an academic symposium
and in your final thesis.
Learn more about the varying strands of research currently being undertaken within the department
Department of Arts Research
BxNU Institute
Performance and Identity
Visual & Material Culture
A Masters of Research also develops transferable
professional skills of communication, the ability to present intellectually
complex information over written, verbal or visual platforms, time and resource
management, and professional independence.
In directing an individual research
project from initial proposal to finished thesis, and through organising an
academic symposium with others from different disciplines, MRes students
develop a host of skills relating to project organisation, teamwork, marketing,
using communication platforms, and event management.
The Arts MRes is an ideal way to develop a set of
impressive outlooks, attributes and skills, which are directly transferable,
whether you wish to pursue further academic research at doctoral level, or
build a career in the cultural professions or education.
Through
carrying out a focused project of independent research, MRes Arts students
develop skills ideally suited to careers in the contextualisation,
communication or promotion of visual and material culture.
Whether developing
careers in academia, education, curating, cultural management, community
engagement, traditional and digital media publishing, or creative practice, MRes
graduates possess a directly relevant qualification and skill set to push their
ambitions forward.
The School of Design, Arts and Creative Industries is  a leading centre for supporting and energising creative practice and academic study.
Our inter-disciplinary research and experiential education is committed to the betterment of people, place, cultures, and societies.
Our programmes are defined by the way we collaborate with communities, industry, and external partners to inform curriculum, your learning and contribute to wider society.
Discover more .
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree in a relevant subject.
Applicants with appropriate work experience and/or a relevant professional qualification will be considered.
Applicants are required to submit a statement of their proposed area of study in order to identify a suitable supervisor.
DE7028 -
MRes Dissertation (Core,90 Credits)
In this module you will identify a research question and produce a 20,000 word dissertation or portfolio of practical work with an accompanying 10,000-word dissertation, which represents the culmination of your postgraduate studies on the MRes programme.
It will enable you to apply the skills you have acquired in other modules and yield a discrete body of primary sources related to an identifiable area of enquiry.
As an exercise in advanced research, it is intended to develop further your research skills and your ability to work independently as autonomous learner.
It is the capstone project for your Masters of Research.
Your Dissertation topic will be informed by your work on previous modules and your aims/objectives for this project, your future career direction and macro considerations, such as social responsible design/arts, ethical research and the benefit of research to wider communities.
A series of seminar/workshops through the module will provide you with information on gathering primary/secondary data, information analysis, research thinking and writing skills and practice-led /based research, all with the aim of feeding into high quality Dissertation outputs.
Your individual supervisor(s) will encourage you to engage with cultural, economic, strategic and social themes, critical discussion and high quality debate related to your area of enquiry.
You will operate as part of an early career researcher community of practice, in contact with other researchers and interdisciplinary groups.
HI7011 -
Research Development (Core,30 Credits)
In this module you will develop an aspect of your research project and present it in a professional manner to an audience of academics and students.
You will work with classmates to organize, advertise, and present a one-day symposium of research papers that express your scholarly projects.
The module aims to advance your professional skills and professional abilities by practice.
You will learn how to effectively present a piece of research, develop event planning skills, gain practical project management experience, all of which are necessary to sustain this type of work.
VA7029 -
Research Methods (Core,30 Credits)
In this module you will be equipped with a range of core skills essential to research in the arts, as well as specific methodologies appropriate to your specialist field of enquiry (as historian, critic or theoretician).
There are four key elements to the module: identifying the key issues and methodologies appropriate to your subject; identifying and retrieving appropriate data and sources; understanding ways to evaluate and employ these sources, and the implications of doing so; and developing and a practicable appreciation of how theory, research methods and practice mutually inform the creation of knowledge in the arts.
On completing the module you will have an enhanced awareness of how the choice of methodologies can fundamentally influence the direction of your research, and be able to: Understand and employ a range of advanced research skills, methods and critical approaches necessary to conduct a major academic research project in the arts; exhibit enhanced skills in the identification and evaluation of research sources relevant to your specific project and articulate a strategy for retrieving and utilising those sources; understand the characteristics of research questions, and frame your specific research questions within a feasible and sustainable topic of enquiry, appropriate to available research materials; develop original responses to the historical and conceptual questions posed by the research topic and to be able to situate your research within the larger context of research in the arts; communicate complex arguments and methods in written, visual and verbal form in a clear and credible way.
VA7030 -
Critical Contexts (Core,30 Credits)
This module will address the intellectual contexts for research in the visual arts, media and design.
You will examine the wider conceptual and theoretical frameworks that inform and impact upon your specific research project.
In doing so you will assess how these frameworks reflect and inform a variety of historical, visual, performative and literary texts and practices (in the fields of fine art, film and television, performance, cultural and media studies, and history of art and contemporary design and design history), and are interrelated with broader cultural, social and political developments.
You will analyse how writers, critics, historians and practitioners think about knowledge and how they pursue their disciplines from epistemological and theoretical perspectives.
In this way you will develop a structured overview of the ways in which key critical writing has changed over time, and how theory and conceptual thinking has influenced those working within disciplinary and cross-disciplinary fields.
On completion of the module, you will have developed original and critical responses to key theoretical questions raised via the analysis of sources, ideas, and other bodies of work, and be able to: Locate your research within wider relevant disciplinary debates; demonstrate an enhanced knowledge of selected theories, concepts and critical literatures, and how to employ them in regard to your own research; interrogate and problematise theories and concepts; demonstrate how curiosity and dynamic debate underpin academic enquiry; communicate complex ideas, and their relevance to your research project, in open discussion and formal written, visual and verbal forms in a clear and credible way.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/arts-dtpaar6:
The Arts MRes course offers you the opportunity to undertake a
closely-supervised piece of original research within the broad spectrum of
visual and material culture, including Fine Art practice, historical or theoretical
studies in art, design, architecture, fashion, film, television, visual digital
media or performance, while developing the skills to become an independent,
critical, and innovative thinker, maker, and Arts researcher.
You will
undertake a specialist research project, based upon your own focused proposal,
which may be subject-specific or span multiple arts disciplines.
The
centrepiece of the Arts MRes is an 20000-word Dissertation or body of practical
work  + 
10000-word Dissertation.
This is
supported by a framework of three modules, which provide expert knowledge and
understanding of appropriate research methods to employ in your project, the
wider critical contexts relating to your subject, and how to develop and
communicate your research.
The programme will enable you to position your
research within a wider scholarly field, and furnish you with professional
skills such as communication, self-management and planning, preparing you for
doctoral study or further career advancement.
Research
Project Proposal Guidelines
In addition
to the Personal Statement required in the online application form, you should
attach a 500–1000-word outline of your proposed research project for the
programme.
Consider that the research you propose will ultimately be presented
as either a 20,000-word written dissertation or, in the case of practice-based
students, a body of design practice and a 10,000-word dissertation.
For more
information read our application guide .
Find out more about studying an MRes at Northumbria University.
The Arts MRes is
based around self-directed study, but you are supported by a framework of four
modules.
Year one
In semester one, the Research Methods module is based
around a series of seminars, which explore methodologies for researching visual
and material culture.
Module, assessment is through written assignments
totalling 6,000 words (30 credits per module).
The semester two Research Development module is
shared with students from other MRes courses in Humanities and Social Sciences,
with whom you collaborate in all elements of organising (structuring,
fundraising, marketing and publicity) and staging a cross-disciplinary
symposium.
You are assessed on a presentation at that symposium, a 3000 word
written paper, and a 1500 word written reflection upon the organising process
(totalling 30 credits).
Year two
In semester one, the Critical Contexts module is based
around a series of seminars, which explore critical the themes, concepts and practices
in contemporary arts research .
Module, assessment is through written
assignments totalling 6,000 words (30 credits per module).
Across semesters two and three the Dissertation
module supports the development of  your
Arts MRes final project; a 20,000 word dissertation, or significant body of
practical art work supported by a 10,000 word dissertation (90 credits).
The majority of summative assessment on the MRes
Arts is through written assignments.
For art practice-based students, there is
also the option of the submission of a body of practice work for the final
Dissertation assessment.
For each of these, written feedback will be provided
in writing within 20 working days of submission.
However, the programme also
aims to develop the way you communicate your research in verbal and visual
forms.
So as well as a formal presentation in Research Development module, each
module requires you to present your progress and ideas to the seminar group at
key points, for formative assessment, discussion and verbal feedback from your
tutors and fellow students.
Take a look at what Northumbria has to offer and discover what studying with us could do for you.
Your supervisors will be academic specialists with in-depth knowledge of the critical issues relating to your topic, hands-on experience in appropriate research methodologies, and a highly regarded reputation of publishing scholarly materials, or exhibiting or performing works.
Arts staff have specialist knowledge in Fine Art and Performance practice, art and design practice and theory, film and television studies, curating, landscape, architecture, fashion, socially engaged arts, and digital arts practices.
Furthermore, if your project spans disciplines, your supervisory team may include staff members from different departments.
Whatever your interests, you will be supported by the expertise of highly research-active staff whose work is of recognised excellence.
In addition you have access to specialist postgraduate training workshops, studio space where relevant, and events both on and beyond the campus.
Fine Art practice-based students have access to studio space at the Baltic 39 studios, and all students are continually informed of events and opportunities of special interest to their research through the electronic learning portal, while regular individual tutorials with project supervisors will enable you to develop your project effectively.
Overall the Arts MRes provides a learning environment in which disciplined and self-directed academic rigour is enhanced by opportunities for the interdisciplinary pollination of ideas.
The first module, Research Methods, will introduce you to generic considerations of research in the arts, before encouraging you to find and develop advanced methodologies specific to your project.
REF2014 placed Northumbria’s Art and Design research within the UK top ten for “research power”, and as you progress, your tutors and supervisory team will advise you on how to hone these approaches, drawing upon their own rich research expertise and knowledge of the latest practices and developments.
You will apply your developing expertise to a wide range of research materials, subjecting them to disciplined analysis and interpretation, and presenting your findings in an academic symposium and in your final thesis or project.
A Masters of Research also develops transferable professional skills of communication, the ability to present intellectually complex information over written, verbal or visual platforms, time and resource management, and professional independence.
In directing an individual research project from initial proposal to finished thesis, and through organising an academic symposium with others from different disciplines, MRes students develop a host of skills relating to project organisation, teamwork, marketing, using communication platforms, and event management.
The Arts MRes is an ideal way to develop a set of impressive outlooks, attributes and skills, which are directly transferable, whether you wish to pursue further academic research at doctoral level, or build a career in arts practice, the cultural professions or education.
Through carrying out a focussed project of independent research, MRes students develop skills ideally suited to careers in the contextualisation, communication or promotion of the visual arts.
Whether developing careers in creative practice, education, curating, cultural management, community engagement, or traditional and digital media publishing, MRes graduates possess a directly relevant qualification and skill set to push their ambitions forward.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/autism-ma-dtpamt6:
Please note that the last intake of this course will be September 2025.
For 2026 entry please visit MA Neurodiversity & Inclusive Practice .
The Autism MA invites you to critically examine current
knowledge, practice and policy in autism.
You will develop skills in reflexive practice, critical analysis of
research evidence and consider implications for practice.
The Autism MA provides continuing
professional development for multidisciplinary practitioners and those with
lived experience.
The course
offers a personalised learning experience to suit your individual needs and
career goals, with a flexible framework of modules which will allow you to
tailor your learning around your life.
You will engage in a range of teaching and learning
approaches including teacher-led discussions, peer group work and individual
presentations.
The module assignments
are designed to enable you to focus on your specific areas of interest.
You will be supported by neurodiverse and highly qualified
research active staff, including Northumbria University staff and visiting
lecturers from our partner organisations, for example local NHS Trusts.
The Autism MA is a unique qualification which will ensure
that your knowledge is at the forefront of current developments in critical
perspectives and practice, preparing you for specialist roles in your career.
The course content is informed by, and
contributes to, co-production of knowledge with the autistic community.
We welcome applications from a broad range of backgrounds.
We are most interested in the individual reasons for your application to study
MA Autism and we would encourage you to apply if you have transferable skills
from less traditional academic backgrounds, such as industry or personal
experience.
If you have any queries then please do contact our programme
leader who can answer any questions on a personal basis, a response may not be
immediate but please be assured that you will receive a reply; joanna2.reynolds@northumbria.ac.uk .
Mode of Study 24 months Part Time
Department Social Work, Education and Community Wellbeing
Location Coach Lane Campus, Northumbria University
The Autism MA offers a personalised learning experience to
suit your individual needs and career goals, with a flexible framework of
modules which will allow you to tailor your learning around your life.
The module assessments,
including the final dissertation, are designed to enable you to focus on your
specific areas of interest, building your own bespoke MA programme of studies.
Staff are neurodiverse, with specific expertise in research
and practice in autism from disciplines including psychology, nursing,
education, sociology and occupational
therapy.
We invite visiting lecturers to
connect students with exceptional people and practice in the field of autism.
Staff who teach on this route: Joanna Reynolds.
One of our key specialist facilities is the University
Library and the extensive range of study skills support on offer.
Another key
facility is our student wellbeing support,
with a range of counselling and wellbeing activities.
Peer support with fellow students is another
key facility, supporting the development of your knowledge from a range of perspectives
and experiences and developing your skills in working collaboratively with
others.
You will benefit from technology enhanced learning.
Each
module within the course will have its own e-learning site.
This will enable
the sharing of all learning materials, enhance rapid communication with all
group members and enable students to use peer forums.
The modules within the course are all
informed by current research evidence, providing a research-rich learning
experience.
During the course you will develop your skills in the critical
analysis of research evidence and consider implications for practice.
You will be
supported to conduct your own research within your dissertation, supported by
rigorous critical enquiry and discourse.
As a result, you will extend, develop
and enhance your ability to evaluate and challenge the underlying assumptions
surrounding current knowledge and practice within the context of autism.
By undertaking the MA in Autism,
you are laying strong foundations for career development as a leader in autism
in organisations such as schools, hospitals, the community, social services
inspectorate, the police service, charities and parent organisations.
There is significant evidence that this
course will give your career an edge.
Assessments throughout the course offer you opportunities to
consider, discuss, analyse and evaluate your practice in relation to
theoretical concepts and ideas.
This process facilitates critical reflection on
work related problems and how they might be resolved.
The skills that are required in such assessments reflect many of
the component features of employability, such as independent learning, team
working, communication, analysis, critical reflection and self-awareness.
These advanced skills are valued in many fields including
teaching, speech therapy, occupational therapy, nursing and social services.
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree or a masters degree in a relevant subject area, or a relevant professional qualification.
International applicants are required to have a minimum overall IELTS (Academic) score of 6.5 with 6 in each component (or approved equivalent*).
Visit www.northumbria.ac.uk/englishqualification
TE7046 -
Understanding Autism (Core,30 Credits)
This module aims to engage  you in a critical appreciation of the complexities of autism.
Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental disorder, one of a number of early onset, overlapping lifelong disorders often with some degree of accompanying general or specific cognitive impairment.
It can have a major impact on how people learn, interact and behave There is a genetic component, as well as environmental influences.
You will analyse professional or familial practice, including your own, and will evaluate the effect of differing perceptions, particularly the perceptions of people with a label of autism.
You will learn that autistic people (term preferred by people on the spectrum) continue to grow and develop throughout life, and education in its broadest sense is the key to helping children and adults aim for a rich and rewarding life.
You will learn about and evaluate concepts used to diagnose autism spectrum disorders and their impact, including how this has changed over time.
You will develop an understanding of the psychological and cognitive theories of the causes of autism, including educational, social and medical factors and their impact.
You will critically explore the impact of autism on the individual and her/his family and learning environment.
In the teaching group you will articulate and evaluate the application of your learning and new understanding to the context in which you work or interact with autistic people.
You will be able to disseminate your knowledge gained through enquiry to an academic and professional audience
TE7075 -
Behaviour in Autism and Facilitation of Learning (Core,30 Credits)
This module aims to facilitate learning and apply theory and best practices in behaviour self-management with individuals with autism.
The module will help you to explore approaches to changing and developing new behaviour and the barriers to such implementation.
In addition, it will enable you to identify and promote more independent and competent behaviour and address appropriate forms of practice towards individuals with autism.
You will be encouraged to find ways to support people with autism to manage their behaviour increase their social repertoires and decrease behaviours which prevent them from maximising learning and achieving full participation in society.
You will examine critically the reasons for behaviours which challenge those working with individuals with autism.
You will analyse the relationships which exist between communication and behaviour including social-emotional issues.
You will develop an increased understanding of sensory issues and the relationship with behaviour and learning.
In addition, you will take part in a critical exploration of the issues involved in ensuring effective teaching and learning for children and adults on the autism spectrum.
It will involve examining pertinent issues around teaching and learning.
You will be encouraged to participate in the process of reflective practice, analysis of learning and social constructions of learning.
TE7076 -
Understanding Educational Research and Methods (Optional,30 Credits)
This module provides the underpinning skills and knowledge necessary to undertake independent research in education and training at Level 7.
It will give you  the opportunity to develop practical and theoretical skills in the use and understanding of different research paradigms, methodological approaches and their associated research methods.
You will also develop an in-depth understanding of related issues, including but not restricted to, ethical concerns, data management and analysis, the use conceptual frameworks and how to engage critically with the literature.
The module has a strong focus on practice, and you will be encouraged to take this as your starting point, to question and problematize professional concerns, and to develop those as research problems and questions.
This will provide you with a framework to critique and question research, policy and practice and their impact on Education and Training.
Drawing on this, you will be able to develop a research proposal which addresses a professional concern, drawing on contemporary and relevant research literature in order to analyse and justify your methodological approach.
You will also be supported to explore subject based literature in order to support your identification and exploration of a research problem.
WB0726 -
Project Management and Change Leadership (Optional,30 Credits)
This is a work based learning module that focuses your learning on the needs of your organisation and how they can be met through the initiation of change through  a quality improvement project.
It involves a tripartite relationship between you, your organisation and the university, facilitating your engagement with theory from the university and workplace activity concurrently.
You will develop a comprehensive understanding of a range of models, concepts and theories that will help you to become engaged in well informed and meaningful work-based enquiry and project management.
Through a combination of university seminar and inter-session activities in the workplace, the module will help you to develop a critical awareness of a range of appropriate approaches to project planning, implementation and evaluation appropriate to your own organisational and professional context.
Learning from this module will enable you to develop a project based approach to complex issues in your practice using structured project management, change management, reflective models, leadership approaches while taking ethical, confidentiality, data protection and  professional codes of practice into consideration.
This module will develop a culture of project based approaches to complex issues in your practice.
It will develop in you the confidence to initiate and lead change in your practice in response to challenges faced on a daily basis in organisations, effectively making you a lifelong change agent in your career.
While it is a stand-alone module, taken before the 60 credit work based dissertation this module can be used to plan the major quality improvement dissertation.
PP0724 -
The Empirical Project (Optional,60 Credits)
You will be encouraged to critically explore a range of approaches to research however emphasis will be placed on your understanding of the world view, design and meaning system that will drive your own research study.
It is assumed that prior to the undertaking of this dissertation module you will have undertaken study that prepares you for engagement with a Masters dissertation process and that you will have constructed a robust research proposal that has gained or is in the process of gaining ethical approval from both the University and (if applicable) your employing organisation.
In the module you will revisit and deepen your understandings of a range of key topic areas linked to the empirical research process, this will include discussion of world views and research paradigms, the research question, aim or hypothesis, research design, working with literature and theory, developing ethical codes, constructing the research sample, collecting robust research evidence, ensuring quality assurance within your research work, analysing both qualitative and quantitative evidence and writing and disseminating the research dissertation work.
You will be invited to attend a series of research seminars during the module and you will have access to a named Higher Education supervisor for one to one tutorial work.
Both the seminars and tutorials will encourage you to apply the key areas of learning within this module to your own professional context and field of expertise.
This will enable you to critically examine how the empirical research process will work best for your research goals and design
TE7039 -
Systematic Appraisal in Education and Training (Optional,60 Credits)
In this module you will focus on the role of the practitioner as a research user.
You will have the opportunity to make effective and systematic use of published research to inform education practice and/or policy.
Through the process of the systematic appraisal, you will develop enhanced critical appraisal skills.
The systematic appraisal project will address research questions which arise from your specific practice/field of expertise.
These questions may address: •	Effectiveness of single/definable interventions in order to state and recommend best practice/provide evidence based guidelines for practice.
•	Evaluation of appropriateness/acceptability/process/outcomes of educational provision in order to improve/develop/inform practice.
•	The service user experience of education services.
•	Relationships between practitioners and service users.
•	Theoretical and ideological issues of relevance to education practice and/or policy.
You will be supported to select published work to be included in the appraisal; this may be either entirely quantitative, entirely qualitative or mixed method.
You will then have the opportunity to consider the philosophical perspective of both the research question and the appraisal methodology.
The focus of this module is a small scale systematic review which you will undertake with the support of an experienced academic research supervisor.
Peer support is also encouraged through student led seminars.
TE7049 -
Education System in England (Optional,30 Credits)
The aim of the module is to develop an understanding of the Education system in England; where it has come from and how it works in practice today.
This will enable you to put all other education related modules into context.
It will give you an understanding of the education system in England and allow you to identify and appraise its many facets.
You will explore the UK system and consider the key features of the modern-day education system and the rationale which underpins that system.
You will explore research papers, texts and policy documents and consider how they might challenge commonly held assumptions and beliefs about the current system.
TE7050 -
Negotiated Study (Optional,30 Credits)
In this module you will focus on the role of the practitioner as a research user and you will have the opportunity to articulate and negotiate a Master’s level enquiry relevant to you and your practice.
You will learn how to interrogate electronic databases efficiently and effectively analyse qualitative data and write up your findings.
Through this process, you will develop your critical appraisal skills.
This module enables you to carry out a very small-scale piece of research which you undertake with the support of the module tutor.
TE7052 -
Mentoring and Coaching in Education and Training Settings (Optional,30 Credits)
In this module you will have the opportunity to analyse and critically explore what is meant by the concept of mentoring and coaching in and education and training setting.
You will be required to develop a critical theory –practice interface in your own role as a mentor/coach and to explore key features of that role in promoting and enabling learning.
The module will also provide you with the opportunity to critically reflect on your own practice as a mentor/coach and develop your mentorship skills and knowledge, based upon sound evidenced based practice.
You will also be expected to critically appraise relevant theory, literature and policy which will enable you to critically evaluate your own skills and knowledge and to subsequently act upon findings to advance knowledge, understanding and skills to a higher level.
TE7077 -
The Role of Educational Assessment in Practice and Policy (Optional,30 Credits)
The aim of this module is to explore the topic of educational assessment.
This module will provide the opportunity for you to learn how to develop and implement educational assessment, both formative and summative.
You will be able to critically analyse the reliability and validity of current practices; analyse discourses surrounding assessment and develop a good understanding the technical and conceptual issues which underpin the current assessment practices.
TE7078 -
Educational Leadership and Management: Models and Processes (Optional,30 Credits)
This module focusses on various ways of conceptualising educational leadership and management, from formal structures and notions of bureaucracy to critical and subjective theories.
This module will provide an opportunity to explore leadership and management in an education context from a holistic, strategic perspective.
You will explore the four management processes of planning, organising, leading and controlling.
You will also have the opportunity to consider the more practical aspects of a leader’s role, i.e.
the structural, financial, legal and HR aspects.
In addition to drawing on the expertise of those who work in the sector in considering how these theories translate into practice, it will offer the opportunity for you to explore your own practice/perceptions of strategic management and how theory might impact on them.
TE7079 -
Technology Enhanced Learning: Practice, Evidence and Debate (Optional,30 Credits)
Whether you are a professional working within education or are intending to work in education, this module is intended to provide you with an opportunity to develop your knowledge of technology enhanced learning (TEL) and the extent to which it enhances or inhibits learning and teaching.
The module will take you on a journey through the relationship between computer science and TEL.
It will enable you to explore and consider the impact of TEL pedagogy and consider it in relation to your own practice/experience.
The focus is broad as you will be encouraged to consider all aspects of TEL in variety of teaching and learning contexts, i.e.
in the statutory, further/higher and lifelong learning sectors.
TE7081 -
Perspectives and Philosophies of Education (Optional,30 Credits)
This module will encourage you to explore some of the ways education has been shaped by history, culture, politics and values.
Commencing with an exploration of the purpose and scope of education, you will be supported in challenging your own educational assumptions through an analysis of your identity as practitioners.
Western educational practices as shaped by history and philosophy will be examined and this will allow for an uncovering of the contextual issues which affect educational projects.
International perspectives will be considered in regard to Islamic education as well as Faith and Secular approaches to education and teacher identity.
Political influences in education will be critiqued through exploring the current National Curriculum as well as the Teachers’ Standards 2013 and these will be explored through a political analysis of other nation state approaches to the educational enterprise.
The latter part of the module will focus on the types of knowledge and skills valued in education from historical periods and contemporary contexts and how this franchises/disenfranchises the educator and learner.
You will be actively engaged with analysing the way in which your practice is shaped and influenced by political agenda and your role as educators will be scrutinised through self-analysis and the presentation of your individual analysis in the form of a short presentation and reflective commentary.
TE7082 -
Managing the Learning Environment in the 21st Century (Optional,30 Credits)
This module focusses on the various ways in which the learning environment might be managed, in a variety of educational contexts and how it can impact on teaching and learning.
You will be able to explore, create, reflect upon and evaluate learning environments and consider how they can be managed to maximise their effectiveness in relation to effective educational delivery, facilitation of learning and assessment of the desired outcomes  In addition, you will develop a critical understanding of how  learning environments and their management can impact on student experience.
TE7100 -
Inclusion and the Professions (Optional,30 Credits)
On this module you will explore the following topics: •	Inter-professional working •	Collaborative practice •	Protected characteristics •	Professional development •	Legislation, policy and codes of practice
WB0716 -
Work Based Dissertation (Optional,60 Credits)
This module comprising the implementation of a quality improvement project in your workplace is designed to promote your personal development, equipping you with a range of inter-personal, intellectual and practical (functional) skills.
The  real-time work-based dissertation will be of benefit to your employing organisation.
It seeks to raise your awareness of the workplace as a learning environment, extend your capability and enhance your individual effectiveness, employability and business competitiveness.
It will focus on organisational-based issues and seek to develop your skills in the diagnosis of problems, research and analysis.
You will develop strategies to address complex problems in your organisation and practice, responding to internal and external factors that every organisation has to contend with.
You will demonstrate that appropriate ethical, commercial, confidentiality and data protection issues are taken into consideration.
The module will instil intellectual curiosity in you as a professional learner, and lay a foundation for a philosophy of lifelong learning.
This will culminate in a dissertation report reflecting on the learning derived from implementing the project.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/automotive-engineering-extended-degree-uusxuv1:
Are you interested In how to make cars better, safer, cleaner and more sustainable?
The automotive industry, which includes successful manufacturers like Nissan, Honda and Jaguar Land Rover, needs engineers who can work on design, production, and research and development.
The Automotive Engineering BEng (Hons) course will equip you with the practical skills and expertise required for a successful career as a practising automotive engineer, with the full educational basis to facilitate progression to engineering management roles.
You will have the opportunity to explore contemporary automotive engineering through a variety of modules and project-based work, with an optional year in industry.
You will be taught and assisted by a well-rounded team of experienced practitioners, leading researchers, and a knowledgeable technical support team.
Equipped with industry standard lab facilities, the course will provide you with an exciting and practical learning experience to apply engineering principles to real-world problems.
Equipped with cutting edge lab infrastructure, the course seeks to provide exciting and practical learning experiences to apply engineering principles to real-world problems.
The course is designed to build your confidence and skills base and will equip you with an awareness of automotive engineering in the wider social, ethical, sustainable, and economic context.
You will be facilitated to explore many engineering options and not be limited by conventional approaches or established solutions but rather to challenge convention where appropriate.
The BEng programme is accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) to meet the academic requirements for registration as an Incorporated Engineering (IEng), and partially meet the academic requirements for registration as a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
You can meet the requirement in full by studying for an additional year and gaining a MEng (Hons) .
An optional placement year is embedded into the course to offer the opportunity to gain invaluable industrial and international experience and further demonstrate compliance with professional practice competencies set by IMechE.
Our students benefit from close links with industry and engagement with IMechE’s North East and Young Members Network and our graduates work in leading multi-national employers such as Exxon Mobil, Caterpillar, Nissan, Airbus, British Engines and GE.
Manufacturing & Production Engineering is ranked Top 20 in the UK by the Complete University Guide for 2025.
100% of students studying Automotive Engineering at Northumbria believed their course positively challenged them to achieve their best work (NSS, 2025).
Engineering is ranked 25th for research power in the UK out of 89 submissions (REF, 2021).
This is a rise of 8 places compared to 2014.
It includes a foundation year which will equip you with the essential skills and knowledge to develop effective, sustainable solutions and products that meet the varied needs of todays and tomorrow’s society.
The foundation year covers mechanical, civil and automotive engineering.
You will be taught and guided by a student-oriented and well-rounded team of experienced engineering practitioners, researchers, and a knowledgeable technical support team.
Equipped with dedicated lab and workshop facilities, your first year seeks to provide an engaging and practical learning experience to apply engineering principles to real-world problems.
UCAS Code Z036
Department Mechanical and Construction Engineering
Find out more about our department, facilities and what other students are taking part in.
Business and Engagement
Automotive Engineering at
Northumbria endeavours to promote an inclusive learning environment that
focuses on engagement and the development of higher-level learning objectives
that prepare students with the skills necessary to succeed in a competitive
industry.
The key learning objectives the
programme intends to foster are the development of problem solving
and critical thinking strategies, and the application of foundational concepts
and theoretical knowledge to practical real-world situations.
Consistent
with industrial practice,
learning activities will enable students to work collaboratively
through the development of teamwork, communication and leadership skills, and
the encouragement of creative thinking to solve engineering problems.
You will learn by applying the knowledge
and skills you gain from active learning sessions and
independent study to contemporary engineering issues and Global
challenges.
As
the level of study progresses, assessment tasks allow for more open-ended
discovery, evaluation, and reflection.
This culminates in a significant
self-led investigative project, guided by academic and technical
support staff, that allows you to pursue your individual
areas of interest within the programme.
Interactive sessions, core to the delivery
and ethos of the programme, give opportunity for hands-on learning and
authentic discussion and evaluation of understanding to provide regular and
meaningful formative feedback that will enable you to actively develop
as a critical thinker, reflective practitioner, and independent
learner.
The programme showcases links
with industry through the presentation of guest lectures that are closely
connected with subject themes.
You
will be taught by tutors who have many years of experience working in an
engineering industry or technical development role.
Their experience, combined
with their on-going active research, will provide an excellent foundation for
your learning.
Our
reputation for quality is reflected by the range and depth of our
collaborations with industry partners.
We’ve built up numerous industrial links
during the 50+ years that we’ve been offering engineering courses.
These links
help ensure high quality placements and collaborative projects.
Northumbria
also has the advantage of being in the North East of England, which is a centre
of manufacturing and technical innovation.
As well as Nissan, there is a strong concentration of companies in the automotive, engineering design and analysis,
and manufacturing supply chain providing opportunities for graduates.
During
the programme, you will be assigned a member of academic staff as a personal
tutor.
Your personal tutor will provide
you with advice and support in relation to your academic, personal, and
professional development throughout the programme.
The University also has a well-structured
range of support services providing specialist assistance for academic and
non-academic needs.
View all staff profiles.
When it comes to making sure you learn from the best, our staff are second to none.
Dr Martin Birkett
Professor Birkett currently leads the Engineering Materials and Mechanics Group (EM2G) and mainly teaches on the Mechanical Engineering degree programmes.
Dr Brabha Nagaratnam
Dr Christopher Connor
The Department has invested heavily in laboratory and workshop facilities to support your
academic learning.
We have specialist laboratories for engine
testing, aerodynamics, control and instrumentation, smart materials and
composites, engineering systems and fluids and thermodynamics.
Our
rapid prototyping room will make it easy for you to bring your design projects
to life, and our workshop offers tools and specialist equipment for modelling
your designs.
These facilities are utilised to
provide an authentic, practice-based learning environment.
The programme modules are
constructively aligned to offer use of our specialist facilities
allowing technical staff to provide support and insight into real
life engineering application.
The
electronic learning platform (eLP) provides a comprehensive
resource for integrated learning incorporating learning
materials and reading lists that will
facilitate directed and self-directed learning.
Contact with academic tutors
and your peers outside formal teaching hours is encouraged
through an open-door policy, discussion boards and messaging
systems within the eLP.
Enquiry
based activities are undertaken in our purpose-built Activity Centres.
The Zone offers space to facilitate individual study
and collaborative computer-based work.
It also provides areas for informal
meetings and discussion.
And our award-winning library is a valuable resource
for engineering literature and also provides additional IT, collaboration and
quiet study facilities.
The Department of Mechanical and Construction Engineering has modern laboratory and computing resources for learning, teaching, research, innovation and business engagement.
The practical part is the best thing on my course.
Northumbria has top end lab equipment for those that like practical work more than theory.
Sandean Fernandes
Student
The Automotive
Engineering programme seeks to promote a research rich learning
environment where students develop their skills, from first learning how to
conduct and evaluate research via problem-solving activities, through
to planning and managing their own investigative research project.
Subject
experts provide meaning to fundamental engineering knowledge by
structuring the curriculum around their research skills, interests and
experiences.
This research embedded
environment makes the learning process
engaging, developmental, personal, and meaningful.
As
you progress through the programme, you are encouraged and supported to work
with increasing independence in your study to tackle more complex
challenges and take greater responsibility for your
own learning journey.
This allows you to identify and pursue individual
topics of interest within the wider scope of Automotive Engineering and
research-led enquiry.
Research opportunities are designed into each
module throughout the programme, so that you are prepared and
equipped to take on challenging problems.
You will develop and practice vital
skills of time management, critical and reflective thinking, whilst through
increasing academic literacy you will draw on the latest research in the field
to analyse and evaluate contemporary engineering topics that have a global
impact on society.
Find out more about the research taking place in this department.
Advanced Manufacturing Technology
Renewable Energy Technologies and Materials
Smart Materials & Surfaces Laboratory (SMSL)
Employability is embedded at
all years within the Automotive Engineering programme at
Northumbria.
Our teaching
focuses on the authentic application of professional knowledge and skills through independent enquiry-based learning approaches and collaboration
with industry and professional bodies.
Enhancing your employment
prospects and developing links with industry are important aspects
of the Automotive Engineering programme.
During your studies, you will have the opportunity to undertake an industrial placement, or to study
abroad, which provide you with invaluable industrial or international
experience.
Academic staff will work with you
to help you understand and explore the different types of careers suited to a
graduate engineer and assist you in identifying possible avenues for you to
explore.
Our dedicated Careers and Employment Service will also support you in
finding and securing part-time employment during your studies, placement
opportunities, and full-time employment on completion of your programme.
Upon graduation, you will be in an excellent position to
become a practising automotive engineer with the skills for progression into
both technical and engineering management roles.
From first year through to final year and beyond graduation, we are here to help
KB3016 -
Engineering Numerical Skills (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn to use a range of mathematical tools and techniques that you can apply to a wide variety of engineering activities.
These skills and practices also underpin more advanced engineering design and analysis tools, so gaining a good understanding of the basic principles now will help as your progress through this programme and enter the world of engineering.
You will become familiar in working with formulae so that you can apply these skills within the engineering disciplines, for example, when investigating changes in processes and systems and when representing mechanical quantities.
You will learn techniques in algebra and trigonometry, such as those used by engineers to determine the shape, size, slope, mass, etc., of objects and spaces as well as when and how objects will move or interact.
These techniques are important to determine the unknown components in systems such as mechanical, fluid and thermal transfer and flow systems.
These techniques are also applied to the solution of design problems such as those involving force, motion and electrical power.
KB3017 -
Engineering Principles (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn to apply a range of basic principles and methodologies involving models of physical systems, matter, energy and waves, and forces and fields.
You will be assisted in developing your understanding of measurement and error to test predictions against evidence using a range of experimental methods and practical exercises.
Appropriate computational and analytical techniques will be applied to enable you to solve well-defined problems involving physical systems using standardised engineering approaches.
KB3018 -
Foundational Engineering Approaches 1 (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will be presented with authentic engineering problems derived and adapted to give you opportunities to explore ways in which you would resolve such problems to produce appropriate engineering solutions.
This module will, within the supportive environment offered by staff and your peers, allow you to develop your approach to resolving engineering problems that may involve research, experimentation, creativity and the acquisition and utilisation of new engineering skills.
Well bounded and defined problems within well understood constraints will allow you to develop confidence in resolving problems where there may be several factors to consider.
It is expected that there will be a limited range of solutions that might be considered appropriate based upon engineering judgement and perception associated with the topic.
Problems will span a range of engineering subjects to help you in making decisions towards your future degree programme.
KB3019 -
Analytical Skills in Problem Solving (Core,20 Credits)
You will build upon your knowledge and understanding of a range of mathematical tools and techniques that you can apply to a wide variety of engineering activities.
You will learn to apply and manipulate formulae so that you can apply these skills within the engineering disciplines.
You will enhance your appreciation of techniques in algebra and trigonometry, such as those used by engineers to determine the shape, size, slope, mass, etc., of objects and spaces as well as when and how objects will move or interact.
You will apply these techniques to determine the unknown components in systems such as mechanical, fluid and thermal transfer and flow systems, which are also applied to the solution of design problems such as those involving force, motion and electrical power.
You will further develop foundations in the skills required to apply these techniques using software tools as you progress towards complex engineering activities and prepare for entering an engineering degree programme.
KB3020 -
Engineering Systems (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn to use a range of engineering systems and approaches to develop a holistic approach to tackling different engineering challenges and how these can be utilised in different engineering environments.
You will build upon and apply a range of basic principles and methodologies involving models of physical systems, matter, energy and waves, and forces and fields.
You will learn to implement and interpret a range of experimental methods and practical exercises to validate predictions obtained through analytical and computational tools.
KB3021 -
Foundational Engineering Approaches 2 (Core,20 Credits)
The inclusion of this application focussed module in your studies will build on Foundational Engineering Approaches I by allowing you to expand the areas of investigation and further develop your problem-solving, teamwork and communication skills.
Again, you will be presented with authentic engineering problems derived and adapted to give you opportunities to explore ways in which you would resolve such problems to produce appropriate engineering solutions and further develop professional knowledge.
The incorporation of a limited degree of uncertainty in the problem definition will allow you to develop confidence in resolving problems where there may be incomplete information and several answers that might be considered appropriate based upon engineering judgement and perception associated with the problem.
KB4040 -
Engineering Analytics (Core,20 Credits)
These skills and practices also underpin the use of more advanced engineering design and analysis tools, so gaining a good understanding of the basic principles now will help as your progress through this programme and enter the world of engineering.
You will become familiar in working with formulae so that you can apply these skills within the engineering disciplines.
You will learn techniques in algebra and trigonometry, such as those used by engineers to determine the shape, size, slope, mass etc.
of objects and spaces as well as when and how objects will move or interact.
These techniques are important to determine the unknown components in systems and are also applied to the solution of design and analysis problems.
You will learn and apply the techniques of calculus, for example, those that enable you to determine how properties are changing in relation to time, as a result of changes in forces, or to calculate the quantity of work being done during a process.
You will develop foundations in the skills required to apply these techniques using software tools as you progress towards more independent and complex engineering activities and prepare for entering an engineering workplace on graduation.
KB4041 -
Materials & Manufacturing (Core,20 Credits)
This module introduces you to the subjects of materials and manufacturing within the programme.
You will be introduced to how different types of materials are structured and their composition and ultimately how this influences their properties and behaviour.
You will also explore how to make things using our practical workshop facilities using different methods and link appropriate manufacturing techniques to different types of materials.
You will examine and consider the environmental and societal impact of material selection and different manufacturing approaches.
KB4042 -
Applied Engineering Approaches 1 (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will be presented with authentic engineering problems that have been derived and adapted from industrial problems to give you opportunities to explore ways to advance solutions as a developing professional engineer.
It will, within the supportive environment offered by staff and your peers, allow you to develop your approach to resolving engineering problems that may involve research, experimentation, creativity and the acquisition and utilisation of new engineering skills.
Well bounded problem definition will allow you to develop confidence in resolving problems with well-defined information and produce answers that might be considered appropriate based upon engineering judgement and perception associated with the problem.
The problems encountered may be focussed within a specific subject theme but may still to some degree require the linking together of knowledge in several topics to derive acceptable solutions and valid resolutions from an engineering perspective.
KB4043 -
Statics & Dynamics (Core,20 Credits)
This module covers the topics of statics and dynamics and introduces you to the fundamental concepts associated with the mechanics subject within the programme.
Statics and dynamics describes and characterises how physical bodies behave, move and interact due to external influences.
Everyday engineering phenomena will be contextualised through the constraints of fundamental physical laws and relationships.
These concepts, such as kinematics, kinetics, structural members and different types of loading, and stress and strain will be applied to solve well-defined engineering problems using appropriate and conventional approaches.
You will also learn how to select and apply appropriate experimental methods, analytical tools and computational techniques to characterise and model well-defined static and dynamic problems.
KB4044 -
Thermodynamics (Core,20 Credits)
This module introduces you to the subject of fluids and energy within the programme and covers the topic of thermodynamics.
You will apply knowledge and understanding of scientific principles and methodology to solve well-defined thermodynamics problems.
You will explore the fundamental concepts of heat, work, and temperature and their relationships with energy, radiation, and physical properties.
Analytical and computational tools will be used to model well-defined thermodynamics problems, and you will be encouraged to show creativity during problem-solving activities.
KB4045 -
Applied Engineering Approaches 2 (Core,20 Credits)
The inclusion of this application focussed module in your studies will build on Applied Engineering Approaches I by allowing you to expand the areas of investigation and further develop your problem-solving, teamwork and communication skills.
In this module, you will be presented with authentic engineering problems that have been derived and adapted from industrial problems to give you opportunities to explore ways to advance solutions as a developing professional engineer.
KB5031 -
Academic Language Skills for Mechanical and Construction Engineering (Core – for International and EU students only,0 Credits)
KB5030 -
Preparing for Placement (Optional,0 Credits)
You will learn to apply for a 12 month placement in a construction engineering company.
You will do this through developing and improving your skills in the following areas: 1.
Communication 2.
CVs 3.
Interviews 4.
H&S within the workplace 5.
Professional conduct 6.
Teams 7.
Constructing a Learning Plan 8.
Evidencing your learning 9.
Reflection in the workplace 10.
Networking
KB5034 -
Mechanics and Finite Element Analysis (Core,20 Credits)
This module provides the opportunity to build on fundamental statics and materials knowledge and further examine applied mechanics with a focus on the development of more in-depth modelling approaches that provide more detail and insight into the behaviour of materials.
You will analyse mechanics concepts such as stress and strain transformations, shear stresses in beams and thin-walled structures to the solution of more broadly defined problems where there is some degree of uncertainty in their definition.
Finite element analysis, a computational technique, will be used in the analysis and design of mechanical structures, components and systems and compared to complementary experimental and analytical approaches that can be used to underpin, verify and interpret simulation results.
KB5036 -
Integrative Engineering Approaches 1 (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will be presented with authentic engineering problems that have been derived and adapted from industrial examples to give you opportunities to explore ways to advance solutions as a developing professional engineer.
The incorporation of a greater degree of uncertainty in the problem definition will allow you to develop confidence in resolving problems with incomplete information and several solutions that might be considered appropriate based upon engineering judgement and perception associated with the problem.
The problems encountered may span several subject areas and require the linking together of knowledge in these topics to derive acceptable solutions and valid resolutions from an engineering perspective.
KB5037 -
Engineering Project Management (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about project management methodologies and their selection, application and use within the context of mechanical engineering projects.
This will include the appropriate use of project management tools and software systems to gain insight into how an engineering project might be approached and managed concerning the attainment of successful completion of objectives including the utilisation of resources and other commercial considerations.
Other relevant and important factors such as ethical, sustainable, societal and professional responsibilities that are pertinent to project management activity within the field of mechanical engineering will also be explored in the module.
KB5039 -
Integrative Engineering Approaches 2 (Core,20 Credits)
The inclusion of this application focussed module in your studies will build on Integrative Engineering Approaches I by allowing you to expand the areas of investigation and further develop your problem-solving, teamwork and communication skills.
In this module, you will be presented with authentic engineering problems that have been derived and adapted from industrial scenarios to give you opportunities to explore ways to advance solutions as a developing professional engineer.
KB5040 -
Automotive Engineering Design (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about the application of automotive engineering design methodologies and their selection and use within the context of automotive design problems.
Vehicle design problems incorporate specific and unique issues that are driven by the need to provide safe, sustainable and performance solutions that can deliver transport systems fit for the future.
This will include the appropriate use of engineering tools and analytical approaches to the solution of engineering design issues whilst ensuring that issues relating to customer needs and associated aspects such as the societal impact of engineering activity are considered to a suitable degree as would be expected of a professional automotive engineer.
KB5041 -
Automotive Fluids & Energy (Core,20 Credits)
This module gives you opportunities to build on fundamental thermodynamic knowledge and examine practical and applied fluid flow and energy systems associated with vehicles, including the areas associated with different types of flow and how they may influence automotive engineering considerations, as well as energy conversion systems.
The changes and challenges associated with a move from fossil fuels to providing a more sustainable energy future are also explored in this module and how this may influence automotive development.
Based upon the application of relevant mathematical and engineering principles you will use analytical and computational techniques to solve problems associated with vehicle fluid flows and energy systems that have some limited degree of uncertainty in their definition.
By addressing such issues using an informed and skilled engineering approach incorporating creativity and curiosity, you will be able to derive substantiated conclusions as a result of your investigations.
KB5048 -
Work Placement Year (Optional,120 Credits)
You will learn lifelong technical and communication skills in a commercial work environment enabling you to practice your engineering skills in a nurturing and supportive environment.
None technical skills such as team working, clear and precise communication, responsibility and creative thinking will be developed alongside technical and commercial knowledge of your chosen field to generate creative, sustainable solutions.
You will be able to use the placement experience to develop and enhance appropriate areas of your knowledge and understanding, your intellectual and professional skills, and your value attributes, relevant to your programme of study.
KB5049 -
KB6054 -
Professional Engineering Futures (Core,20 Credits)
This module will allow you to explore what it means to be a professional engineer and the various options and opportunities open to you as a developing professional who may be contributing to the furtherment of mechanical engineering in the very near future.
Exploring aspects such as the various subject areas and developing themes within mechanical engineering that may allow you to tailor your career aspirations as you graduate, as well as looking at alternative career options, this module will assist you to reflect upon your development to date and consider where you may ultimately wish to direct your career and some of the things that you might do to try and get there.
Consideration will be given to the nature, types and sizes of organisations, their various stakeholders, and the different roles engineering has within different organisations.
Through contemplation of prospective roles within such organisations and how you may direct your individual professional development, you will develop a roadmap to help you progress your future career based upon the development of core professional values and competencies.
KB6058 -
Automation and Mechatronics (Optional,20 Credits)
This module introduces and explores the various aspects and technologies of industrial automation systems, such as robotic devices, and the appropriate mechanical engineering considerations associated with their design, selection and use.
The module will establish competence in the application of automation systems and component selection and their integration that is integral to the specification and operation of such systems in a range of different scenarios.
The module will develop the ability to select and use such systems safely and in ways that may be related to organisational aims such as quality, efficiency and output and consider relevant technical areas such as fixed and flexible automation systems, machine control (including programming) and sensor characterisation, selection and integration.
KB6059 -
Global Design Challenges (Optional,20 Credits)
This module allows you to develop your design skills and knowledge through their application to addressing acknowledged global design challenges and problems.
It will involve the consideration, selection and application of suitable design methodologies, approaches and techniques that are appropriate to the design problem posed.
Problems within the module will be identified as having a significant impact on society (in a global context) that would benefit from the derivation of engineering design solutions within the remit of mechanical engineering subject areas.
Key activities based upon design thinking and approaches, sound problem research and its translation into design requirements, through the implementation of scientific and engineering principles will be used to solve complex design problems within an environment that represents an authentic engineering design team and communication of the design results.
Professional engineering considerations, such as sustainability and economics, will be some of the factors integral to the process of deriving a solution.
They will necessitate a systematic and considered approach to the problem which will be supported by evidenced practical demonstration of design outcome suitability.
KB6060 -
Investigative Project (40 Credits)
You will learn about and demonstrate how to apply the knowledge and skills developed earlier and concurrently in your degree programme whilst also extending your independent learning through a deep investigation of a topic, which may be of your own choice.
You will develop your ability to plan, direct, progress and take responsibility for your large scale investigative project.
You may be involved in the choice of the topic of your investigation and be able to lead the direction of the investigation under the guidance of a supervisor.
Your investigation will be technical in nature, draw upon a broad range of existing engineering knowledge and practice, apply advanced engineering techniques and analysis, draw your verifiable conclusions supported by your findings and enable you to communicate your outcomes and conclusions in a professional manner.
KB6061 -
Vehicle Dynamics and Control (Core,20 Credits)
Vehicle dynamics and control will combine knowledge, understanding, and practical application within the subject of mechanics to tackle complex engineering problems.
You will investigate how the field of control theory is used to measure and regulate vibrating mechanical systems, and the impact such motions have on vehicle performance.
Advanced techniques and tools will be blended with the methodologies practised in previous years to facilitate investigation into complex dynamics-based problems where independence and creativity are encouraged to explore and critically evaluate potential solutions to more open-ended challenges.
Analytical, computational, and experimental techniques will be considered and applied to reach substantiated conclusions.
KB6062 -
Drive Cycles and Performance Modelling (Optional,20 Credits)
You will build upon your knowledge of engineering science to develop an understanding of how the legislation relating to vehicle emissions and fuel economy are applied to the drive cycles and the technologies that contribute to the reduction of harmful emissions.
Using this information, you will develop a computational model to predict the performance of a passenger car around a drive cycle that relates to an international standard.
The specific engineering principles and technologies that provide the foundation for the design and analysis of a high-performance racing car and their application will be explored and advanced to develop computational models to predict lap times of a vehicle around a circuit.
KB6063 -
Vehicle Aerodynamics (Optional,20 Credits)
Aerodynamics is the study of airflow around objects.
This can be applied to the improvement of external and internal effects, such as reducing drag, improving downforce on a vehicle, and controlling the flow of air to provide ventilation and cooling of vehicle systems.
This module facilitates the development of your capabilities in the appraisal of engineering principles associated with vehicle fluid dynamics and in particular the subject of aerodynamics.
Expanding your use of analytical and computational methods to explore these subjects you will investigate typical automotive areas such as wing theory and design.
You will apply and interpret theoretical formulations to practical engineering problems associated with the design, construction, function and efficiency of wings and aerodynamics features associated with automotive vehicles.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/beng-hons-automotive-engineering-uusauv1:
UCAS Code H3P5
£3 million award to transform Northumbria's Engineering facilities.
Scientists at Northumbria develop sustainable solution for clean drinking water.
Women in Engineering award for Northumbria academic.
Northumbria Professor leads development of 'wonder material'.
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Automotive Engineering.
A-level Mathematics and another analytical science subject (Biology, Chemistry, Computer Sciences, Physics or Technology), or recognised equivalents.
Optional field trips - approximate costs up to £200.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/meng-automotive-engineering-uusauo1:
The first three years of the course, or four years if you undertake a year-long industrial placement, are the same as our BEng (Hons) Automotive Engineering.
You’ll then complete a further year to gain your MEng.
This final year continues the strong focus on automotive engineering.
The MEng programme is accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) to meet the academic requirements for registration as a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
You should apply for this course if you want to meet in full the academic requirements for becoming a Chartered Engineer, which is associated with higher salaries.
Employers place particular value on graduates who, because they already have an MEng, don’t need to undertake postgraduate studies alongside their day-to-day work.
Throughout the course you’ll be tackling problems within a practical context.
Our sustainable engineering agenda will ensure that you’ll be equipped to work ethically in a world that needs engineers to meet societal challenges.
UCAS Code H3P6
Read our student blog and find out what student life is like at Northumbria from real students, tips and advice and much more.
Our teaching methods include lectures, seminars, laboratory sessions and group projects as well as tutor-directed and self-directed research.
There’s a strong emphasis on problem-solving because we believe that you’ll learn best when you’re engaged in applying what we teach.
Assessment methods are designed to give you feedback as well as to monitor your level of achievement.
They include assessed projects that will enable you to test your skills and understanding.
For most modules, though not all of them, the main method of assessment is coursework and not exams.
Our expertise is reflected in the range and depth of our collaborations with industrial partners, such as Ricardo, JCB, Cummins and Caterpillar.
We’ve built up excellent industrial links during the 50+ years that we’ve been offering engineering courses.
These links help ensure high quality placements and collaborative projects.
Northumbria has the advantage of being located in the North East of England, which is a centre of manufacturing and technical innovation.
As well as Nissan, the region’s #1 company, there is a strong concentration of automotive, engineering, chemicals, construction and manufacturing companies.
Northumbria University provides outstanding facilities for engineering.
We have specialist laboratories for smart materials and composites, building and construction, control and instrumentation, and fluids and thermodynamics.
We have a twin engine test cell, wind tunnel and virtual reality suite for research into collision detection systems and car-to-car interaction.
Northumbria is making significant advances in communication technologies, electronics and Bluetooth.
Our rapid prototyping room will make it easy for you to bring your design projects to life, and our modelling workshop offers tools and specialist equipment for modelling your designs.
All our facilities are backed up by specialist technicians who will give support and advice when you need it.
To facilitate group projects, there is a working space called The Hub that’s well equipped for meetings and working with IT.
The Zone is another area that’s popular with students undertaking group work or individual study.
Northumbria’s strong research ethos is an essential aspect of how you will develop as a critical, reflective and independent thinker.
With our problem-solving approach you’ll acquire a wide range of research and analytical skills as you progress through the course.
These skills will come together in the major project that you’ll undertake, which requires independent research and appropriate techniques of inquiry, critical evaluation and synthesis.
Throughout the course your learning will be directly impacted by the teaching team’s active research into their specialist subjects.
One of Northumbria’s signature research themes is ‘Future Engineering’, which is about innovation in the engineering and construction industries so that they are fit for purpose in the 21st century.
We also have particular interests in novel construction materials, Building Information Management, smart materials and sustainable technologies.
MEng (Hons) Mechanical and Automotive Engineering has been designed to fully meet the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE)’s academic requirements for becoming a Chartered Engineer.
Chartered status is associated with improved employability and higher salaries.
The optional placement year will enrich your experience and provide opportunities to engage with industry.
There is also an option to spend the year studying abroad, which will broaden your international experience.
Our ‘learning by doing’ approach will give you an in-depth understanding and technical skills that are sought by employers.
The major project in your third/fourth year, and the interdisciplinary engineering project in your fourth/fifth year, are great opportunities to apply everything you’ll have learnt.
The outcome is not only important for assessment purposes but also to demonstrate your professionalism to potential employers.
Our Careers and Employment Service offers resources and support that will help you find roles matching your interests and skills.
You’ll be able to access a range of workshops, one-to-one advice, and networking opportunities.
By the end of this course you’ll be in an excellent position to become an automotive engineering professional.
Engineering is a growth industry and currently there is a shortage of engineers.
The UK government is stressing the importance of skilled, qualified engineers to the future of business and industry.
The MEng (Hons) qualification will give you an extra edge in the job market.
It’ll show that you have extended and deepened your knowledge and skills compared to others who have an undergraduate degree such as a BEng (Hons).
Whatever you decide to do, you’ll have strong employability as a result of having acquired the characteristics of a Northumbria graduate.
KB7054 -
Intelligent Transport Systems (Core,20 Credits)
Intelligent transport systems investigate the interconnected world and how this is leveraged to create smarter, safer, and more efficient transport infrastructure.
In this module, you will apply comprehensive knowledge of engineering principles to the solution of complex transport problems facing the modern world.
Much of this knowledge will be at the forefront of current understanding, and you will demonstrate a critical awareness of new developments and the wider context of engineering.
You will select and apply appropriate analytical and computational techniques to model complex problems, discussing the limitations of these approaches within the context of transport infrastructure.
KB7055 -
Smart and Future Vehicles (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about new and emerging technologies and systems that are at the forefront of the vehicle design.
You will apply a comprehensive knowledge of engineering principles to the solution of complex problems facing emerging vehicle technologies.
Much of the knowledge will be at the forefront of the subject and informed by a critical awareness of new developments and the wider context of engineering.
You will evaluate the environmental and societal issues facing the automotive industry and critically analyse potential solutions to these complex problems.
KB7057 -
Interdisciplinary Project (40 Credits)
This module is the culmination of your degree programme; it provides an extended opportunity for you to bring together your specialist knowledge and skills within an industry or development-based project.
You will work with the guidance of a tutor to direct your learning and develop your abilities in areas such as team planning and management, detailed design of the proposed method, prototype fabrication or virtual system modelling and critical evaluation and identification of further developments.
You will be provided with the opportunity to demonstrate to potential future employers the breadth and depth of your ability by not only using your specialist abilities, but also through the demonstration of your planning, organisational and team working skills.
You will be expected to incorporate unfamiliar knowledge as well as the wider social and environmental considerations of the engineering profession.
KB7058 -
Future Materials (Core,20 Credits)
This module will investigate and evolve your understanding of smart and future materials and associated methods of manufacture.
Much of the module will be at the forefront of the materials and manufacturing knowledge and informed by a critical awareness of new developments and the wider context of engineering and the impact on society.
You will critically analyse topics such as those smart materials with the ability to change shape, self-heal and sense, new and emerging materials for extreme environments, materials and manufacturing methods for the circular economy, and manufacture for sustainability.
KB7061 -
Sustainable Development for Engineering Practitioners (Core,20 Credits)
This module explores the fundamentals of sustainable and ethical development for engineering practitioners, considering the role and responsibility of the engineer within society.
The module will consider the elements of sustainable development as they relate to decision making in engineering, for example, consideration of legislation, economics, energy, materials, environment, and society.
The challenges engineering activities present society are examined, and ethical solutions for the future of our planet are sought through the use of various techniques and tools such as the triple bottom line, stakeholder analysis, the circular economy, carbon footprint, material and energy supply chains and risk.
A rational argument for sustainable solutions will be presented using both qualitative and quantitative data sources and tools using a wide range of published literature and from students’ own experience.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bar-course-ft-dtfbtc6:
Please note: This course is closed for September 2025 entry.
You can register your interest for September 2026 by clicking the apply now button above.
In a demanding and rapidly changing legal landscape, the highest quality training is required to succeed as a barrister.
Northumbria University’s Bar Course  will support you in gaining the necessary knowledge and practical skills that are essential to practice at the modern Bar.
The new Bar course replaces the former Bar Professional Training Course.
Teaching on Northumbria’s Bar Course is led by a team of highly experienced barristers and supported by a well-established network of members of the Bar, Judges and other  practitioners.
You will study:
From our law school you will develop the knowledge and skills to practice in a broad range of briefs.
These are focused on the foundation areas of pupillage and early practice.
From the outset you will be taught to think and behave like a barrister.
You will be instructed in cases conducted as in practice, incorporating conferences, advocacy, drafting and opinion writing.
You will also learn your professional, ethical obligations.
This invaluable, practical experience will equip you to be immediately effective in pupillage.
You will benefit from generous contact hours throughout the course including dedicated exam-focused teaching sessions during which the teaching team will share their expertise to support you in preparing for the Bar Standards Board (BSB) centralised assessments.
You may also gain, at no further cost, an additional qualification in Mediation.
Northumbria delivers opportunities to develop distinctive and unique knowledge and skills with opportunities to undertake:
Together these opportunities in Bar training will allow you to distinguish yourself in a competitive environment and ultimately thrive in this prestigious profession.
On successful completion of the Bar Course you will be eligible for Call to the Bar of England and Wales (subject to meeting the qualifying requirements of your Inn of Court)
All fees are inclusive of the Bar Standards Board (BSB) fee, practitioner texts required for study, external Mediation training and the Northumbria Qualifying Dinner.
Our flexible suite of Bar Courses offer you the opportunity to learn in the way that suits you best, with part-time , LLM and separate Bar Knowledge and Bar Skills options available.
Find out more about Bar Courses or if you are interested in postgraduate study at Northumbria, get in contact with us now.
Department Northumbria Law School
Hear from our academics on why you should study at Northumbria, the facilities we offer as well how we support our students.
Your Bar training at Northumbria will be immersive, practice-focused and extremely supportive.
By studying in a way that simulates professional practice, you will prepare yourself for a seamless transition from classroom to courtroom.
We will deliver the knowledge modules over both semesters, through a combination of lectures, seminars, podcasts and tutorials.
We believe that face-to-face teaching is essential to allow you to discuss and debate the material with our academics, and learn from their extensive experience of the law.
Integrated with the knowledge modules, you will develop your skills through three practice streams focusing on the 3 foundational areas of practice in pupillage and the junior Bar – Family, Civil and Criminal Practice.
You will practice Advocacy, Conferencing, Drafting and Opinion Writing in context of actual practice with the ability to access briefs entirely electronically – as in many areas of modern practice.
You will have opportunities to undertake Advocacy training involving non-civilian witnesses and expert witnesses, for example Crime Scene Investigators, Police Officers and Social Workers (please note, the range of witnesses may change year on year).
In addition, you will have access to specialist exam practice technique sessions to help you prepare for the centralised assessments, extra advocacy masterclasses, mooting competitions, a Qualifying Dinner, and a supplementary qualification in mediation.
Underpinning all of this is a strong emphasis on Professional Ethics, which will equip you with the knowledge required for the Professional Ethics assessment on the Bar Course and provide the foundation for the further assessment you will undertake during pupillage.
At Northumbria you can expect exceptionally high standards of teaching from a practice-oriented teaching team, many of whom remain in practice at the Bar or sit as Judges.
We are enthusiastically supported by the broader Bar and Judiciary, who often deliver in-course and extra-curricular teaching as part of the Practitioner Programme – with a strong emphasis on the development of your advocacy skills.
The quality of our teaching has also been recognised through a variety of awards and nominations.
These include Law Teacher of the Year Award, the Attorney General’s Pro Bono Award and the Northern Law Awards.
The expertise of staff extends beyond professional practice.
As academics, the tutors at Northumbria Law School have expertise in a range of areas, with some members recognised as national or international leaders in their field.
We host the Northumbria Centre for Evidence and Criminal Justice Studies, and our research groups include Gender, Sexuality and Law; the Northumbria Information Rights Research Group; and the International Law Research Interest Group.
David McCormick, Northumbria alumni and Barrister
Katherine Dunn
Sara Lambert
Programme Leader & Assistant Professor
Emma Piasecki
Laura Coapes
Northumbria Law School provides first-class teaching in a world-class environment.
You will be based in our award-winning City Campus East building, which houses our mock courtroom and Student Law Office as well as an array of lecture theatres, classrooms and a dedicated postgraduate study area.
It is also home to our specialist Law Practice Library, which contains practitioner materials as well as a wide variety of journals, databases, and law reports.
The range and depth of resources reflects our position as the largest law school in the North East region.
The 24/7 University Library achieves some of the highest levels of student satisfaction in the UK, and holds Cabinet Office accreditation for Customer Service Excellence.
Technology Enhanced Learning (TEL) is an integral part of this course.
You receive extensive support through our e-learning platform, Blackboard, where you can access a wide range of resources.
These include online discussion forums, collaborative online learning, self-test materials and assessment tasks.
We use Panopto software to record teaching, feedback and practical exercises in Conferencing and Advocacy.
This is a valuable aid in the process of reflection, critical thinking and improvement.
Northumbria Law School Facilities
Business & Law Virtual Tour
You will experience research-rich learning in both the knowledge and skills elements of Bar training, through enquiry-based tasks, case analysis and engagement with legal research.
The pervasive research culture of Northumbria Law School will facilitate your development of excellent research skills and a strong conceptual understanding of specialist areas of law.
The Law School’s research is focused on three areas: Law and Society; Legal Education and Professional Skills; and the Centre for Evidence and Criminal Justice Studies.
Your tutors will discuss their own and wider research as it relates to the course, enhancing your learning experience and encouraging critical thinking.
View all Current Research Themes
The Law School contains a vibrant, collegiate and growing research community with diverse interests, objectives and methodologies, with some members recognised as national or internal leaders in their field.
Discover more…
On successful completion of the Bar Course you will be fully prepared for the demands of practice, and will be eligible for call to the Bar of England and Wales (subject to meeting the qualifying requirements of your Inn of Court).
At Northumbria, we aim to ensure that you are prepared in every way for pupillage selection and life as a barrister.
The course will build on your existing legal knowledge and equip you with the skills, knowledge and values necessary for practice as an effective and successful legal professional.
Northumbria Law School is internationally-recognised as delivering excellence in training for the Bar, and we are an integral part of the local legal community.
Local firms and practitioners often sponsor prizes celebrating student success on the programme – evidence of the high esteem in which our graduates are held and a remarkable opportunity for you to gain recognition.
Previous graduates have gone on to positions as barristers in Newcastle and all over England and Wales, as well as in Commonwealth jurisdictions across the globe.
Find out how studying on the Bar Course at Northumbria helped students secure pupillage and read about their journey to becoming a barrister
View all alumni profiles
Hannah Burton
Barrister
Jack Cottrell
Pupil Barrister
Jonathan Cook
Peter Wilson
Join us at a Virtual Open Day to find out about life in Newcastle, tour our facilities, discover your funding options and chat to staff and students.
A minimum of a 2:1 honours degree in Law, or a minimum of a Commendation in the Graduate Diploma in Law (GDL) – or to be on course to achieve this.
Applicants with a 2:2 honours degree or a Pass in the GDL will be considered exceptionally on an individual basis, and with appropriate evidence.
Please note academic qualifications must satisfy the requirements outlined by the Bar Standards Board.
Applicants that hold, or are completing a non-UK/ROI degree or conversion course, must apply to the Bar Standards Boards for a Certificate of Academic Standing and be studying or have studied a Conversion Course such as the GDL.
Further information can be found on the Bar Standards Board Website.
All applicants are required to join one of the four Inns of Court before commencing the course.
Applicants must have achieved a minimum standard as specified by the BSB within the past five years.
For more information, please visit www.barstandardsboard.org.uk
Bar Course Aptitude Test (BCAT):
The Bar Standards Board (BSB) has decided to discontinue the BCAT as an entry requirement for the vocational component of Bar Training with effect from 31 July 2022.
Please see this statement on the BSB website for more information: https://www.barstandardsboard.org.uk/resources/bsb-to-abolish-the-bar-course-aptitude-test-from-31-july.html
Please visit www.northumbria.ac.uk/barapplications
For further information and how to apply, please visit www.northumbria.ac.uk/barapplications
Please review this information before submitting your application.
Full UK Fee:
                                £13,200
Full International Fee:
                                £13,200
"The fees above include the Bar Standards Board fee (which is £840 for September 2025 - £560 for the Bar Knowledge Course and £280 for the Bar Skills Course, where students elect to take one of these programmes as opposed to the full Bar Course - and which is subject to change each year thereafter at the discretion of the BSB): 
Upon joining the course, you will be provided with the core textbooks that you require for your studies (you may purchase additional texts if you wish, but they will not be ‘recommended reading’ and you may find that the University library has copies of any additional texts that you may wish to browse/refer to).
Additional costs include: the Inn membership fee which was between £100 and £148 in 2023.
All of these additional costs are mandatory and subject to pricing by independent bodies (and so the prices given above may possibly change from year to year).
Students must also attend 10 ‘qualifying sessions’, run by the Inns of Court.
These may include dinners, lectures, advocacy training or residential weekends.
One such session is included in your fees - the Northumbria Bar Dinner.
The remaining 9 sessions are funded by the student and the cost varies depending on what you choose to attend and its location.
Costs will typically include travel, event costs, accommodation and meals if necessary."
LW7118 -
Criminal Litigation (20 Credits)
The Criminal Litigation module is delivered on the Bar Course and across the portfolio of Bar Courses at Northumbria University.
Building on foundation knowledge from criminal law modules on your qualifying law degree, this module will familiarise you with current procedures relating to the following topics: -	Preliminaries to prosecution; -	Bail and remands; -	Pre-trial issues; -	Disclosure; -	Indictments; -	The roles of the Magistrates’, Crown and Appellate Courts; -	Youth Courts; -	Summary trial procedure; -	Preliminaries to trial in the Crown Court and jury trial procedure; -	Sentencing powers of the various courts; -	Appeal procedures.
On completion of this module, you will be able to demonstrate a sound understanding of criminal process as a whole, knowledge of how cases progress through the system and an understanding of, and an ability to apply, the main procedural and evidential rules relevant to criminal matters.
LW7119 -
Civil Litigation (20 Credits)
The Civil Litigation module is delivered on the Bar Course and across the portfolio of Bar Courses at Northumbria University.
Modern civil litigation requires knowledge of the detailed and technical Civil Procedure Rules (CPR) and rules of civil evidence.
However, it is equally important that the modern practitioner also possesses a thorough knowledge of the various methods of Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) and, crucially, the interplay between “conventional” litigation and ADR.
To meet these requirements, this module will provide you with thorough knowledge and understanding of those parts of the CPR, civil evidence and ADR which you are set out in the BSB’s syllabus document for this module.
This is likely to include: -	The various forms of ADR (negotiation; mediation; arbitration; and conciliation) and how they operate; -	When, in the course of civil dispute, to use ADR and selecting the most appropriate method of ADR; -	The implications of ADR in relation to matters such as costs and enforcement; -	The importance of the Pre-Action Protocols; -	The Overriding Objective of the CPR; -	Interim applications (e.g.
summary judgment; setting aside default judgment) and interim remedies ( e.g.
injunctions; interim payments); -	The rules surrounding disclosure; -	Civil evidence (including witness evidence; hearsay and legal professional privilege); -	Costs; -	Appeals.
On completion of this module you will be able to demonstrate a sound understanding and knowledge of the progress of civil litigation and dispute resolution from initial considerations through to trial and on to appeals and an ability to apply, the main procedural and evidential rules relevant to civil matters.
LW7120 -
Professional Practice and Ethics (20 Credits)
The Professional Practice and Ethics module is a year-long module delivered on the Bar Course and across the portfolio of Bar programmes at Northumbria University.
On this module you will learn about the nature of professional practice and the professional values which underpin practice at the Bar of England and Wales.
The module aims to develop knowledge of key areas of practice and instil and consolidate the essential qualities of ethical behaviour at the Bar by nurturing and developing these existing attributes in students to a high level.
Encompassing more than the knowledge and formalities outlined in the Bar Standards Board Professional Statement for Barristers and the Code of Conduct the module will furnish far reaching and fundamental knowledge of ethics that underlies practice at the Bar.
The module seeks to: -	provide knowledge and understanding of the nature of professional practice at the Bar and key concepts and topics necessary for the development of an effective practice; -	inculcate the fundamental concepts of professional and ethical values required of a practising barrister at the Bar of England and Wales; -	provide knowledge and understanding of the philosophical issues and purposes underpinning ethical behaviour, including the concept of duty in professional life both to the client and to the rule of law; -	provide in-depth knowledge and understanding of the requirements of the Bar Standards Board Handbook and Professional Statement.
LW7121 -
Criminal Professional Practice (20 Credits)
The Criminal Professional Practice is a year-long module on the Bar Course and is delivered across the portfolio of Bar programmes at Northumbria University.
It is designed to reflect the nature of criminal cases encountered during pupillage and the early years of practice.
This module involves the study of criminal practice in the context of realistic scenarios which incorporate fact management, case analysis, legal research, advocacy, drafting, opinion writing and conference skills, linked to the relevant procedural framework and ethical considerations as in practice.
The module involves a number of different cases which raise legal and procedural scenarios of the kind that criminal practitioners regularly encounter in practice.
It is designed to ensure that each student appreciates the importance of identifying legal, procedural, tactical and ethical issues when they arise.
This Criminal Professional Practice module is designed to build on existing legal knowledge and allows the acquisition of the s knowledge, skills and attributes necessary for practice as an effective and successful criminal practioner at the Bar.
The module is supported throughout by research rich and practice informed learning and technology enhanced learning which are crucial to current legal practice in a demanding, rapidly changing legal landscape.
LW7122 -
Family Professional Practice (20 Credits)
The Family Professional Practice module is a year-long module delivered on the Bar Course and across the portfolio of Bar programmes at Northumbria University.
It is designed to reflect the nature of family cases encountered during pupillage and the early years of practice.
This module involves the study of family practice in the context of realistic scenarios which incorporate fact management, case analysis, legal research, advocacy, drafting, opinion writing and conference skills, linked to the relevant procedural framework and ethical considerations as in practice.
The module involves a number of different cases which raise legal and procedural scenarios of the kind that family practitioners regularly encounter in practice with particular emphasis and dealing with financial consequences on the breakdown of relationships.
These may include ancillary relief applications, occupation orders and non-molestation orders.
This Family Professional Practice module is designed to build on existing legal knowledge and allows the acquisition of the knowledge, skills and attributes necessary for practice as an effective and successful family practitioner at the Bar.
LW7123 -
Civil Professional Practice (20 Credits)
The Civil Professional Practice module is year-long module on the Bar Course and is delivered across the portfolio of Bar programmes at Northumbria University.
It is designed to reflect the nature of civil cases encountered during pupillage and early years of practice.
This module involves the study of civil professional practice in the context of realistic scenarios which incorporate fact management, case analysis, legal research, advocacy, drafting, opinion writing and conference skills, linked to the relevant procedural framework and ethical considerations as in practice, including cases that settle.
The module involves a number of different cases which raise legal and procedural scenarios of the kind that practitioners at the civil Bar regularly encounter in practice.
Examples of the areas that will be covered include: Drafting pleadings: drafting opinions on liability and /or quantum; arguing interim applications and appeals.
The Civil Professional Practice module is designed to build on existing legal knowledge and allows the acquisition of the knowledge, skills and attributes necessary for practice as an effective and successful civil practitioner at the Bar.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bar-course-pt-dtpbtc6:
You will benefit from generous contact hours throughout the course
including dedicated exam-focused teaching sessions during which the teaching team will share
their expertise to support you in preparing for the Bar Standards Board (BSB)
centralised assessments.
Alongside practice-focused teaching, students will also benefit from a year-long series of workshops designed to support knowledge, understanding and exam techniques and preparation for these assessments.
Our flexible suite of Bar Courses offer you the opportunity to learn in the way that suits you best, with full-time , LLM and separate Bar Knowledge and Bar Skills options available.
Find out how studying on the Bar Course at Northumbria helped students secure pupillage and read about their journey to becoming a barrister.
Watch four of our Northumbria Law alumni talk about their experiences, and their flourishing careers as barristers at Trinity Chambers and Dere Street here in Newcastle.
The fees above include the Bar Standards Board fee (which is £840 for September 2025 - £560 for the Bar Knowledge Course and £280 for the Bar Skills Course, where students elect to take one of these programmes as opposed to the full Bar Course - and which is subject to change each year thereafter at the discretion of the BSB): Upon joining the course, you will be provided with the core textbooks that you require for your studies (you may purchase additional texts if you wish, but they will not be ‘recommended reading’ and you may find that the University library has copies of any additional texts that you may wish to browse/refer to).
Costs will typically include travel, event costs, accommodation and meals if necessary.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/masters-of-law-bar-course-llm-ft-dtfbte6:
Northumbria University’s Bar Course LLM will support you in acquiring the necessary knowledge and practical skills crucial to practice at the modern Bar.
Northumbria’s approach to Bar training replicates professional practice more closely than ever.
The Bar Course LLM will apply your knowledge and skills to practice in a broad range of briefs focused upon the foundational areas of pupillage and early practice - family, civil and criminal law.
You will develop your skills in Advocacy, Conferencing, Drafting and Opinion Writing within the simulated context of these briefs, and this invaluable, practical experience will equip you to be immediately effective in pupillage.
A Masters in Law offers you the opportunity to enhance your profile and experience by gaining an internationally recognised LLM qualification in addition to your Bar Course.
At Northumbria we offer Bar students two possible routes to the LLM Project qualification: a traditional dissertation focusing on the in-depth critical examination of a substantive area of law of your choosing of between 10,000 – 15,000 words; or a combination of clinical experience gained in the Student Law Office, together with and extended piece of written work of between 8,000 and 10,000 words (SLO Bar Project).
Through your LLM Project you will develop professional skills necessary for practice, expanding on your legal knowledge, your legal application and your ability to critically analyse and reflect on law, practice and policy.
In an increasingly competitive market, this offers you an additional pathway to differentiate your qualification and to enhance your future employability.
Northumbria’s Bar Course LLM is led by a team of highly experienced barristers, and supported by our well-established network of guest speakers including members of the Bar, Judges, and other relevant professionals, including forensic scientists.
You will benefit from generous contact hours throughout the course – including dedicated exam-focused teaching sessions – in which the teaching team will share their expertise to support you in preparing for the Bar Standards Board (BSB) centralised assessments.
You may also gain, at no further cost and additional qualification in mediation.
Northumbria delivers many opportunities to develop distinctive knowledge and skills through:
Together these opportunities will allow you to distinguish yourself in a competitive environment and ultimately thrive in this prestigious profession.
Our flexible suite of Bar Courses offers you the opportunity to learn in the way that suits you best, with part-time , PGDip and separate Bar Knowledge and Bar Skills options available.
Please note: The Bar Course LLM replaces the Bar Professional Training LLM, as the BSB-regulated vocational stage of training for those who wish to become a barrister in England and Wales.
Take a look at our Law school and the opportunities available to you.
Your Bar Course LLM at Northumbria will be immersive, practice-focused and extremely supportive.
We will deliver the knowledge modules over both semesters, through a combination of lectures, seminars and tutorials.
Integrated with the knowledge modules, you will develop your skills through  practice streams focusing on the foundational areas of practice in pupillage and the junior Bar.
You will practise Advocacy, Conferencing, Drafting and Opinion Writing in realistic scenarios with the ability to access briefs entirely electronically – as in many areas of modern practice.
We are enthusiastically supported by the broader Bar and Judiciary, who often deliver in-course and extra-curricular teaching as part of the Practitioner Programme – with a strong emphasis on the development of your Advocacy skills.
The quality of our teaching at Northumbria has been recognised through a variety of awards and nominations.
This is a valuable aid in the process of self-reflection, critical thinking and continual improvement.
You will experience research-rich learning in both the knowledge and skills elements of the Bar Course LLM, through enquiry-based tasks, case analysis and engagement with legal research.
On successful completion of the Bar Course LLM you will be fully prepared for the demands of practice, and will be eligible for call to the Bar of England and Wales (subject to meeting the requirements of your Inn of Court).
The course will build on your existing legal knowledge and equip you with the knowledge, skills and attributes set out in the Professional Statement for Barristers and necessary for practice as an effective and successful legal professional.
The addition of a Masters in Law further offers you the opportunity to enhance your profile and experience by gaining an internationally recognised LLM qualification in addition to your Bar Course.
Additional costs include: The Inn membership fee which was between £100 and £148 in 2023.
LW7124 -
LLM Bar Project (Optional,60 Credits)
This module is an opportunity for you to devise, develop and complete a substantial piece of independent research at Masters level, in dissertation form, on a legal topic of your choice linked to your study on the Bar Course.
You will work under the guidance of a project supervisor, using the knowledge and understanding you have gained on your qualifying law degree and on the Bar Course LLM The LLM Bar Project module focuses on the development of skills in three key areas: problem identification and analysis, research and information gathering and the written presentation of results.
You will develop your ability to undertake legal research, addressing complex and current issues in your subject area.
You will also engage critically with research material and analyse current skills and practice.
The LLM Bar Project module will also develop your skill in effectively formulating, communicating and presenting written argument to both a specialist and non-specialist audience.
LW7125 -
LLM SLO Bar Project (Optional,60 Credits)
The Student Law Office (SLO) is an in-house law clinic within the Law School at Northumbria University.
The LLM SLO Bar Project is a year-long module on the Bar Course LLM which allows you to experience both the real-world of legal practice, working within the award winning SLO, whilst also developing an extended piece of in-depth critical research leading to the award of a Masters in Law.
As a Bar student in the SLO you will work on real cases under the supervision of practitioner members of staff.
Through real and simulated experiences with clients, you will develop range of key lawyering skills, as well as effective workplace skills and enhance your own interpersonal skills.
Your work may cover a range of substantive law areas which may include crime, civil litigation, family, welfare benefits, employment or housing.
In addition, you will learn about and critically evaluate the practical and procedural factors that can influence the outcome of a case.
You will work with your supervisors to develop the ability to reflect on your learning.
Throughout your time in the SLO you will learn to reflect independently on, and critically analyse, an aspect of professional practice stemming from your time in the SLO or as a result of legal inquiry related to the broader concept of professional practice.
You will be able to identify and utilise an appropriate research methodology to conceptualise, theorise and undertake research into practice-based issues.
This reflection is at the heart of the clinical experience, enabling you not only to learn from your learning but also to fit your individual experiences into a wider context of personal and professional ethics, and the social and economic contexts of law.
You will be required to produce an in-depth and extended piece of critical commentary.
This will advance your understanding and knowledge of professional practice and/or the issues relevant to practising law.
This extended piece of critical work will be submitted at the end of Semester 3.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/master-of-law-bar-course-llm-dtpbte6:
You may also gain, at no further cost, an additional qualification in mediation.
Our flexible suite of Bar Courses offers you the opportunity to learn in the way that suits you best, with Full TIme , PGDip and separate Bar Knowledge and Bar Skills options available.
Integrated with the knowledge modules, you will develop your skills through practice streams focusing on the foundational areas of practice in pupillage and the junior Bar.
You will experience research-rich learning in both the knowledge and skills elements of the Bar Course, through enquiry-based tasks, case analysis and engagement with legal research.
Additional costs include:  the Inn membership fee which was between £100 and £148 in 2023.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bar-knowledge-course-dtpbkt8:
The Bar is a demanding profession, and our Bar Knowledge Course and Bar Skills Course give you the flexibility to break your learning down into two separate stages, while still receiving the very best possible legal training.
The Bar Knowledge Course focuses on giving you the opportunity to acquire all of the knowledge you need to prepare you for the rigours of the Bar.
Taught largely through realistic case studies, or briefs, you will study the two centralised assessment modules, Civil Litigation and Criminal Litigation.
You will benefit from the highest quality of practice-informed teaching, taught by staff who are professionally qualified as either barristers or solicitors with strong staff-student contact and tailored feedback.
You will also benefit from generous contact hours throughout the course – including dedicated exam-focused teaching sessions – in which the teaching team will share their expertise to support you in preparing for the Bar Standards Board (BSB) centralised assessments.
The programme makes the best use of facilities such as Northumbria’s extensive IT provision and dedicated legal practice library.
Close links with the Bar and judiciary enhances networking opportunities and employment prospects.
Successful completion (40 credits) will mean you are eligible to move on to the Bar Skills Course, which aims to help you build on the knowledge you've acquired and develop the skills necessary for you to practice as a barrister.
Successfully completing both stages (120 credits) is equivalent to completion of the Bar Course and leads to a Postgraduate Diploma in Bar Vocational Training and means you will ultimately possess the attributes set out in the Professional Statement for Barristers and be eligible for Call to the Bar of England and Wales (subject to meeting the qualifying requirements of your Inn of Court).
The Bar Knowledge Course and the Bar Skills Course ultimately prepare you for pupillage and training as a barrister, but also a highly successful career not only at the Bar, but across the legal profession, business and politics.
Our flexible suite of Bar Courses offers you the opportunity to learn in the way that suits you best, with part-time, LLM and PGDip options available.
Find out more information about applying for our Bar Courses .
Please note: The Bar Knowledge and Skills Courses, when both are taken, replace the Bar Professional Training Course, and provide an alternative BSB-regulated vocational stage of training for those who wish to become a barrister in England and Wales.
Mode of Study 1 year Part Time
The Bar Knowledge Course at Northumbria will be immersive, practice-focused and extremely supportive.
We will deliver the knowledge modules Criminal Litigation and Civil Litigation, through a combination of lectures, seminars and tutorials.
Senior Lecturer & Assistant Professor
The Bar Knowledge Course allows you to build on your existing legal knowledge and take the first step to pursuing a career as a barrister.
Choosing this alternative barrister training route, gives you a more flexible way to gain the knowledge set out in the Professional Statement for Barristers, so that you can move on to develop the skills and attributes needed to practice as a successful legal professional.
Watch four of our BTPC alumni Northumbria talk about their experiences, and their flourishing careers as barristers at Trinity Chambers and Dere Street here in Newcastle.
Full UK Fee:
                                £3,300
Full International Fee:
                                £3,300
"The fees above include the Bar Standards Board fee (which was £705 in September 2023 - £470 for the Bar Knowledge Course and £235 for the Bar Skills Course, where students elect to take one of these programmes as opposed to the full Bar Course - and which is subject to change each year thereafter at the discretion of the BSB): Upon joining the course, you will be provided with the core textbooks that you require for your studies (you may purchase additional texts if you wish, but they will not be ‘recommended reading’ and you may find that the University library has copies of any additional texts that you may wish to browse/refer to).

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bar-skills-course-dtpbsk6:
Building on your learning from successfully completing the Bar Knowledge Course, the Bar Skills Course focuses on giving you the opportunity to develop the skills and attributes you will need to practice at the Bar.
Through working on realistic briefs, you will develop your skills in Advocacy, Conferencing, Drafting and Opinion Writing.
Successfully completing both stages (120 credits) is equivalent to completion of the Bar Course and leads to a Postgraduate Diploma in Bar Vocational Training and means you will ultimately possess the attributes set out in the Professional Statement for Barristers and be eligible for Call to the Bar of England and Wales (subject to meeting the qualifying requirements of your Inn of Court.)
Find out more information about applying for our Bar Courses.
The Bar Skills Course at Northumbria will be immersive, practice-focused and extremely supportive.
Building upon the knowledge modules taken on the Bar Knowledge Course, you will develop your skills through practice streams focusing on the foundational areas of practice in pupillage and the junior Bar.
The Bar Skills Course allows you to build on the knowledge gained on the Bar Knowledge Course and develop the skills and attributes you will need to practice as a successful barrister.
Successful completion of the Bar Skills Course and the Bar Knowledge Course will mean you are ready to apply for pupillage and train as a barrister.
The skills you learn would be useful not only at the bar, but in careers across Law, Business and Politics.
Full UK Fee:
                                £9,900
Full International Fee:
                                £9,900
The fees above include the Bar Standards Board fee (which was £705 in September 2023 - £470 for the Bar Knowledge Course and £235 for the Bar Skills Course, where students elect to take one of these programmes as opposed to the full Bar Course - and which is subject to change each year thereafter at the discretion of the BSB): Upon joining the course, you will be provided with the core textbooks that you require for your studies (you may purchase additional texts if you wish, but they will not be ‘recommended reading’ and you may find that the University library has copies of any additional texts that you may wish to browse/refer to).

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-big-data-and-data-science-with-advanced-practice--london-subject-to-validation-dtsbdd6:
It has been reported that the employment of data scientists is projected to grow 36% from 2023 to 2033, much faster than the average for all occupations (US Bureau of Labor Statistics, 2025).
However this growth will not just be in the US, but worldwide as more and more businesses plan to embrace digital transformation.
Data Scientists carry out applied research to create innovative data-driven solutions to business problems.
Usually, they work with large, complex, varied, and unstructured data sets that are not suitable for using traditional data analysis approaches and techniques.
This programme is specifically designed to enable you to develop this in-depth technical knowledge that will allow you to discover new data-driven solutions.
To accelerate your learning, you will be exposed to theories, methods, tools, and technologies (including SPSS and Tableau software packages; MySQL, Python, R language or similar) relating to the design, development and testing of data science applications for business intelligence.
You will train and deploy distributed machine learning models using a cloud-based platform such as Google Cloud, Microsoft Azure or AWS or similar and machine learning technology using TensorFlow.
You will also be exposed to the fundamental concepts, principles, technologies, and techniques of big data analytics.
You will be able to apply this knowledge and skill in your context, and critically analyse the implementation and recommend future improvements.
Recognising that information governance and cyber security are critical to the adoption and use of computing systems in businesses and organisations, you will also cover fundamental concepts, principles, techniques and tools of information governance and cyber security.
This Master’s programme has been designed to ensure that graduates will be equipped to work in a variety of careers in the IT industry or to progress to academic or research-orientated careers.
Indeed, the qualification is designed to accelerate your skills and competence in a range of job roles, including roles in leadership and management such as:
Furthermore, this programme will prepare you to meet the educational requirements of the BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT for the purposes of meeting the further learning academic requirement for registration as a Chartered IT Professional.
Advanced Practice:
Applicants who are not graduates and do not hold professional qualifications of equivalent standing can also be considered for entry if they show evidence of strong motivation and capability for academic study and personal development (e.g.
evidence of attendance at short courses) and/or suitable experience of working in areas which involve a significant amount of Information Technology.
All modules on this course are core and 20 credits unless otherwise stated
Applied Data Science In this module, you will develop a critical understanding of applied data science methods, techniques and tools.
You will learn how to manage, manipulate and model data in its various forms and harness its potential for business intelligence.
We will look at scientific methods and the fundamental statistical approaches used for predictive modelling applied to real-world problem scenarios, using state of the art tools and technologies including the use of programming languages such as SQL, Python or similar, and tools such as Power BI, Tableau or similar.
In addition, we will investigate the visualisation of data and consider how the findings from data science projects can be communicated to various target audiences.
Big Data Analytics This module provides you with in-depth coverage of fundamental concepts and principles of big data and the analytical techniques and technologies used for big data analytics.
Big data analytics relates to the use of advanced analytical techniques applied to vast volumes of rapidly changing diverse data sets to gain knowledge, insights and uncover hidden patterns from data.
Such insights and knowledge provide a competitive advantage to businesses and organisations and also help them inform their decisions to transform their businesses.
You will develop the ability to apply statistical and big data science techniques to large-scale data sets by using a unified analytics framework and programming environment such as Jupiter Notebook, VS Code, Google Collaboratory, or similar.
You will learn how to analyse large organisational data assets (including text and web data) and create data-driven solutions to real-world problem scenarios to advance the knowledge base used for business intelligence.
Professional Practices in Computing and Digital Technologies Project (60 credits) This module is a 60-credit module which will be delivered across your programme (3 semesters) and is designed to build your confidence and capabilities as a postgraduate student, researcher and have the graduate skills to progress into high skilled employment or doctoral study.
In this module, you will develop a critical understanding of applied data science methods, techniques and tools.
This module provides you with in-depth coverage of fundamental concepts and principles of big data and the analytical techniques and technologies used for big data analytics.
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study 1 year MSc Big Data and Data Science Technology .
However, the internship placement is not guaranteed by the university.
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study the MSc Big Data and Data Science Technology with Advanced Practice .
IELTS 6.5, with no single element below 5.5, or equivalent

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-biochemistry-extended-degree-uusxch1:
By combining aspects of biology and chemistry, this course studies modern biochemistry at the molecular level, to enable students to understand the biological processes that influence all living organisms.
As a Biochemistry graduate, you will leave Northumbria University with the skills to prepare you for a future of life-long learning and a choice of careers, across a variety of scientific discipline areas including:
The placement option on the course, which takes place between the
    second and final years, has allowed our students to work alongside
    industry leaders  such as GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) and Proctor &
    Gamble.
Northumbria is ranked top 20 in the UK for Chemistry studies (Times Good University Guide, 2025).
Diverse
    subject coverage including analytical chemistry, medicinal chemistry, cell
    biology, genetics, and more.
City
    centre location: Ellison Building provides state-of-the-art facilities for
    our 3,500 STEM students in the centre of Newcastle.
See other similar courses you may be interested in: Biomedical Science BSc , BSc Chemistry , Forensic Science BSc
It includes a foundation year which has been designed to provide fundamental scientific knowledge and skills in a range of science fields.
Your foundation year will give you a practical introduction to biology, chemistry, food science and forensic science, establishing your laboratory skills, basic numeracy skills, data handling, ICT and study skills.
You’ll be taught in large, modern, well-equipped labs with audio-visual facilities to enhance our ability to demonstrate techniques or interesting observations.
UCAS Code Z041
Students begin their course with an introduction to the range of subjects fundamental to the application of biochemistry, covering biological, medicinal and analytical chemistry, together with cell biology and genetics.
First year students will actively participate in laboratory practical sessions, to assist their understanding of the theoretical material delivered in lectures.
In the second year, students will further their knowledge and skills base across a range of topics integral to the study of biochemistry including human metabolism, molecular biology, cellular and molecular analysis, genetics, bioinformatics, organic chemistry and analytical methods.
Prior to the third year, students can choose to complete a placement year either in the UK, or internationally.
The prospect of gaining industrial experience is a fantastic opportunity and it can make a real difference at the job application and interview stage, when students enter the post-graduation marketplace.
During the final year of the programme there is a chance for students to specialise their studies, when they undertake a year-long, laboratory based, research project in a particular biochemical discipline.
The project is individual to each student and is designed to accelerate learning, technical ability and confidence.
The projects are conducted each Friday across both semesters of the final year, in modern, well equipped laboratories housed in the Department of Applied Sciences at the City Campus of Northumbria University.
Furthermore, students have the option to pick modules designed to suit their specific interests and begin to develop their own specialisms, the option choices include Genomics and Industrial Biochemistry and Bio-catalysis.
Independent learning is a key component of the programme and a number of modules are based around this premise, leading to students being able to problem solve and work independently – skills much sought after by the employers of today.
The advantage of a nurtured curiosity, generated from a range of problem-solving modules, is that it creates analytical and critical thinking graduates with clearly evidenced opinions.
Graduates of the Biochemistry course will have developed an ability to recognise, apply and adapt biochemical concepts in the wider scientific community, including those that are specifically related to the real world.
The highly qualified, research leading staff in the Department of Applied Sciences academic team, are a group of experts from varied scientific discipline areas, with a wealth of knowledge, as well as industrial and academic experience.
They share a knowledge of, and passion for science, which is passed on to our undergraduate students, via a variety of teaching and assessment methods.
As well as staff from the Department of Applied Sciences, the Biochemistry programme has been specifically designed to incorporate input from industrial scientists, who offer their sector specific knowledge and experience to the more applied areas of the programme.
For over 20 years the department has welcomed external professionals from the NHS, Proctor & Gamble, Akzo Nobel, and other innovative businesses at the cutting edge of bio-sciences, to share their knowledge and industrial experience with our students.
The Department of Applied Sciences at Northumbria University offers state-of-the art facilities, for both teaching and research.
The BSc Biochemistry programme has a strong hands-on practical component throughout, so students can learn the latest techniques and practical laboratory based skills.
Teaching sessions are conducted in recently refurbished, well-equipped laboratories and lecture theatres with leading audio-visual facilities to enhance the learning experience.
The department has invested heavily in its facilities, acquiring some of the latest high tech scientific equipment, required for research in this discipline area.
In 2018 a new tissue culture suite was added to the extensive number of teaching and specialised research laboratories within the department.
The Department of Applied Sciences also hosts an ‘Omics laboratory facility, with a range of next generation sequencing equipment, supported by excellent technical staff.
This laboratory facilitates proteomic and metabolomic research, supporting our world class academics and keeping at them at the forefront of research in this fast evolving scientific field.
Facilities and equipment are key when it comes to students undertaking their final year research project.
Access to specialised scientific equipment allows students to gain hands on experience using equipment such as NMR, HPLC-MS, as well as data from the ‘Omics facility, leading to excellent project opportunities.
All this provides Northumbria students with a high quality research experience, which is directly applicable to the biochemical discipline area and will enhance future career opportunities for our graduates.
Take a look at the facilities in the Applied Sciences department.
I enjoy spending a lot of time in the University laboratories; it gives us vital experience and helps to improve our knowledge.
Jason Young
Discover more about the facilities available for Applied Sciences students.
Research is embedded throughout the BSc Biochemistry course, to ensure that the skills and knowledge that students will acquire are at the forefront of this key scientific discipline area.
As the course has been developed and is delivered by our research-active teaching team, we have ensured the integration of our research knowledge and experience into all areas of day-to-day teaching.
Having access to research-active mentors means that students pursue contemporary research areas and disciplines throughout the programme.
In the final year, alongside their project, students will participate in the ‘Current topics in Biochemistry’ module, designed and taught by research academics, to discuss and deliver real examples of the latest research in biochemistry by the researchers themselves.
Students get the opportunity to delve deeper into specific topic areas within Biochemistry, thus gaining a greater understanding of the issues and the very latest research.
After an introduction to the topic area by an academic, students then independently review the latest publications from leading scientists, then present their finding to their peers.
This module is designed to allow students to embrace independent research and also helps to prepares them for their final year projects and potentially a future research career.
As a Biochemistry graduate you will not only have gained expert, subject-specific knowledge, but you will have also secured a whole host of wider skills to support your future career choices.
The interactive nature of this course, with its research informed teaching, alongside the final year project means graduates from the programme will have the edge they need to stand out within a competitive employment marketplace.
Students who undertake a placement year are more likely to secure employment after graduating and the majority of students who embrace this opportunity find the insight into working life extremely worthwhile.
There are a wide-range of possible employment and study options post-graduation from the Biochemistry course.
The programme acts as a feeder route for graduating students to enter Northumbria’s postgraduate opportunities in Biotechnology, Microbiology, Forensic Science or Nutritional Science and other developing post graduate opportunities at Northumbria.
Equally for those who are eager to go straight into employment, graduates can chose a whole range of career paths in the chemical, pharmaceutical, nutritional, health sciences or research arenas.
Business is booming in the Science sector and the Department of Applied Sciences students thrive post-graduation!
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Biochemistry.
AP0402 -
Fundamentals of Analytical Chemistry (Core,20 Credits)
This module will cover the following: • An introduction to the fundamental principles of analytical chemistry.
• Consolidation of the knowledge of empirical formulae and balancing of chemical equations.
• An introduction to the theory and practice of titrimetry, gravimetry, flame photometry and spectrophotometry for analysis.
• Theory and hands on experience of chromatographic techniques for separation and analysis of mixtures.
AP0403 -
Principles of Chemical Structure (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will learn about the theoretical building blocks of structural chemistry and the tools and rules that enable us to predict structure and reactivity in chemical compounds.
This is the keystone for much for the language and understanding of chemistry required at a higher level where structural chemistry informs the properties and behaviours of more complex chemical systems such as drugs and medicine, materials and plastics, and many more.
The learning journey for this module starts at the atomic level and moves through to the molecular level taking in the following broad topics and their related competencies.
• Atomic and electronic structure, isotopes, electron configurations, the periodic table and the importance of valence electrons • Bonding theories, covalent and ionic bonding, ionic and covalent structures • Lewis and VSEPR approaches to structure prediction for main group compounds • Acid and base chemistry • Coordination chemistry of the metals, structures and geometries, isomerism, basic reactions • Organic structures, isomerism and nomenclature • Organic stereochemistry, geometric and optical isomerism, Cahn-Ingold-Prelog rules and definitions, chirality and the language of stereochemistry.
• Electron movement and structural consequences, resonance and tautomerism • Basics of structural transformation in organic systems, intro to organic mechanism and curly arrows, electrophiles, nucleophiles and common reaction types and functional groups transformations • Introduction to organic synthesis, oxidation and reduction, common reagents and pathways.
AP0404 -
Cell Biology and Genetics (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about the diversity of life and the unifying cell theory including,  DNA as the universal information store and the central dogma of molecular biology as the unifying mechanism in all life.
You will learn the structure and function of cells and the organelles they contain along with their life cycle, division, self-replication and eventual death.
You will learn the basic principles of heredity, including molecular, classical , human and microbial genetics.
You will learn the structure, function, regulation of genes and genomes.
You will also learn the fundamentals of applied genetics including an introduction to clinical genetics and the identification of genetic mutations and polymorphisms and their influence on disease processes.
Underpinning these theoretical concepts and principles covered in the lecture course you will be trained in basic techniques of handling DNA in the laboratory.
AP0406 -
Practical Skills (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will learn the primary skills required to be a student of a science degree.
These skills will cover both laboratory based and data/information retrieval and handling.
As part of the laboratory skills you will study the importance of health & safety, ethics and appropriate sample handling.
You will then move into the laboratory where hands on sessions offer you an opportunity to develop key skills in areas of liquid handling, microscopy, buffers, making solutions and dilutions, and enzymatic analysis.
You will use your generated laboratory data to then study and understand appropriate methods of data manipulation and presentation.
You will also on this module gain experience and confidence in searching for, understanding of and appreciation of scientific literature.
AP0415 -
Introduction to Biological and Medicinal Chemistry (Core,20 Credits)
This module will explore the fascinating world of Biological and Medicinal Chemistry and build from your basic understanding of core chemistry gained elsewhere in the programme.
You will gain knowledge and understanding about the structures and properties small biomolecules such as amino acids, purine and pyramidine bases and carbohydrates and lipids.
You will gain an in depth understanding about the structures of biopolymers such as proteins and nucleic acids and the broad variety of complexes they participate in.
You will understand how the structure and function correlate and how the weak (non-covalent) interactions such as hydrogen bonds, electrostatic interactions and van der Waals interactions play vital role for formation and stabilization of the structures in biological macromolecules.
You will understand how enzymes work, what the catalytic strategies of the cell are and how the enzyme mechanisms can be realized chemically.
You will learn about enzyme kinetics, inhibition.
Attention will be given to the receptors and how they interact with external signals and deliver the signal within the cell.
You will then gain knowledge about the main steps and reactions of metabolism (both biosynthesises and catabolism) and you will gain key insights into the biochemical aspects of DNA replication and gene expression.
Based on the solid understanding of Biological Chemistry you will then explore the fundamentals of Medicinal Chemistry.
You will understand the basic concepts of pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics, drug discovery, design and development.
You will be taught basic elements of combinatorial and parallel synthesis, QSAR, computer-aided drug design.
You will gain an insight into antibacterial, antiviral and anticancer drugs structure and action.
Practical laboratory and computer classes will provide you with key practical skills for working with enzymes and will introduce you to basic tools for computer visualizations and evaluation of small and large molecules and their interactions.
AP0417 -
Practical and Professional Skills for Chemists (Core,20 Credits)
This is a laboratory based module where you will learn and develop a range of basic laboratory skills necessary to further study, research and a professional environment, and these will form the basis for more advanced laboratory procedures to follow in later years.
You will undertake a variety of interesting investigational experiments which cover core areas of organic, inorganic, analytical and physical branches of chemistry and which will develop skills and techniques, whilst also illustrating key concepts of chemistry found in other parts of the programme.
On completion of this module you will be able to: i) use a variety of laboratory techniques and skills in a safe and efficient manner; ii) interpret the results of laboratory investigations; iii) present the results of laboratory work in a coherent manner.
You will also develop professional skills such as a basic understanding of Health and Safety protocols and good laboratory practice, problem-solving and analytical skills, team work, organisation, and communication skills.
JE5001 -
Academic Language Skills for Applied Sciences (Core – for International and EU students only,0 Credits)
AP0511 -
Molecular Biology and Genetics (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn the basic principles of molecular biology and gain an understanding of how the many different modern techniques can be applied to understanding genetics at the level of the nucleic acids - deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA).
You will learn why and how DNA and RNA can be manipulated in the laboratory in order to clone and sequence DNA, and produce useful proteins.
In addition, you will gain practical experience in representative molecular biology methods and understanding in the context in which they are used.
You will also learn how mutations in DNA can lead to human disease and discover the techniques that have been developed to identify normal and mutant DNA sequences in complex mixtures.
There will be a focus on the use of molecular biology in understanding human genetics, in particular the diagnosis of disease at the chromosome and nucleic acid levels, and also the methods used for testing and screening for genetic susceptibility.
You will learn how techniques have been developed to sequence the human genome and to identify individuals based on features within their DNA.
The broader influence of molecular biology in non-human species will be included in your learning using examples of applied genetics.
AP0514 -
Human Metabolism (Core,20 Credits)
In ‘Human Metabolism’ you will learn of how the body breaks down various biological molecules such as sugars, fats and proteins to gain energy and how it converts these molecules into the other various essential components required to function normally.
You will learn about the disorders that can arise and the resulting consequences, with a food and nutritional sciences approach.
Consequences such as malnutrition, vitamin deficiencies, diabetes and obesity will be discussed.
You will learn about these various aspects in a system/organ-specific manner which will include the liver, the kidneys, heart and digestive tract, allowing you to clearly understand the relationship between normal and disrupted function.
AP0517 -
Bioinformatics and Molecular Biology (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn information technology and computing sufficient to comprehend the theoretical basis of bioinformatics; the principles and basic applications of various bioinformatics tools in the analysis of biological data; and practical competence in the use of bioinformatics at a basic level to analyse biological data and understand the limitations of these techniques.
You will also learn how to perform molecular biology experiments in a competent and safe manner; be able to carry out work independently; be able to write in a concise and coherent fashion; and be able to demonstrate an awareness of the wider social and political implications of the topics covered in the module.
AP0526 -
Organic Chemistry (Core,20 Credits)
This module will build on your learning from the previous year in Principles of Chemical Structure.
You will learn and develop further both your theoretical and practical skills in organic chemistry that are essential in modern chemistry-based jobs.
For example, you will learn about key aspects of molecular structure of organic molecules, the molecular basis for their reactivity, how to devise synthetic schemes for target compounds, and about modern synthetic tools that are used in the everyday synthesis of organic chemicals.
You will also further develop your practical, interpretive and reporting skills in the laboratory.
AP0529 -
Analytical Methods (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about the principal features of chromatographic and spectroscopic techniques, including: ?
Survey of separation science.
?
Fundamentals of HPLC with respect to isocratic and gradient elution, reversed and normal phase separation and detectors.
Fundamentals of capillary GC with respect to isothermal and temperature programmed elution, selection of column and detectors.
Theoretical aspects of separation, capacity factors, resolution, theoretical plate height (efficiency), peak tailing and the influence of these parameters on separation.
Theoretical aspects of modern and traditional sample preparation techniques.
Overview of spectroscopic methods.
NMR spectroscopy: basic instrumentation and experimental aspects; Pulse-Fourier Transform methods; spectral appearance and interpretation for 1H and 13C NMR spectroscopy; splitting patterns for common 1st and 2nd order systems; advanced methods; DEPT spectra.
IR spectroscopy: basic instrumentation and experimental aspects; interpretation and prediction of spectra, vibrational modelling.
Mass spectroscopy: basic instrumentation and experimental aspects, ionisation techniques; fragmentation patterns, interpretation and prediction of spectra.
Strategy and practice in structure elucidation.
Laboratory exercises will be used to underpin the theory taught in lectures, develop practical skills and afford hands-on experience of relevant techniques.
In addition, there will be in-module assignments allowing you to explore the merits and approaches necessary to solve typical spectroscopic problems.
AP0553 -
Bioscience Research & Analysis (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will explore and apply the fundamental biological and chemical principles used to develop important analyses in modern bioscience.
You will learn how the composition of complex mixtures of molecules are analysed and interpreted to support clinical diagnosis or to illuminate bioscience research.
Additionally, the use of cell culture to support biomedical analyses in cytotoxicity testing and also their responses to modelled pathophysiological challenges in biomedical research will be an important and exciting feature.
You will learn about performing clinical diagnostics and its underpinning quality assurance.
As well as the content illustrating important biological and analytical principles, the mode of assessment will develop your generic research skills in literature searching and evaluation, data analysis, critical appraisal of methodologies and report writing to prepare you for your final year research project and beyond in life as a professional scientist.
Professionalism will be fostered through developing an understanding of the requirements needed for a modern diagnostic laboratory.
AP0536 -
Study Abroad (Optional,120 Credits)
This study abroad module is designed for standard full-time undergraduate programmes to provide you with the option to take an additional one year study abroad within your programme.
Study abroad provides an opportunity to develop personal skills in a different learning environment with a partner university.
The module does not affect the classification of your degree, but if successfully passed the study abroad year is recognised in your transcript and degree certificate.
There is a competitive selection process for placements and places cannot be guaranteed.
AP0552 -
Industrial Placement Year (Optional,120 Credits)
The Industrial Placement Year module is a full year 120 credit module which is available on degree courses which include a Industrial Placement year which is taken as an additional year of study between levels 5 and 6.
You will undertake a year of Industrial Placement at an approved placement partner.
This broadens your overall experience of learning by embedding your current and future learning of your discipline within a regimented and target-oriented work environment.
The course of Industrial Placement will be dependent on the partner and will be recorded for an individual student on the learning agreement signed by the host, the student, and the home University (Northumbria).
Your Industrial Placement year will be assessed on a pass/fail basis.
It will not count towards your final degree classification but, if you pass, it is recognised in your transcript as a 120 credit Industrial Placement Module and on your degree certificate in the format – “Degree title (with Industrial Placement Year)”.
AP0606 -
Biomedical and Biological Sciences Research Project (Core,40 Credits)
You will learn how to plan a literature investigation on a specific research topic, exploit appropriate sources and databases to search for information, evaluate and critically review the primary literature articles and assess their significance in the broader context, evaluate experimentation protocols required to carry out the proposed research, conduct experiments in a safe and effective manner and discuss the validity and significance of the data provided, present the project work in the form of an oral presentation and written report in an appropriate style and format.
AP0609 -
Advanced Analytical Techniques (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will explore essential advanced analytical techniques relevant to the practice of modern Biomedical Sciences.
You will learn about the scientific principles underpinning these methodologies and also how they are applied to both medical diagnostics and to research.
You will gain an understanding of genetic engineering strategies and purification of recombinant proteins for analysis.
In addition you will also learn about advanced separation techniques such as flow cytometry and Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) as well as automated enzyme analysis.
You will also gain an insight into cutting edge technologies such as next generation sequencing and microarray technologies in the context of both RNA (transcriptomics), protein (proteomics) and small molecules (metabolomics).
In addition to learning the theoretical aspects and gaining hands-on laboratory experience in these techniques, you will learn to evaluate, compare and make sound evidence-based choices regarding analytical approach and experimental design that will prove a key skill in your future career.
AP0610 -
Genomics (Optional,20 Credits)
Genome scale sequence analysis had transformed our understanding of human disease susceptibility and drug metabolism.
In this module you will learn about the methodologies that have led to this understanding and the production of genome databases.
You will also study both the sequence and the structural variation in the human genome and those variations associated with disease.
The regulatory and epigenetic landscapes including DNA methylation of human genomes will also be studied in detail along with microRNA regulatory networks.
Finally, the application of genomics to improve human health, personalised medicine and develop new diagnostics will be explored.
You will also debate social, legal and ethical aspects of genetic testing.
AP0625 -
Natural Product and Medicinal Chemistry (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about the chemistry Nature uses to biosynthesise useful natural products and how medicinal chemistry is utilised to combat disease.
As you survey Nature’s biosynthetic pathways you will discover how the plethora of naturally occurring molecules are formed from elementary building blocks.
In the area of medicinal chemistry you will explore fundamental principles of drug design and learn about the processes through which drugs act to alleviate disease.
Main topics include: •Biosynthesis of fatty acids, polyketides, terpenes and related biologically relevant molecules •Drug design, applications and mechanisms of actions
AP0631 -
Industrial Biochemistry and Biocatalysis (Optional,20 Credits)
Industrial biochemistry and biotechnology provide us with the opportunity to revolutionise synthetic chemistry and to obtain a wide variety of chemical products through reactions which are considered green and environmentally-sustainable.
In this module you will learn the basic principles of industrial biochemistry and biotechnology in order to gain an understanding of the development and application of modern techniques in the field.
You will learn how enzymes of industrial importance are discovered, including how the application of ever-more powerful computers can assist us with bioinformatics, and how high-throughput screening techniques have rapidly increased the rate at which new enzymes are characterised and developed.
Through the discussion of case studies with a range of experts in the field you will focus on the applications of enzymes, how they are characterised, and how downstream processing is used to separate products from reaction mixtures.
You will study the reuse of these biological catalysts through immobilisation, how batch vs.
flow synthesis affects the purity and yield of products, and you will also consider the environmental and socioeconomic impacts of biocatalysis on the developing world.
AP0632 -
Current Topics in Biochemistry (Core,20 Credits)
The syllabus will be subject to review each year as topics develop, however, the topics will cover research areas such as medical and pharmaceutical biochemistry, genetic variation and gene/environment interactions influencing health, the application of biochemistry/biotechnology in the development of novel therapeutic strategies for disease, drug development, gene therapy and diagnostic tools, applications of biotechnology to genome sequencing projects, e.g.
the role in medicine and drug development, environmental biochemistry, industrial biochemistry, such as treatment of waste-water, remediation of contaminated sites and applications of biotechnology to the production of high value chemicals, consumer products and food.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/biochemistry-bsc-hons-uusbch1:
UCAS Code F115
Grade B in A-level Biology or Chemistry (with both Biology and Chemistry having been studied), or recognised equivalents.
Optional additional costs may include the purchase of textbooks if students want personal copies rather than library texts, and if students wish to carry out some additional printing at their own cost (Cost of textbooks range from £80-100 new or from £30 second hand).

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-biological-sciences-extended-degree-uusxbb1:
Z093
4 years Full Time or 5 years with a placement (sandwich)/study abroad
Applied Sciences
Modules
Module Information
Please note: the first year of entry for this course is September 2026.
For 2025 entry, please visit BSc (Hons) Biology .
Gain a deeper understanding of living systems and investigate the technologies, medicines, and research which will shape their future.
Formerly named 'Biology', this course offers a broad and deep understanding of the scientific study of living things and explores important and rapidly advancing topics in modern science, like biotechnology, biomedicine, and environmental technology.
You can also opt for a specialist pathway of study - meaning you can choose to continue with your broad degree or specialise in biotechnology or neurobiology.
Whichever pathway you choose, there’ll be opportunities for practical work and the chance to apply your knowledge in real-world situations, which can include a sandwich year work placement, study abroad option or work-related training in industry.
This means the course is ideal for anyone considering a career in biosciences, or as a basis for further study at postgraduate level.
AP0407 -
Biochemistry (Core,20 Credits)
This module will provide you with an important and invaluable introduction to the structure and function of the principal molecular components of living systems, including carbohydrates, lipids, proteins and nucleic acids.
In addition, you will learn about the actions and properties of enzymes.
The first part of the module will provide you with a foundation for this by explaining relevant chemical concepts which underpin chemistry in biological systems, including atomic structure, chemical bonding and the nature of molecular interactions.
Then we will consider several carbon containing compounds that are present in biological systems and their chemical and physical properties.
Following this, an investigation will be conducted into the structure, nomenclature, functions and significance of carbohydrates, lipids, proteins and nucleic acids.
The role of proteins as enzymes will also be investigated to provide a foundation for the study of biochemistry in successive years.
AP0408 -
Anatomy and Physiology (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn and understand the basics of Anatomy and Physiology of the Human Body.
You will also be introduced to the pathophysiology of some common diseases.
You will learn about the general organisation of the human body and some of the body systems including the skeletal, muscular, cardiovascular, endocrine, digestive, nervous and respiratory systems.
This module will provide you with the necessary basic knowledge required for the understanding of more advanced biomedical courses.
The content of this module also fulfils the necessary requisites (i.e.
core competencies) for course accreditation purposes with the Association for Nutrition (AfN) for students following the Human Nutrition degree pathway.
AP0412 -
Animal and Plant Biology (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about the diversity of plants and animals that inhabit the Earth and the principles of taxonomy and systematics which provide the basis for the classification of living organisms into hierarchical groupings.
The relationships between form and function will be explored in a selection of representative animals and plants, through the study of the anatomy and physiology of the major plant and animal groups.
You will gain experience of appropriate practical skills for laboratory and field-based investigations and techniques and software used to monitor animal and plant diversity and community composition.
Examples of interactions between plants and animals will be used to illustrate the key concepts in the evolutionary theory and you will learn about current areas of research in animal and plant biology, in the context of challenges to global biodiversity and conservation initiatives.
AP0413 -
Introduction to the Microbial World (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about the range of micro-organisms which will include; bacteria, fungi, yeasts, viruses and single-celled organisms that inhabit the earth.
You will learn about the importance of bacteria, fungi, yeasts and viruses with respect to biotechnology and the bioinformatic approaches that are used to investigate the diverse habitats they inhabit.
You will also learn about the principles of taxonomy and systematics which provide the basis for the classification bacteria, fungi, yeasts, viruses and single-celled organisms into hierarchical groupings.
Underpinning theoretical concepts and principles will be covered in a lecture course that will be informed, illustrated and applied through a strong practical element.
You will be trained in basic techniques of bacteriology and virology involving the selective isolation and identification.
AP0508 -
Biology of Disease (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn the causes and consequences of damage to cells, including those caused by the generation of free radicals.
You will increase your understanding of the pathological bases of cancer, such as characteristics of cancer cells, malignant and benign tumours, tumour suppressor genes, invasion and metastases.
The introduction of the inflammatory processes in the human body underpins taught material in immune diseases later in the module.
You will explore causes, pathophysiology, diagnosis and treatment of many organ disorders: cardiovascular disorders will provide information on areas such as atherosclerosis and hypertension.
Information on diabetes and disorders of the reproductive hormones will be included in the endocrine section.
Chronic obstructive and restrictive diseases will be taught within the respiratory disorders.
Information on reproductive disorders will be taught within the section on infertility in men and women.
AP0515 -
Environmental Biology (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn how animals and plants interact with their environment, and with each other.
How do factors like temperature, drought and the availability of nutrients affect plants and animals?
The module will explore these issues.
This is important, as the current climate change has an impact on both animals and plants.
You will learn how in the course of evolution plants and animals have adapted to different climate conditions.
With regards to plants, you will study how they have adapted not only their morphology, but also their photosynthesis to survive in a range of habitats.
You will learn how animals have adapted their morphology, physiology and biochemistry to respond to variations in different environmental parameters and survive and function in various habitats, including extreme habitats such as the deep sea hydrothermal vents and very dry deserts.
The interaction between plants and animals will also be studied.
AP0516 -
Biology in Action (Optional,20 Credits)
You will learn how to apply your theoretical knowledge and skills to solving new scientific problems in the fields of animal, plant and microbial biology.
Examples from the recent research activity of the tutors teaching on this module will be used to teach you the stages of the scientific method, which starts with having an idea and seeking the answer to a scientific question.
You will be guided through this process in relation to two tasks: a structured problem-based approach to learning about the response of plants to herbicides, followed by a more open task of a small-scale project to investigate animal behaviour in an enriched captive environment.
Your learning journey for each task will start with researching the relevant scientific literature and formulating hypotheses, followed by planning experiments, selecting the most appropriate methods of data collection (laboratory and field-based or via zoo web-cams, respectively), and putting your experimental design into practice and collecting data.
You will then be guided through processing, analysing (including hypothesis-testing statistics), discussing and presenting the data collected in the most appropriate scientific format.
Bioinformatics and Molecular Biology (Optional,20 Credits)
AP0518 -
Investigative Biotechnology (Optional,20 Credits)
You will learn how to conduct a scientific investigation, including how to formulate a scientific hypothesis and then initially write an investigative proposal on how the actual laboratory work will be carried out.
You will learn specific methods that will enable you to safely grow, identify and count various food spoilage micro-organisms.
The effects of these organisms on various beverage products will be investigated by using various scientific methodologies such as Gas Chromatography – Mass Spectrophotometry (GC-MS) and the abundance of certain microbes will be investigated using Next Generation Sequencing.
AP0519 -
Principles of Neuroscience (Optional,20 Credits)
This module develops your understanding of the principle of control of the nervous system over bodily functions.
In addition, you will be introduced to the neuropathology of some common neurological problems.
Topics covered will include neurodevelopment, the somatosensory and motor systems, the autonomic nervous system and its role in homeostatic control, the special senses such as vision, olfaction, gustation and audition, and memory and aging.
This module will provide you with the basic knowledge required for understanding topics covered in more advanced neuroscience modules associated to the BSc Biology (Neurobiology) degree.
AP0520 -
Neuroscience Case Studies (Optional,20 Credits)
You will learn about various Neuroscience Disorders by exploring the cause(s), anatomy and physiology of a disorder, the rationale for tests in assisting in the diagnosis of a disorder, as well as application and ethics associated to treatment of a disorder.
Topics that may be covered include; • Inherited neurological disorders and genetic selection • Movement disorders • Neuromuscular problems • Sensory and/or motor disorders • ANS disorders • Memory loss • Spinal Cord Injury • Rehabilitation.
AP0607 -
Molecular Cell Interactions (Core,20 Credits)
In the early part of the module you will learn about mammalian cell signalling processes correlated with their role in disease pathogenesis and cellular responses to toxic compounds.
These lectures will provide a sound theoretical understanding of concepts that will be further explored in material designed to consider the molecular mechanisms underpinning carcinogenesis.
To augment this approach you will then also learn about the molecular basis of bacterial signalling and bacterial pathogenesis.
As the module further develops you will then learn about therapeutic strategies designed to alleviate disease/pathogenesis.
The content of this material will include the molecular basis of therapeutic design including drug action, chemotherapy and gene therapy.
These lectures will serve to provide a molecular therapeutic complement to the pathogenesis lectures.
Finally through case studies and essay writing you should learn to effectively, and critically, evaluate modern molecular based research.
AP0612 -
The Impact of Science on Society (Core,20 Credits)
The world around us is continually being shaped by science, and by society's relationship to it.
Increasingly people need to be informed users and consumers of scientific knowledge, but are unlikely ever to be producers of new scientific knowledge, thereby highlighting the importance of effective science communication, its impact on public engagement with science and the subsequent public understanding of science.
In this module you will review a range of contemporary bioscience and technology topics in terms of [i] the underpinning research/evidence base, [ii] the associated ethical, legal and social implications (ELSI), [iii] how science is communicated to the public and [iv] subsequent impact(s) on modern society.
Subjects for review will include modern (bio) medical practice such as genetic screening, the allocation of scarce life saving resources, the use of animals as experimental research subjects, and biodiversity conservation.
A case study based approach will be used for delivery of topics.
Transferable skills in reading, research, writing, analysis and presentation will also be covered in the context of effective science communication to enable application of critical thinking skills when reading, writing and talking about science.
An assessment seminar will be form part of the module schedule.
This module will give you the opportunity to explore the changing ethical, legal and social implications of research within the biosciences, with an overall aim of developing graduates who are ready to talk about science, interpret its influences in modern society and analyse contemporary science and technology based issues, so that they are able to communicate their understanding to others and contribute informed views to ongoing debates.
AP0613 -
Current Topics in Biology and Microbiology (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module, there is a strong emphasis on independent work.
The module will start with a short series of lectures, in which current and relevant topics in biology and microbiology will be presented.
These lectures provide you with a basis of knowledge and insight in the topics.
Apart from the factual knowledge, the problems associated with the topics and the scientific approach in the research studies will give you a greater insight in the topics and their scientific and social-economical, agricultural and/or ecological relevance.
You then will explore one of these topics in depth by performing an independent focussed literature study.
You will make extensive use of literature searches using relevant academic databases to gather information on your topic, and to obtain an overview of the current state of knowledge and research in the world wide scientific community in this area.
You will locate and access the relevant data in the scientific literature, compare and contrast these data and critically evaluate your findings in a focussed literature review of your topic.
These are important skills to master – all scientific research starts with exploring and evaluating what is known already.
The module equips you with the skills needed to set up and write a scientific review paper.
AP0614 -
Applied Bioinformatics and Post Genomics (Optional,20 Credits)
You will learn the fundamental importance of bioinformatics to 21st century biology and how it can be applied to the investigation of human disease, and how it shapes research in a post-genomics era.
Topics include: • The human genome • Microarray and next-generation sequencing • Analysis of genome-wide disease datasets • Identification of differentially expressed genes • Construction of classifiers • CRISPR-Cas and its biotechnological applications • Post-genomic approaches to research
AP0615 -
Neuroscience in Practice (Optional,20 Credits)
In both basic neuroscience research, and within the investigation of a neurological disorder, different neuroscience disciplines contribute to the investigation process.
In the lecture/seminar series you will learn about techniques utilised in these investigations and will study aspects of practical Neuroscience to include lecture based discussion on e.g.
Neuroanatomy, Neurophysiology, Molecular neuroscience, Ethics and Law.
Taking the principles you have learned from the lecture/seminar series you will apply these to the creation of a group portfolio on an area of either basic research or disease study.
This will aid you in learning the negotiating and social skills required to successfully navigate team dynamics in a constructive manner.
We encourage our students to graduate with subject-specific knowledge, practical laboratory skills, research skills and more, enabling you to make informed contributions to the understanding of what underpins life here on earth.
Biological Science graduates are sought-after in many specialist fields including biotechnology and medicine, scientific civil service, environmental protection, forensic science and science education, as well as by employers who value their high-level skills in communication, analysis and numeracy.
Many of our recent graduates have gone on to work for leading global organisations including GlaxoSmithKline, Brenntag and Covance, whilst others have gone into teaching and research roles or on to postgraduate studies.
Our expert staff members come from a broad range of backgrounds, including the biotech industries, health care, food technology and consulting.
In addition to regularly contributing to prestigious scientific journals, our staff are all actively engaged in applied research ensuring that they remain at the forefront of changes in biosciences and science education, so that your learning remains current.
Edward Carl Schwalbe
Vartul Sangal
You’ll learn in spacious, modern laboratories fitted with a vast array of highly specialised instruments and equipment to help you get the very most from your studies.
Throughout the course you’ll also utilise Technology Enabled Learning (TEL) which provides online access to module information, key texts, assessment briefs and a range of teaching-related materials.
You’ll also be able to benefit from Northumbria University’s wider facilities, including a 24-hour access library.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-biological-sciences-uuscbb1:
C120
Grade B in A-level Biology, or a recognised equivalent

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/biology-bsc-hons-uusbig1:
The Biology degree offers a broad and deep understanding of the scientific principles of the study of living systems and an introduction to the key issues associated with rapid advances in biotechnology, biomedicine and environmental technology.
It also offers flexibility as you can opt for a specialist pathway of study after your first year - meaning you can either continue with your BSc Biology degree, or choose to specialise in biotechnology or neurobiology.
Whichever pathway you choose, there’ll be opportunities for practical work and the chance to apply your knowledge in real-world situations, which can include a sandwich year work placement, study abroad option or through work-related training in industry.
This means the course is ideal for anyone considering a career in biosciences, or as a foundation for further study at postgraduate level.
As a graduate, you’ll leave with subject-specific knowledge, practical laboratory skills, research skills and more, enabling you to make informed contributions to the understanding of what underpins life here on earth.
Our research environment is rated 100% world leading (REF, 2021).
See other similar courses you may be interested in: BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science .
UCAS Code C100
You’ll learn through a mix of approaches including lectures, tutorials, seminars and practical sessions.
A strong emphasis is placed on applied and problem-based learning which is embedded into each year of study and particularly within the final year research project.
You’ll begin the course with an introduction to a broad range of fundamental subject areas and skills which will be enhanced as you progress and further develop your subject knowledge, laboratory skills, experimental design, data-handling and communication skills.
You’ll also be involved in increasingly complex assignments and practical and field work exercises, with a greater emphasis on group and independent learning.
During your final year you’ll carry out an individual research project in an area of interest.
At this stage, you’ll be expected to exercise independent thought and critically evaluate and synthesize complex subject matter in the fields studied.
Your progression will be supported by guidance to help you achieve good grades and we’ll actively encourage you to develop your creativity and entrepreneurship through really innovative assessment tasks, tailored to each module and level of study.
You’ll be offered a great range of work-related learning opportunities throughout the course, including the option for a sandwich year in industry or to study abroad, between years 2 and 3.
After studying a core first year you can choose to continue on the Biology pathway or go on to specialise in Biotechnology or Neurobiology, to suit your personal interests and aspirations.
In the biology pathway, you will learn more about various aspects and research areas of environmental biology.
The alternative specialism pathways include modules that focus on outcomes of recent research and their applications in biotechnological discipline and in the field of neuroscience, respectively.
During your first year of study you’ll find out more about the modules associated with each pathway, and be invited to choose your preferred option.
They include international experts in their fields who regularly contribute to prestigious scientific journals.
They’re all actively engaged in applied research ensuring that they remain at the forefront of changes in biosciences and science education, so that your learning remains up-to-the minute.
We’re especially proud that staff who teach on this course have won Northumbria University’s student-led awards for assessment and feedback techniques, for the last two years.
The course also has close links with cutting-edge industry, including NZomics Biocatalysis – offering services to companies looking to create sustainable and efficient chemical processes and run by our own academics.
Our students learn from the best inspirational academic staff with a genuine passion for their subject.
Our courses are at the forefront of current knowledge and practice and are shaped by world-leading and internationally excellent research.
Our labs are also equipped with the latest audio visual tools meaning you’ll get a hands-on opportunity to develop your laboratory skills, whilst Technology Enabled Learning (TEL) is embedded in the design of the course to enhance your learning experience.
You’ll also be able to benefit from Northumbria University’s wider facilities including a 24-hour access library and fantastic ICT.
The Department of Applied Sciences has modern laboratory and computing resources for learning, teaching, research, innovation and business engagement.
We’ve got a research-active team of teaching staff and we’ll actively encourage your involvement in research as part of the course.
Each of your modules will include information from recent research articles and staff will use examples from their own research within their teaching.
Particular staff research interests include microbiology, bioprospecting and bioinformatics.
As a student, you’ll get to carry out research for yourself and generate new data from your projects.
Your final year research project will be aligned with staff expertise and research interests, plus staff will continuously offer their own research expertise to help guide your learning throughout the course.
You’ll also be encouraged to join a professional body and attend research seminars and public lectures organised by the University.
As a Biology graduate you’ll not only have gained expert, subject-specific knowledge but you’ll also secure a whole host of wider skills to support your future career choices, including data-handling, complex problem solving and project management.
Biology graduates are sought-after in many specialist fields including biotechnology and medicine, scientific civil service, environmental protection, forensic science and science education, as well as by employers who value their high-level skills in communication, analysis and numeracy.
Your skills will be developed to meet the needs identified by our partners, and your lab-ready skillset will be demonstrated to potential employers through placements and graduate recruitment available once you progress onto the full degree.
I think studying the links between science and its applications within wider society gave me a head start for a career in ecology and conservation because so many of the skills I learnt during my BSc were transferable.
Ben Ralston
Alumnus
I met some of the most engaging and amazing people at Northumbria - I was always encouraged to stretch my thinking beyond what was just being taught in the lecture halls
Eleanor Fulford
Alumna
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Biology.
The programme includes a small number of day trips to relevant field sites.
For sites with easy access by local public transport, students may be asked to make their own way there.
Total cost should be no more than £12.
Final year projects may also involve travel to easily accessible field sites on 8-10 different days, total cost up to £50.
Student membership to the Royal Society of Biology is encouraged, cost is approximately £15 per year.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/biomedical-science-uusbom1:
Accredited by the Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS), our
Biomedical Science degree will provide you with both general and specialist
knowledge in the field of biomedical science.
Focusing on how cells, organs
and systems function in the human body, you will gain an understanding of the
fundamental principles of the pathogenesis of disease and strategies for their
investigation and treatment.
During your second year, there is the option of a one-year
placement within industry or at an accredited NHS training laboratory.
The
placement within the NHS allows you to progress onto the BSc Applied Biomedical
Science course, and upon graduation you can apply for state registration as a
Biomedical Scientist with the HCPC.
Biomedical Sciences at Northumbria is ranked Top 35 in the UK by the Complete University Guide for 2025.
Over 93% of students studying Biomedical Science at Northumbria believed their course positively challenged them to achieve their best work (NSS, 2025).
Guaranteed lab-based research project
Hands on use of modern analytical and research equipment to enhance
    your employability
Option for industrial placement with help to apply
Get involved in real cutting-edge biomedical research during your
    research project
Diverse subject coverage including drug design, microbiology,
    genetics, disease and more...
City centre location
Similar courses you may be interested in: Biology BSc (Hons) and Chemistry BSc (Hons) .
UCAS Code B940
Mode of Study 3 years Full Time or 4 years with a placement (sandwich)/study abroad 1 other options available
This course incorporates all areas of biomedical science, including topics such as cell biology, genetics, biochemistry, anatomy, physiology, immunology, cellular pathology, and disease.
Teaching is delivered via a range of approaches such as
lectures, tutorials and seminars.
Practical classes also form a fundamental
part of this course’s delivery, with learning primarily taking place in
laboratories or, on some occasions, IT suites.
Technology-enabled learning is embedded throughout this
course, with resources such as a virtual learning platform, lecture and
learning materials, online reading lists and a mobile app available to further
support your studies.
Our staff are committed to your learning and will guide you
through every stage of your degree.
This course is delivered by research-active staff and
visiting NHS practitioners to ensure that all teaching is at the forefront of
the industry and relevant to the workplace.
Many of our academics boast memberships and accreditations
to professional bodies and organisations, for example the Heath and Care
Professions Council (HCPC) and the Institute of Biomedical science (IBMS).
Several members of our teaching team are also recognised as
fellows or senior fellows of the Higher Education Academy for their engagement
in excellent teaching and learning practice within the sector.
Our staff are experts in a wide range of individual
specialisms across all areas of biomedical science, meaning you are learning
from the best.
Find out more about how David brings his research into his teaching at Northumbria.
Find out more on how Gary brings his research into his teaching at Northubmria.
The BSc Biomedical Science degree has a strong practical
element and throughout your degree you will have access to state-of-the-art
laboratory equipment that is in line with NHS standards, boasting equipment
such as clinical chemical analysers and tissue culture facilities to name a few.
You will be taught in modern, well-equipped laboratories
with leading audio-visual facilities to enhance your learning experience.
Our laboratories and specialised equipment provide you with
real-world experiences and learning opportunities directly applicable to your
degree subject.
This authenticity is evident in all aspects of the course, from
lectures through to assessment design.
Our research is embedded throughout the degree to ensure
that the skills you develop are at the forefront of the industry.
As the course is delivered by visiting NHS practitioners and
our own research-active team, we ensure that they integrate their knowledge and
experience into all areas of day-to-day teaching.
In your final year you will be given the unique opportunity
to develop new knowledge by participating in research-led learning.
This will
allow you to utilise all of your skills and knowledge, whilst preparing you for
your future career.
Upon graduation you will have an excellent foundation for
future study or research, as well as possessing a range of strong transferable
skills applicable to biomedical science and many other professions.
The course
will equip you with all of the skills necessary to have an impact on health,
diagnosis and the treatment of disease.
You will also have developed skills
such as critical thinking, group work, negotiation, data handling, problem solving,
independent learning and communication.
Your skills from this biomedical science degree can be
applied to a range of careers such as Analytical Chemist, Biomedical Scientist,
Toxicologist and Medicinal Chemist.
And those who choose to do a placement
within the NHS will be able to apply for a state registration as a Biomedical
Scientist with the Health and Care Professional Council (HCPC) upon graduation.
As we are regularly assessed by the IBMS, we ensure students
are suitably trained to progress into a wide range of specialist roles, which
may include work within the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industry or the
NHS.
You may also wish to continue with further study or consider careers in teaching, medical journalism or medical law.
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Biomedical Sciences.
AP0411 -
Introductory Pathological Sciences (40 Credits)
You will learn about the roles of the five major pathology disciplines and their role in investigation and diagnosis of disease processes.
Each pathology discipline, namely; Medical Microbiology, Immunology, Cellular Pathology, Haematology and Transfusion science and Clinical Biochemistry, will be explored providing you with a theoretical understanding of the subject specialism and laboratory based analytical processes and methodologies that lead to disease diagnosis.
This introduction to the fundamentals of Biomedical Science will enable you to identify the roles each laboratory plays in a Pathology Department and in combination with sessions focussed on professional skills will equip you with the skills needed to work in a safe and ethical manner to generate and assess the validity of data used in the diagnosis and monitoring of disease states.
AP0506 -
Microbiology and Immunology (20 Credits)
You will learn about how microbes (particularly bacteria and viruses) interact with their hosts, with an emphasis on the microbiology of humans, in both health and disease.
You will be introduced to the study of the microbiology of key body systems and how the collective microbial constituents in certain physiological ecosystems the so called “microbiome” impacts on human health and diseases.
You will also learn about contemporary methods for the diagnosis of microbial diseases and antibiotic susceptibility testing.
You will develop your knowledge of immunology, particularly in relation to how the immune system monitors and responds to microbial infections, both in health and disease, including links between microbes and the development of, cancers and/or allergic diseases.
In addition you will learn about how immunological approaches can be harnessed for immunodiagnostic and immunotherapeutic applications and how vaccines can be developed and used to prevent infectious disease.
You will further learn about how statistical methods may be applied to the analysis of clinical data collected in individuals with SARS-CoV-2 (including severe COVID-19).
AP0509 -
Cellular and Transfusion Science (20 Credits)
You will develop a knowledge and understanding of cellular and haematological pathology as specialised aspects of diagnostic pathology.
You will learn about normal and pathological aspects of organ and blood histology and the application of routine diagnostic techniques such as processing, microtomy and staining.
In addition you will also develop a sound understanding of the theory and practice of cytology, immunocytochemistry/cytology/electron and light microscopy including its application to blood film examination.
You will learn about theoretical aspects of blood transfusion as well as develop practical competencies in associated techniques.
Interpretation of the results from these practical will help you develop an appreciation of their significance.
This module will build upon the knowledge and practical experience from Introductory Pathology Science.
The roles of the haematology, transfusion and histopathology laboratory in the diagnosis, monitoring and treatment of disease will be explored.
You will integrate aspects of all 3 disciplines through the use of a patient history and case study, applying the theoretical and practical aspects of the material covered in lectures.
AP0510 -
Medical Biochemistry (20 Credits)
In ‘Medical Biochemistry’, you will learn of how the body breaks down various biological molecules such as sugars, fats and proteins to gain energy.
There are a number of cellular pathways through which new biomolecules are synthesised and broken down which is central to normal functioning of the body.
These biochemical pathways/ processes and the consequence of their derangements, which results in diseases or disorders, will be studied.
Additionally, students will understand how the knowledge of biochemical pathways and clinical biochemistry parameter determination can be used in the diagnosis, treatment and monitoring of various abnormal conditions.
You will learn about these various aspects in a Pathway/system/ or organ-specific manner, which will allow you to clearly understand the relationship between normal and disrupted function and how the associated differences link to development of diagnosis tests.
AP0608 -
Pathology in Practice (20 Credits)
“Pathology in Practice” represents the final stages of bringing together the knowledge and experience accrued from previous modules (L5) of the Pathology Specialties (Medical Microbiology/Clinical Immunology; Cellular pathology/Haematology/Transfusion Science; Clinical Biochemistry).
You will learn how to examine and assess the clinical symptoms and resulting results and data presented as a case study.
As a group of 5 students, your team will decide the appropriate testing regime, in order to reach a diagnosis.
This will take the form of preliminary investigations that should point the team in the right direction.
Comprising of group discussions, and guidance from “specialist” tutors in the assessment of demonstrations/practical work, and data acquisition, your team will collectively contribute data, knowledge, and understanding of the test results, to unravel the complexities of the case.
Each student should represent a specialty subject and act as leader in that area.
Once all test results have been examined, your team will decide the appropriate diagnosis of your patient.
Discussions will include any follow up tests that may help in further elucidation of the case.
A prognosis will be expected to be given.
The final exercise will be a student led poster presentation of the case study.
All members of your group will be expected to contribute and answer questions during the presentation.
Peer review is included whereby each student appraises the rest of the team, and awards marks for each person’s contribution.
AP0611 -
Drug Design and Development (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about the drug discovery and development process.
You will be introduced to a range of issues in drug discovery starting with selecting a disease through to identifying a disease target and the type of molecules to be utilised.
For example, in this module, you will learn about cancer as a group of diseases and consider contemporary chemotherapeutic agents.
This module will start by discussing drugs and the testing of drugs within a social and historical setting.
You will learn how drugs interact with and affect their target areas in the human body.
You will then learn about how to evaluate drug properties, the identification of lead compounds and developing these compounds into drugs that are introduced into the clinic.
Topics will include  pharmacogenomics, emerging technologies in personalised medicine, principles of clinical trials and pharmacological methods as well as a consideration of ethical issues.
AP0639 -
Biomedicine In Focus (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about recent developments in biomedicine.
You will be introduced to a range of key research areas relating to new discoveries and developments in contemporary research including new therapies and the development of novel laboratory techniques.
You will also be introduced to a wider perspective on biomedicine with taught sessions looking at the Ethical, Legal and Social Issues connotations of biomedicine and the subsequent impact within modern society.
You will consider the importance not only of understanding complex, modern innovations but of communicating key information with stakeholders, be they patients, clinicians, pathology professionals or the general public.
This module will give you the opportunity to investigate and appraise cutting edge research and explore its implications within the biosciences, with an overall aim of developing graduates who are ready to critically evaluate and discuss research.
You will be able to interpret the influence of new technology in both practice and society, analyse contemporary science and technology based issues and communicate your understanding to others.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/biomedical-science-pt-bsc-hons-dupbom1:
Mode of Study 6 years Part Time 1 other options available
This course incorporates all areas of biomedical science including cell biology, genetics, biochemistry, anatomy, physiology, immunology, cellular pathology, human metabolism, molecular genetics and disease.
In addition, five individual pathology specialisms will be studied including medical microbiology, clinical biochemistry, haematology and transfusion science, and clinical immunology as well as cellular pathology.
Teaching is delivered via a range of approaches such as lectures, tutorials and seminars.
Practical classes also form a fundamental part of this course’s delivery, with learning primarily taking place in laboratories or, on some occasions, IT suites.
Work placements and volunteering are also encouraged.
Technology enabled learning is embedded throughout this course, with resources such as a virtual learning platform, lecture and learning materials, online reading lists and a mobile app available to further support your studies.
Our staff are committed to your learning and will guide you through every stage of your degree.
This course is delivered by research-active staff and visiting NHS practitioners to ensure that all teaching is at the forefront of the industry and relevant to the workplace.
Many of our academics boast memberships and accreditations to professional bodies and organisations, for example the Heath and Care and Professions Council (HCPC) and the Institute of Biomedical science (IBMS).
Several members of our teaching team are also recognised as fellows or senior fellows of the Higher Education Academy for their engagement in excellent teaching and learning practice within the sector.
Our staff are experts in a wide range of individual specialisms across all areas of biomedical science, meaning you can rest assured that you are learning from the best.
The BSc Biomedical Science course has a strong practical element and throughout your degree you will have access to state-of-the-art laboratory equipment that is in line with NHS standards, boasting equipment such as clinical chemical analysers and tissue culture facilities to name a few.
You will be taught in modern, well-equipped laboratories with leading audio-visual facilities to enhance your learning experience.
Our laboratories and specialised equipment provide you with real-world experiences and learning opportunities directly applicable to your degree subject.
This authenticity is evident in all aspects of the course, from lectures through to assessment design.
The real-world relevance of this course and our facilities is clearly recognised by the formal accreditation of Northumbria University’s biomedical science provision, which has been awarded by the Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS).
Take a look at the facilities for the Applied Sciences department.
This research is embedded throughout the BSc Biomedical Science course to ensure that the skills you will develop are at the forefront of the industry.
As the course is delivered by visiting NHS practitioners and our own research-active team, we ensure that they integrate their knowledge and experience into all areas of day-to-day teaching.
Towards the end of your studies will be given the unique opportunity to develop new knowledge by participating in research-led learning.
This will allow you to utilise all of your skills and knowledge, whilst preparing you for your future career.
The frontier of biomedical science has never been so exciting and full of opportunities to understand disease and to improve global healthcare as it is today.
This course will equip you with all of the skills necessary to have an impact on health, diagnosis and the treatment of disease.
Upon graduation you will be prepared to progress into a wide range of specialist roles, which may include work within the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industry or the NHS.
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Biomedical Science.
120 UCAS Tariff points From a combination of acceptable Level 3 qualifications which may include: A level, T Level, BTEC Diplomas/Extended Diplomas, Scottish and Irish Highers, Access to HE Diplomas or the International Baccalaureate
Subject Requirements: Grade B in A level Biology, or a recognised equivalent
UK Fee in Year 1:

                                TBC
Applications for the majority of Part-time and Distance Learning courses should be made direct to the University using the online application form.
The only exception to this is the Part-time Postgraduate Bar Professional Training Course (BPTC) course which has a different application procedure - for information about how to apply for this programme, please visit the Bar Standards Board website.
Whilst most courses do not set an exact deadline for applications, you are advised to apply early to secure your place and organise any sponsorship or funding.
Most courses require at least one reference, but some may need two.
It is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure Northumbria receives a satisfactory academic reference.
If you have not been in education for a number of years, then a reference from your employer may be acceptable.
We try to reply to applicants as soon as possible but you should receive a response within 10 working days, and this will be one of the following.
You will be asked to confirm your acceptance in writing of any offer made.
Fairness and Transparency The University is committed to a system of admissions that ensures fairness, transparency and equal opportunities within the legal framework of the UK and best practice.
All reasonable effort will be made to ensure that no prospective or existing student is unreasonably treated less favourably on the grounds of age, race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, creed, disability, sexual orientation, gender, marital or parental/carer status, political belief or social or economic class, or any other type of discrimination.
Tuition Fee Assessment Tuition fees are set at different levels for Home/EU and International Students.
Before you begin your course the University must establish your tuition fee status.
In many cases, the University will be able to make this assessment without requiring any additional information.
Guidance can be found on the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) website www.ukcisa.org.uk to help you understand how Higher Education Institutions (HEI's) make an assessment on your fee status.
Interviews Applicants who may not have the standard entry qualifications are welcome to apply and may be interviewed.
Some courses will interview as part of the selection process.
This applies particularly to courses in art and design, teaching and health.
Health Screening Applicants for Nursing, Midwifery, Physiotherapy, Occupational Therapy, Primary (Early Years) and Social Work will be required to complete a health questionnaire.
They may be required to attend for doctor or nurse assessment at the University Health Centre.
Prior to beginning their programme, all applicants to Nursing, Midwifery, Physiotherapy and Occupational Therapy are advised to start a course of Hepatitis B vaccinations, available from their own GP.
In addition, Midwifery applicants must provide evidence before they commence training that they are immune to Hepatitis B or have Hepatitis B non-carried status.
Applicants to these courses who have had contact with MRSA in the previous 6 months may be asked to provide evidence that they are not colonised by submitting negative swabs results prior to commencement of training.
Alternatively, they may be screened on commencement of the programme.
All applicants will receive vaccination screening at the University Health Centre on commencement of their programme.
Disclosure of Criminal Background To help the University reduce the risk of harm or injury to any member of its community caused by the criminal behaviour of other students, it must know about any relevant criminal convictions an applicant has.
If you are applying for courses in teaching, health, social work and courses involving work with children or vulnerable adults , you are required to undergo police clearance for entry and will need to complete a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) enhanced disclosure form.
It replaces the Criminal Records Bureau (CRB) and Independent Safeguarding Authority (ISA).
Access to the DBS checking service is only available to registered employers who are entitled by law to ask an individual to reveal their full criminal history, including spent convictions - also known as asking 'an exempted question'.
The University is such a 'registered employer' and will send you the appropriate documents to fill in if you are offered a place in the course.
If you are convicted of a relevant criminal offence after you have applied, you must inform the university immediately.
Do not send details of the offence; simply tell the University that you have a relevant criminal conviction.
You may then be asked to supply more details.
Anti-fraud Checks Please note that the University follows anti-fraud procedures to detect and prevent fraudulent applications.
If it is found that an applicant supplies a fraudulent application then it will be withdrawn.
Plagiarism The University reserves the right to cancel an application or withdraw any offer made if it is found that an application contains false, plagiarised or misleading information.
Northumbria welcomes enquiries and applications from disabled students whether disability is due to mobility or sensory impairment, specific learning difficulties, mental health issues or a medical condition.
Applications from disabled students are processed in the usual way, but applicants should declare their disability at the application stage so that the University can contact them to assess how to meet any support needs they may have.
Disabled applicants may be invited to visit the University so that this can be done in person.
To find out more contact: Disability Support Team Tel +44 (0)191 227 3849 or Minicom +44 (0)191 222 1051
The University has a thriving overseas community and applications from International students are welcome for distance learning programmes.
However, immigration regulations do not allow International students entry to the UK solely for the purpose of attending a part-time taught programme.
Advice is available from:
International Office Northumbria University Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 8ST UK
Email: international@northumbria.ac.uk Tel +44 (0)191 227 4274 Fax +44 (0)191 261 1264
(However, if you have already applied to Northumbria and have a query, please contact internationaladmissions@northumbria.ac.uk or telephone 00 44 191 243 7906)
Provision of Information The University reserves the right at any stage to request applicants and enrolling students to provide additional information about any aspect of their application or enrolment.
In the event of any student providing false or inaccurate information at any stage, and/or failing to provide additional information when requested to do so, the University further reserves the right to refuse to consider an application, to withdraw registration, rescind home fees status where applicable, and/or demand payment of any fees or monies due to the University.
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/biotechnology-dtfbty6:
Recent and relevant biotechnological research is at
the heart of our programme and will culminate in your final module: a 60-credit independent research project, in which you design and implement your own research, and present, analyse and
communicate your data.
It is excellent preparation for a PhD or a research job in the industry.
Given the common expectation for job candidates to have some form of postgraduate qualification, this Masters course offers a route to careers in biotechnology as well as the broader life sciences industry.
If your first degree included the study of genetics and molecular biology, and a research module, you’re well-placed to join us.
Teaching can start in the lab or classroom and then you make the material your own by exploring and applying it.
Technology Enhanced Learning makes this easier; each module has an electronic blackboard site with relevant information including electronic reading lists and access to websites, videos and other study materials that are available anytime, anywhere.
You will undertake assignments within small groups and we provide training in communication skills relevant for scientific communication.
The course aims to foster your ability to work at a professional standard both individually and as part of a team.
Our teaching team maintains close links with biotech companies and research labs, including via on-going roles as consultants, which helps ensure an up-to-date understanding of the latest technical and commercial developments.
Several academics are involved in biotech ventures that make use of the University’s facilities: Nzomics Biocatalysis develops enzyme alternatives to chemical processes, and Nu-omics offers DNA sequencing services.
Dr Rinke Vinkenoog
Dr Lynn Dover
Reader in Microbial Physiology
Dr Meng Zhang
Dr Seth Racey
For cell biology and immunology, we have two multi-user laboratories.
Technologies include assays for measuring immune responses at the single-cell level, and for monitoring the functioning of cells in real time.
Further capabilities include biomarker analysis, flow cytometry, chemical imaging and fluorescence microscopy.
For genomics, proteomics and metabolomics, our capabilities include genomic sequencing, mass spectrometry, 2D protein electrophoresis and nanoflow liquid chromatography.
All our equipment is supported up by highly skilled technical staff who will help you make the best use of all the facilities that are available.
View all Science Facilities
Read more about our specialist laboratories
Explore our campus facilities with 360 panoramas of the Department of Applied Sciences
As a student, you will be heavily engaged in analysing recent insights from the scientific literature.
You will undertake a major individual project in molecular and cellular science that will encompass all aspects of a scientific study.
These include evaluation of relevant literature, design and set-up of experiments, collection and processing of data, analysis of results, preparation of a report and presentation of findings in a seminar.
Mammalian Cell Biology & Immunology Group
Microbiology Group
Employers are looking for the ability to solve problems, think critically, work with others and function independently – which are exactly the attributes that our course develops to a higher level.
During your time at Northumbria, we encourage you to participate in the activities organised by the Career Development Service.
We also encourage you to apply for associate membership of the Royal Society of Biology, with full membership becoming possible once you have at least three years’ postgraduate experience in study or work.
With an MSc Biotechnology, you will be ready to contribute to the changes ahead through a rigorous scientific approach and your grasp of the fundamental knowledge, insights and skills that underlie modern biotechnology.
Scientific research is at the heart of the course and you will strengthen pivotal skills that will enhance your employability in any research-rich environment.
By developing the practices, standards and principles relevant to becoming a bioscience professional, you will also prepare yourself for success in other sectors of the life sciences industry and beyond.
View all Student Profiles
Ademola Adesina
Nigeria
Priscilla Hong
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree in a subject related to biology or biotechnology, including the study of genetics and molecular biology.
AP0700 -
Graduate Science Research Methods (Core,20 Credits)
This module will provide you with an opportunity to develop your skills in the use and understanding of relevant literature and in both quantitative and qualitative methods.
You will learn how to evaluate and contribute to the scientific literature and to interpret and disseminate scientific information.
You will appreciate the desirable properties of research design and be able to select an experimental design appropriate to a given system and create the design matrix.
You will learn how to assess the kinds of scientific data and tests of hypotheses and will be able to select, apply, and interpret the output from statistical methods of data analysis, and to evaluate the results of statistical analyses as applied to a given data set.
Using contemporary science stories, you will develop scientific communication skills in systematic searching, summary writing and critical analysis of the underpinning primary research.
AP0701 -
Molecular Biology (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn to evaluate recent developments in molecular biology in the context of the new techniques that have been developed, which will be assessed by an online test, demonstrate an ability to perform skilled laboratory techniques in a competent and safe manner, which is assessed by practical report, and evaluate laboratory results in the form of a scientific paper, which is assessed by practical report.
You will also learn to demonstrate an awareness of the wider social and political implications of the topics covered in the module.
AP0702 -
Bioinformatics (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn the fundamental importance of bioinformatics to 21st century biology and how it is applied to the investigation of bacterial sequences.
Topics include: •Utilisation of databases for the analysis of nucleotide and amino-acid sequences, including introduction to the algorithms used in sequence alignment and sequence searching •Practical experience of sequence analysis using freely available bioinformatics tools, looking at nucleotide, protein, and genome databases.
These tools include BLAST, SWISS-Prot, PubMed, UCSC Genome Browser •Microbial DNA sequencing and next-generation sequencing •Genome annotation and analysis of SNPs.
•The importance of molecular phylogeny •Genome editing using CRISPR-Cas •Proteomics, covering protein structure analysis and identification of common motifs
AP0703 -
Subject Exploration (Core,20 Credits)
This module allows you to explore a topic related to your Masters programme of your own choosing to an advanced level developing a critical appreciation of the methodologies, recent advances and future potential in that field.
In doing so, you will develop and refine your research skills including information retrieval, evaluative, analytical, and problem solving skills together with group-based written and oral communication skills.
AP0704 -
Industrial Biotechnology (Core,20 Credits)
You will explore various aspects of industrial microbial biotechnology and see how it contributes to the global goal of sustainable industrial development, using easily obtainable renewable feed-stocks to generate a wide range of useful (often biodegradable) products while avoiding the use of environment-damaging materials like petrochemicals.
You will explore the development of traditional biotechnology industries such as the production of amino acids as food additives and the treatment of waste waters and the bioreactors they use.
You will also learn about the use of enzymes in industry and explore the production of a complex enzyme preparation using bioreactors in the laboratory.
You will learn how production strains of microorganisms were isolated and traditionally improved using biochemical principles.
You will learn how the advent of genomic analyses facilitates analysis of hyper-producing strains to understand their productivity and how they can now be rationally designed using the genomic information in the future.
Throughout the module you will consider the practicalities of operating at an industrial scale.
AP0705 -
Current Topics in Biotechnology (Core,20 Credits)
Biotechnology is a fast moving and growing field of science, that impacts on our society and our lives.
In this module, you will explore several areas of biotechnology.
You will learn about genetically modified plants and animals.
What is the scientific background of genetic modification – how is it done, what are the implications, why do we need genetically modified organisms – do we actually need them?
You will learn about the different methodologies of transferring DNA into plants and animals, about the selection mechanisms involved, and about the ectopic expression of the transgenes, and about the effects (wanted and unwanted) on both the host species and the natural or agricultural environment.
You will study a number of case studies in depth, looking at all aspects of the problem and its supposed biotechnological solution.
Biotechnology is of growing importance in the medical world as well.
How can we apply our biotechnological and molecular genetic knowledge in the fight against disease?
You will learn about the role of cell therapies in creating “future cures”, with a focus on stem cell technologies and the production and handling of cell based products.
You will also explore the controversy around biotechnological methods and applications.
You will learn about the ethical, legal and social issues surrounding genetic modification and stem cell research, and get insight into the regulatory bodies, commercial, governmental and social pressures that drive medical biotechnology product development.
AP0708 -
Applied Sciences Research Project (Core,60 Credits)
This module provides you with a vehicle for developing, refining and applying your research skills in an independent project.
Guided by a staff member, you will plan, carry out and report the outcomes of an independent research project to professional standards.
You will identify stakeholders in your research and describe the projected impact your research holds for them.
In order to prepare you for life as a research professional, assessments emulate authentic professional documentary formats aimed at securing project resources and disseminating your findings to ensure they develop real world impact.
JE7000 -
Academic Language Skills (ALS) for PG Applied Science students (Core – for International and EU students only,0 Credits)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/biotechnology-dtpbty6:
Given the common expectation for job candidates to have some form of postgraduate qualification, this part-time Masters course offers a route to careers in biotechnology as well as the broader life sciences industry.
If your first degree included the study of genetics and molecular biology, and a research module, you're well-placed to join us.
Check
out all of our available part time study options and discover the course that
best suits you.
Our teaching team maintains close links with biotech companies and research labs, including via ongoing roles as consultants, which helps ensure an up-to-date understanding of the latest technical and commercial developments.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-building-surveying-extended-degree-uusxdv1:
Accreditation : This course is accredited by the Royal Instituion of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) , demonstrating a globally-recognised standard of surveying education.
Similar courses you may be interested in: Construction Management BSc (Hons) , Quantity Surveying BSc (Hons) or Real Estate BSc (Hons) .
UCAS Code Z023
As the course progresses you further develop your inspection, surveying and appraisal skills.
You can put theory into practice during the residential trip and the popular Building Advice Centre module in the final year, where you can advise real clients on building issues.
You can choose to spend a year on placement to deepen the practical element of your degree.
If you are planning to work towards a professional qualification with RICS, the placement can count towards the assessment of professional competence (APC), the first step towards full chartered surveyor status.
Your academic team come from a range of backgrounds, including surveyors, planners, construction professionals, project managers and solicitors.
Lecturers balance their teaching and research with external industry-related projects and they use this knowledge to inform your learning.
This approach creates a research-rich, practice-based environment which will develop your critical abilities, problem solving skills and lay a firm foundation for a career in the property industry.
Our strong links with the sector give you the opportunity to work on live projects as part of your course.
We also invite industry professionals to deliver guest lectures and share their experiences.
At Northumbria you’ll find the latest technologies to support you in our specialist laboratories and studios.
From modelling workshops and a materials lab to prototyping and architecture studios, you’ll have access to a wide range of industry related facilities.
Built environment students also benefit from dedicated project space and study areas for group and individual work.
The programme team have developed a coherent approach to technology enabled learning (TEL) which includes specialist software and online access to module information, key texts, podcasts and a range of teaching-related materials.
We take a research -led approach to all aspects of teaching.
As practising researchers, our lecturers pass on the latest techniques from their ongoing work to ensure your learning is current and relevant at both an academic and a practical level.
Specialist areas of staff research include the design, use and production of space, office to residential conversions, sustainable urban development and heritage preservation.
You will graduate with a respected qualification and the knowledge and practical experience that will prepare you for a career in building surveying.
The majority of our graduates progress into chartered surveying with global companies such as CBRE, Cushman and Wakefield, Knight Frank, , with others moving into related areas including project management and sustainable building technology.
Whether you want to work in the public sector, for an independent surveying company or a multinational corporation, this degree will equip you with the tools and techniques you will need to work in this field.
The design of the programme strongly supports postgraduate study and many former graduates have moved on to Masters or PhD level study, for example our Surveying (Building Surveying) MSc .
Quantity Surveying (Core,20 Credits)
KA4001 -
The Evolution of the Built Environment (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about how buildings evolved from antiquity to the modern age, with the intent of your being able to identify differing architectural and constructional styles.
Supporting this, you will learn to identify how key developments in materials and technologies led to new ideas on construction and planning for urban living.
You will also learn about the surveying professions that work within and look after the built environment, and how you can use academic skills to communicate your ideas and responses within various individual and group assessments, and support your own learning, essential to your success at university.
To facilitate this, the module will create a platform for you to learn some important academic, study and professional skills in relation to your degree programme..
You will learn how to undertake academic work and be able to assess your own and others’ role, responsibilities and contribution via reflective practice.
You will study a range of topics to support the above including: The history of the built environment The roles of different Built Environment professionals, including introductory presentations from different professionals and practitioners.
An introduction to academic, study and professional skills.
On completion of this module the knowledge and understanding acquired forms part of the broader contextual framework for the study of your discipline specific programme.
The programme is accredited by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
The academic content and skills development within the module is aimed at developing you both in terms of your current and future career aspiration.
KA4014 -
Development and Construction Economics (Core,20 Credits)
The demand for construction and property is generated from the global, national and regional economy.
In this module you will learn how the surveyor works within the economic environment to provide the good and services demanded by society.
You will learn about the basic and fundamental economic concepts such as demand and supply theory, market mechanism and macroeconomic objectives in order to develop an understanding of economic theory as applied to the construction industry and property.
These fundamentals will be developed to help you understand money supply, the concept of risk and return and investment finance.
Practical exercises will help you understand the components of value in property, property development and the construction process.
You will learn about the role, key activities and the basic skills of the surveying and construction professions in different stages of the development and construction process with introductions to the key functions, professional practice techniques and concepts that are commonly deployed within the built environment such as property valuation, cost estimating and property procurement methods.
KA4015 -
Construction Technology (Core,20 Credits)
This module seeks to provide you with a fundamental understanding of how construction and structural technologies can be employed to address key principles of building, and to satisfy performance and regulatory requirements.
You will also be introduced to the aesthetic, environmental, economic and legislative factors that influence the choice of technologies in the construction industry.
In particular, you will develop an understanding of the following aspects of technologies for small-scale buildings: - the construction team and their specific roles in technological decisions - structural principles - foundations and groundworks - principles of enclosure - principles of environmental control - building envelope  as a climatic modifier - daylight and lighting need; room conditions and sound transfer - air transfer mechanisms - alternative sources of energy -principles of heat loss - material properties and choices - external wall construction methods - internal walls floors and stairs - fixtures, fittings and furniture - principles of sustainability and the impact of construction on the built and natural environments - health and safety in the construction and use of buildings - building regulations and associated legislation - communications and graphical standards in construction technology
KA4016 -
Law for Surveyors (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about the key areas of law, which are relevant to the surveying profession, and also start to develop professional skills.
Topics include: • Introduction to the English Legal System and how the law affects the work of surveyors • Sources of law, reviewing a case, interpreting legislation, legal research and problem solving techniques • Contract Law • Land law; land ownership, land registration, public and private rights affecting land and adverse possession.
• The sale of land; overview of the conveyancing process, different methods of sale including auctions and tenders.
• Tort : Negligence, Professional Negligence, Occupiers' liability, nuisance and Trespass.
• Landlord and Tenant Law; reading a lease, key lease obligations and remedies for breach of covenant.
KA4026 -
Property Surveying (Core,20 Credits)
This module is designed as part of a package of first year modules to provide you with the key skills and knowledge to embark on a programme of study leading to professional qualification as a chartered surveyor.
The module will draw on and supplement the module on Construction Technology.
The module will be introduced by exercises to identify the characteristics of property matching them to occupier demands.
You will learn and experience land and building surveying and measurement, instructed in the use of surveying equipment and be able to apply these techniques in real building surveys.
In addition you will learn how to analyse building defects and specify and supervise their remediation, in the context of the contractual obligations imposed in property purchase and leasing transactions.
It is essential that the property professions make a contribution in combating climate change and as such you will be taught a range of low carbon design and construction philosophies and the application of renewable energy technologies.
Property refurbishment and enhancement can also make a substantial contribution to minimising the environmental impact of property occupation, you will apply the techniques taught to the refurbishment of a range properties.
KA4027 -
Professional Practice (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn how to use BIM software as a way of recording and communicating proposed and existing buildings and develop practical and technical surveying skills in extracting and/or communicating buildings and assets.
You will learn how to work as part of a team to produce solutions to a project related problem/ scenario, to work to tight deadlines and presentation skills for surveyors.
You will be able to assess your own and others’ role, responsibilities and contribution in completing a task.
On completion of this module the knowledge and understanding acquired form part of the broader contextual framework for the study of your discipline specific programme.
The academic content and skills development within the module are aimed at developing you both in terms of your current and future career aspirations.
KA5023 -
Design and Specification (Core,20 Credits)
In responding to a client brief and understanding the request is a key attribute of the Building Surveyor.
You will become used to interrogating the client and responding to physical and statutory constraints to produce a workable design solution.
You will call upon historical and contemporary influences on Architecture and technological solutions to suit the practicalities of both construction and maintenance throughout the life cycle of a building.
Further, emphasis will be given to communication of design logic and rationale, and communication of design choices.
KA5024 -
Sustainable Building Technologies (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about the ways in which buildings impact on the local and global environment through the choice of construction materials, energy and carbon emissions.
This module builds on and develops what you will have learned about construction technology from the previous level.
You will discover the importance of energy efficiency and how the performance of buildings can be improved through sustainable design of both new build and refurbishment works.
Topics include: •	Global environmental problems and climate change.
•	How heat transfers through materials, how to assess heat loss and energy efficiency in buildings.
•	Legislation and regulations relating to the environmental performance of buildings.
•	The construction technology of older buildings and how this affects sustainability.
•	Principles of sustainable building design.
•	Sustainable refurbishment and adaptation of buildings.
•	The environmental impact of building services including renewable energy options.
•	Carbon footprinting and the environmental impact of building materials.
KA5025 -
Planning and Building Legislation (Core,20 Credits)
You will examine the inter-relationship between the planning and development control systems.
You will also examine the agencies, policies and programmes involved in planning, development frameworks and their role in the current development control system, urban regeneration, and conservation and development site briefs.
The module focuses on legislation relating to the enforcement of planning and building controls.
This will involve studying the liaison between planning and building control, fire and environmental health legislation.
The administration of both public sector and private sector building control bodies is also studied to give an indication of how the building control “industry” operates in the UK by explaining the duties and responsibilities of building control surveyors.
Aspects of the practical implication of these controls are addressed through an illustrative introduction to the elements of the Equality Act relating to disabled access, and the aspects of fire legislation in England.
KA5026 -
Contract Administration and Practice (Core,20 Credits)
You will gain an understanding and examine the role of the Building Surveyor in managing property, construction contracts and the design process.
You will learn to identify and analyse the key theories and procedures within construction projects including procurement, tendering and contract selection.
You will understand how these are integrated within the roles and duties of the contract administrator and health and safety practice.
Design principles and practice along with specification writing learnt will further enhance your practical skills and compliment the theoretical knowledge learnt.
KA5028 -
Building Performance and Pathology (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about existing building technologies and infrastructure, the reasons for using these technologies and how these technologies perform throughout a building life cycle.
From this, you will gain an understanding of the mechanism of degradation for these various technologies, developing your skills in identifying the defects coupled with underlying diagnostic skills to accurately analyse the defect cause.
You will learn remediation techniques specific to the mechanism of degradation or failure and have an ability to carry out straightforward calculations in support of changes in existing building infrastructure.
KA5040 -
Business and Professional Development (Core,20 Credits)
This module will teach you about the surveying profession, the governing bodies and give you an understanding of the skill set required to succeed within the profession to allow you to consider the direction of your future career.
You will learn how to develop your professional CV and how to conduct yourself within an employment interview through a mock interview.
You will also look at the RICS Assessment of Professional Competence in order to understand the process to become a Chartered Surveyor to be able to start planning a learning strategy.
KA5044 -
You will be able to apply and evaluate placement experience to develop and enhance appropriate areas of your knowledge and understanding, your intellectual and professional skills, and your personal value attributes, relevant to your programme of study, as well as to accreditation bodies (e.g RICS, CIOB, RIBA) within appropriate working environments.
This may comprise more than one placement, where appropriate.
KA6000 -
Building Advice Centre (Core,20 Credits)
This will take the form of defect appraisals, feasibility studies and asset management planning for both residential and commercial properties and portfolios.
KA6030 -
Design And Construction Economics (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn the management theories and systems used throughout the design, construction and operational phases of a building.
This will include the implications of design decisions and construction processes and the impact such decisions have on construction and operational costs, including life cycle costing, cost planning and value engineering.
You will learn how to work both individually and as part of a team to carry out building surveys and produce feasibility reports for real commercial projects.
On completion of the module, your improved ability to link theory, practice and application will serve to enhance your future employment prospects.
KA6031 -
Heritage And Conservation (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about the principles of protecting, maintaining and conserving buildings of value and significance.
You will develop an appreciation of the importance of heritage buildings as part of our cultural heritage and of the legislation that enacted to protect them.
You will gain specialist knowledge that will enable you to work with heritage buildings, designing appropriate alterations, repairs and conservation work enhancing your employability.
Topics covered include: • Methods for surveying and recording heritage buildings.
• Philosophy of conservation including the use of appropriate materials and repair techniques in accordance with Historic England Principles of Repair.
• Adaptation and re-use of redundant heritage buildings.
• Heritage property management.
• Legislation, guidance and dealing with heritage at risk.
KA6032 -
Surveying Dissertation (Core,40 Credits)
This module is designed to support you in independently pursuing an original piece of research on a built environment topic of your own choice and aims to provide you with an opportunity to design and conduct a substantive piece of investigative work that is directly related to your programme of study.
You will draw upon and develop your independent research skills to answer a research question or test a hypothesis of your choosing.
You will assemble and review relevant scholarly literature and data and to present a cogent, reasoned and objective critique of published scholarly work on your chosen topic, in order to define a precisely focus for your research.
You will develop expertise to achieve the following: •	identify an appropriate research topic •	critically review relevant academic literature; •	formulate research questions/hypotheses and appropriate methods of inquiry; •	collect your own data and/or using existing datasets and literature •	analyse and interpret your results using appropriate quantitative, statistical and/or qualitative techniques, •	relate your findings to existing and up-to-date literature and theory; •	objectively appraise the ethical considerations of conducting research; and •	independently manage and implement your own research project.
KA6049 -
Advanced Building Appraisal (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about the professional role of the Building Surveyor in the appraisal of buildings and property.
You will discover the specialised surveys and inspections that are carried out in practice and develop skills in using a variety of surveying instruments and methods.
Topics include: • Appraising buildings in relation to building physics and energy efficiency including deep retrofitting, moisture transfer in solid masonry and interstitial condensation • Specialist surveys undertaken by building surveyors relating to Schedules of Dilapidations, the Party Wall Act and Technical Due Diligence Surveys • Modern methods and digital technologies for surveying and providing information including; BIM, drones, laser scanning, point clouds, virtual reality and thermal imagery.
• Professional ethics for Building Surveyors

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/building-surveying-bsc-ft-uusbdv1:
UCAS Code K230
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Building Surveying.
Occasionally field trips are arranged.
Not participating will not adversely affect your course performance but if you do want to participate, you may need to contribute approximately £200 per annum.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/business-analytics-msc-with-advanced-practice-dtsbnl6:
Our Business Analytics Masters course provides you with the opportunity and skills to explore the latest techniques for analysing ‘big data’ to identify patterns, interpret trends and advance your organisation’s drive for strategic change.
Aimed at those with an interest in problem solving and critical thinking, this course welcomes those from any undergraduate background, including applicants who have no previous business or analytics experience.
Our Business Analytics MSc develops broad business skills while offering specialist knowledge in business analytics for tomorrow’s business leaders.
In the second year you will undertake an Industry Consultancy Project allowing you to apply the knowledge and skills you have gained during your first year of study to a real-life industry issue from a range of employers.
This authentic learning context ensures that you experience what it feels like to work within a team on a contemporary project that has real relevance and impact.
Working to a client's brief, with academic supervision, you will advance your ability to apply theoretical concepts and research skills to produce a practical recommendation to a challenging problem.
*Be aware that all Advanced Practice with investigative consultancy project routes are similar to many of our 1-Year MSc with consultancy project routes, while 2-year Advanced Practice course spends more dedicated time in the Business Clinic, reflected on the total assessment input for the two 60 credit modules
Mode of Study 2 years Full Time with Advanced Practice 1 other options available
You will benefit from the vast experience of leading staff who have taught research-informed and cutting-edge topics.
The course is delivered via lectures, seminars, workshops and one-to-one sessions.
From the outset you will apply academic knowledge to real life business issues via tutorial-based activities, case discussions and group-work sessions.
You will also enjoy guest lectures from practitioners where you will have the opportunity to engage with industry.
To complement the formal modules we focus on developing your key capability skills.
This includes a residential day for the leadership and team-building event, which is in the first semester as part of a module called Leadership and Management Development, which is aimed at strengthening skills in team working, emotional and cultural intelligence, self-reflection, independent learning and critical thinking.
You will be assessed through a combination of personal development planning, group and peer assessments, and reflective reports as well as traditional exams and essays.
This will help you to become an independent, reflective and critical thinker who is culturally and ethically aware, with strong leadership and management capabilities.
We hold double accreditation from the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) in business and accounting – an international hallmark of excellence – in large part due to the exceptional quality of our staff.
The academic team have extensive experience in both research and industry, with specialisms including forecasting, decision making, analytics, information systems and knowledge management.
We incorporate our professional experience and ongoing research into the syllabus, to ensure you are up-to-date with current developments in a fast-changing and challenging field.
Over 40% of our publication outputs and 60% of our impact case studies have been assessed as internationally excellent or world leading.
The quality of our research, teaching and engagement with business were among the factors that led to Newcastle Business School being named ‘Business School of the Year’ at the Times Higher Education Awards 2015.
The University has invested heavily in IT labs and facilities.
You’ll use a variety of analytics software such as KNIME, R, ARIS Express Business Process Modelling, SAS, SPSS, Microsoft Project and Google Analytics.
Technology Enhanced Learning (TEL) is embedded throughout the course with tools such as the ‘Blackboard’ eLearning Portal and electronic reading lists that will guide your preparation for seminars and independent research.
Our use of lecture capture software will help you revise challenging material.
At Northumbria it’s easy to put your learning into practice, opportunities for experiential learning are available through our Student Engagement Centre which promotes volunteering and placements.
The Business Clinic enables our students to participate in a ‘consultancy firm’ to provide advice for our region’s businesses.
Our strong history of applied research is closely linked to local industry as well as the public and voluntary sectors.
This business relevant approach to teaching and learning has been developed to maximise your leadership, management and employability potential.
Throughout your course you’ll be an active participant in the on-going research agenda that’s at the heart of Newcastle Business School.
With conferences and research events regularly taking place, and with staff discussing their own research as it relates to the topics you’ll study, there’s a strong emphasis on engaging in up-to-date enquiry-based research-rich learning.
Discover more about current research projects at Newcastle Business School.
The NBS 2020 strategic research vision is organised into three formal and distinctive signature areas supported by a set of dynamically inclusive and academic led research interest groups.
Discover more...
This course is also the ideal stepping stone if you’re interested in a career in academic research, and successful graduates may be eligible for advanced entry onto our PhD or DBA programmes.
Whatever you decide to do, you will have the transferable skills that employers expect from a Master’s graduate from Northumbria University.
These include the ability to tackle complex issues through conceptualisation and undertaking research, the ability to contribute to new processes and knowledge, and the ability to formulate balanced judgements when considering incomplete or ambiguous data.
Applicants should normally have: A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree or equivalent, or substantial experience of working in a business organisation.
Visit www.northumbria.ac.uk/yourcountry English Language requirements: International applicants are required to have a minimum overall IELTS (Academic) score of 6.5 with 5.5 in each component (or approved equivalent*).
Full UK Fee:
                                £15,350
BM9716 -
Business Statistics and Data Analytics (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about how to use statistical tools and analytical software in Business Analysis.
You will learn the necessary skills to make sure that processes run efficiently, particularly with the application of these statistical analytical tools in real business cases by taking into consideration all the face of opportunities and challenges arising from the worldwide reach of business.
You will gain the basic and the essential knowledge in addition to practical analytical skills to think as a professional business analyst, project manager, operations analyst, digital analytics specialist or data analytics consultant in a globalised digital environment.
Moreover, you will discover the basic analytical statistical thinking of data analysis in business and put your learning into practice by applying it to real case studies which will help you to gain experience with the recent issues in business and digital market.
Business Statistics and Data Analytics work hand-in-hand, because analytics turns data into insights that guide intelligent business decisions.
You will learn how to discover and create knowledge from data analysis as well as data preparation, data visualization, statistical analysis and other advanced analytics tools by using.
This course will help you in understanding business statistical analysis, develop your data analysis skills and will qualify you to work in organisations and help them to achieve their digital transformation goals.
BM9717 -
Data Management and Visualization (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will discover what data is and think about what questions you have that can be answered by the data – even if you’ve never thought about data before.
Based on existing data, you will learn to develop a research question, describe the variables and their relationships, calculate basic statistics, and present your results clearly.
This module is designed to teach you to handle data programmatically, without being software engineers.
By the end of the module, you will be able to use one of the powerful data analysis tools – R – to manage and visualize your data, including how to deal with missing data, variable groups, and graphs.
Throughout the module, you will share your progress with others to gain valuable feedback, while also learning how your peers use data to answer their own questions.
BM9719 -
Forecasting and Predictive Analytics (Core,20 Credits)
This module aims at educating you in the field of forecasting and predictive analytics to respond to the job market needs using a variety of methodologies.
Your journey shall be a quest to distinguish the "true" signal from a universe of "noise" through the lenses of forecasting and predictive analytics.
To be more specific, this module covers the typical methodological steps of a prediction exercise, statistical modelling, and artificial intelligence methodologies for prediction via applications in different business settings.
This module teaches you fundamental techniques used for predictive analytics: regression, classification, clustering, Bayesian and other machine learning approaches and models.
You will learn how to perform forecasting using time-based data to predict future values from a model.
You will get practice with classification and use various techniques for clustering and linear regression to solve common business problems; as well as learn techniques for assessing the effectiveness of your solutions.
BM9720 -
Analytics for Competitive Advantage (Core,20 Credits)
This module prepares you to develop competitive business strategies by developing key “hard” skills that are essential in a competitive landscape.
In this module you will learn how to use marketing and supply chain analytics to progress your skills on enhancing the functional performance of a modern business.
This includes specialised approaches, methods, and techniques that complement your learning with R analytics, SPSS, and SAS in the previous modules.
You will be introduced to competitiveness techniques that help you automate, inform, and strategize business processes and enhance the overall value chain.
You will practice business analytics in key business areas such as logistics, operations, marketing, and decision support systems.
This learning-by-doing (action learning) philosophy will enable you to use “passive” and “active” business analytics to enhance your skills for competitiveness and strategizing.
Examples of passive analytics software included in this module are KISSmetrics, RetentionGrid, Metrilo, Clicky, and Adobe Marketing Cloud.
Each of them will be demonstrated using a practical case study in four functional areas, including procurement/ inbound logistics, operations, marketing, and after sale services.
To strengthen this application of analytics to organisational competitiveness and the pursuit of competitive advantage, you will also participate in a business simulation where you will be exposed to cross-functional business decision making in the pursuit of a competitive business strategy.
A prominent theme throughout this module is to give you experience in contemporary analytics software applications used in the key business functions, and by doing so, this will enhance your employability for graduate-entry analytics roles.
In addition to being able to provide critical analysis of data, you will also be able to consider the business implementation and communication skills required.
This module emphasises the development of practical skills and techniques required by businesses to help them in strategizing their operations.
You will also develop “soft skills” relating to communication and conflict resolution as well as enhancing your knowledge of commercialisation and market positioning strategies.
MK9711 -
Developing Leadership Capability for Professional Practice (Core,20 Credits)
This module engages you in personal and professional development  in order that you develop and hone your teamworking,  management and leadership skills, capabilities and attributes,  and in so doing, enhance your employability.
On this module, you will not only prepare for your first job after you graduate but also kickstart your commitment to life-long personal and professional learning.
In the first part of the module you will be supported in a self-analysis by a range of activities, including the completion of self-administered tool-kits to demonstrate an increased self-awareness and self-understanding.
This will also involve applying theoretical frameworks and researching contemporary literature for a more in-depth understanding of self.
A key outcome of this process is how you will be able to exploit this development in order to lead, and manage, more effectively in your future careers.
The second part of the module contains activities which enable you to build on your self-analysis and explore further your strengths, weaknesses and areas for development in the context of your career development plans.
You will receive guidance on how to craft  professional, postgraduate CVs, LinkeIn profiles, and supporting documentation to meet the needs of employer.
Furthermore, you will  use your understanding of self to help you to understand the key issues and specific challenges that you face, with your skills profile, in relation to your employability prospects in your target profession/industry/sector.
This will also include the development of knowledge into the global graduate market, (including routes such as self-employment and developing your career with an existing employer) drawing upon local, national and international examples.
NX0470 -
Applied Management Work Investigation (Optional,60 Credits)
You will undertake a group consultancy project within the Business Clinic during the first semester of your second year of Masters’ study (NX0479).
Through your work-based experience, you will develop ability as a problem solver with valued investigative, theoretical and practical business skills.
This will last the length of the semester and involve the examination of a complex organisational problem or commercial opportunity.
This second semester module will involve the development of the client oriented management report and presentation alongside an individual literature review and personal reflection.
NX0479 -
Business Clinic PG Group Consultancy Project (Core,60 Credits)
As a student enrolled on one of the 2-year Advanced Practice Programmes you may undertake a group consultancy project within the first semester of your second years of Masters’ study.
Through your work-based experience, you will develop abilities as a problem solver with valued investigative, theoretical and practical business skills.
This work-based experience will last the length of the semester and involve the examination of a complex organisational problem or commercial opportunity.
By undertaking this module, you will have enhanced your individual skills, knowledge, effectiveness and employability by locating learning and development within a work-based context and will have critically reflected and evaluated upon organisational practices and the relation with academic theory.
The content of the work-based experience will be unique to you as a group of participants.
The nature and scope of the area of student investigation will be defined and agreed in collaboration with the organisation and the University supervisor.
Assessment will be both formative and summative and incorporate self, peer, and tutor evaluation.
You will present your work-based findings to academic mentors (oral presentation) and an interim report written on behalf of the host organisation or sponsoring project client.
In the follow-up module (NX0470), you will provide a substantial management investigation report on the business related issue emerging from this  consultancy, alongside a personal reflective statement.
*Those students who do not achieve a mark 80% or more will not progress to NX0470 but will progress to the Masters Dissertation or Management Enquiry Module.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/business-analytics-msc-dtfbna6:
This course welcomes students from a variety of backgrounds, including those without prior experience in business or analytics.
It enables you to gain a broad set of business skills alongside specialised knowledge in analytics, preparing you for roles across different industries.
Through collaborations with local partners, you will be attain real-world experience and insights into entrepreneurship and innovation from guest speakers.
You will learn how to work effectively in dynamic teams, adapt a design-oriented approach to problem-solving, and lead with an entrepreneurial mindset.
You will have the opportunity to learn about the principles, theories and practices employed by entrepreneurial and innovative organisations.
This includes frameworks for reviewing, reflecting on, analysing and critiquing your own entrepreneurial mindset, intentions and potential ventures.
The course culminates in either a Masters Dissertation, Management Inquiry, or a Consultancy Project where you will address an issed faced by a real client.
Throughout the course, you will acquire business intelligence knowledge and develop data insights supported by a strong analytics toolbox.
Why choose Northumbria to study Business Analytics MSc?
See
other similar courses you may be interested in Digital Business
The Kans and Kandy Charitable Trust Scholarships
You will benefit from the vast experience of leading staff
who have taught research-informed and cutting-edge topics.
The Business Analytics Masters is delivered via lectures, seminars,
workshops and one-to-one sessions.
From the outset you will apply academic
knowledge to real life business issues via tutorial-based activities, case
discussions and group-work sessions.
You
will also enjoy guest lectures from practitioners where you will have the
opportunity to engage with industry.
To complement the formal modules we focus on developing
your key capability skills.
This includes a residential day for the leadership and
team-building event, which is in the first semester, which is in the first semester as part of
a module called Leadership and Management Development, which is aimed at
strengthening skills in team working, emotional and cultural intelligence,
self-reflection, independent learning and critical thinking.
You will be assessed through a combination of personal
development planning, group and peer assessments, and reflective reports as
well as traditional exams and essays.
This will help you to become an
independent, reflective and critical thinker who is culturally and ethically
aware, with strong leadership and management capabilities.
We hold double accreditation from the Association to
Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) in business and accounting – an
international hallmark of excellence – in large part due to the exceptional
quality of our staff.
The academic team have extensive experience in both
research and industry, with specialisms including forecasting, decision making,
analytics, information systems and knowledge management.
We incorporate our professional
experience and ongoing research into the syllabus, to ensure you are up-to-date
with current developments in a fast-changing and challenging field.
Our staff are actively pushing at the frontiers of
knowledge and generating new concepts and insights.
Over 40% of our publication
outputs and 60% of our impact case studies have been assessed as
internationally excellent or world leading.
The quality of our research,
teaching and engagement with business were among the factors that led to
Newcastle Business School being named ‘Business School of the Year’ at the
Times Higher Education Awards 2015.
The University has invested
heavily in IT labs and facilities.
You’ll use a variety of analytics software
such as KNIME, R, ARIS Express Business Process Modelling, SAS, SPSS, Microsoft
Project and Google Analytics.
Technology Enhanced Learning
(TEL) is embedded throughout the course with tools such as the ‘Blackboard’
eLearning Portal and electronic reading lists that will guide your preparation
for seminars and independent research.
Our use of lecture capture software will
help you revise challenging material.
At Northumbria it’s easy to
put your learning into practice, opportunities for experiential learning are
available through our Student Engagement Centre which promotes volunteering and
placements.
The Business Clinic enables our students to participate in a
‘consultancy firm’ to provide advice for our region’s businesses.
Our strong history of applied research is closely linked
to local industry as well as the public and voluntary sectors.
This business
relevant approach to teaching and learning has been developed to maximise your
leadership, management and employability potential.
Throughout your Business Analytics Masters you’ll be an active participant
in the on-going research agenda that’s at the heart of Newcastle Business
School.
With conferences and research events regularly taking place, and with
staff discussing their own research as it relates to the topics you’ll study,
there’s a strong emphasis on engaging in up-to-date enquiry-based research-rich
learning.
As part of this course you will build a portfolio of materials that can be presented to employers to demonstrate your development and appropriateness for roles in the business analytics field, the content of which will be informed by the work you undertake in the modules you study.
You may decide you want to start up your own business, it’s good
to know that the combined turnover of our graduates’ start-up companies is
higher than that of any other UK university.
This course is also the ideal stepping stone if you’re interested in a
career in academic research, and successful graduates may be eligible for
advanced entry onto our PhD or DBA programmes.
Whatever you decide to do, you will have the
transferable skills that employers expect from a Master’s graduate from Northumbria
University.
These include the ability to tackle complex issues through
conceptualisation and undertaking research, the ability to contribute to new
processes and knowledge, and the ability to formulate balanced judgements when
considering incomplete or ambiguous data.
Full UK Fee:
                                £12,350
There are various books that are recommended for purchase throughout the duration of this course, with costs being approximately £200.
A number of these books will also be available with free open access or in the library, in either hard and/or electronic format.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-business-and-analytics-extended-degree-uusxaa1:
Data
analysts are curious.
When presented with information they think critically, extensively
explore all possibilities, and offer human interpretation alongside automated
analytics.
Our Business
and Analytics BSc (Hons) course provides you with the opportunity and skills to
explore these techniques, identifying patterns, interpreting trends and ultimately
informing business development and decision making.
You will learn
in a diverse environment, building cultural and ethical awareness, important in
the field of analytics where issues such as data privacy are vital.
Supplemented
with broad business modules, you will gain interdisciplinary skills
which will help you interpret data within a range of business contexts – from marketing
to finance.
This double-sided approach is valuable for tasks which you may encounter during employment; for example, forecasting sales
when entering new global markets or assessing brand
performance online to help inform digital marketing strategies.
Having this knowledge of business and analytics together will ultimately help you stand out in your future career.
Accredited Business School - Newcastle Business School is accredited by the prestigious Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB).
According to AACSB, “Approximately 6% of the world's schools offering business degree education have achieved AACSB accreditation, demonstrating a commitment to high-quality, rigorous standards, innovation, and continuous process improvement”.
Top 10 - Business Studies at Northumbria is ranked 6th in the UK (Daily Mail University Guide, 2025).
Research Powerhouse - Business and Management is ranked 9th in the UK for research power (REF, 2021).
This is a rise of 51 places, the largest rise in the sector.
You’ll be introduced to broad business principles, shared with other
students across the business school.
Then, your
focus turns to analytical skills where you explore modules such as Tools and
Techniques for Data Analytics, Business Intelligence and Information Systems, Predictive
Analytics, and Analytics and Visualization for Management.
You’ll learn
through a variety of teaching methods including lectures, seminars,
problem-based workshops, webinars, case discussions, practical activities,
group work and tutorials.
To help you develop your independent learning skills,
you’ll also complete directed tasks – assignments you undertake in your own
time.
We back up
all our teaching with well-designed support systems to help you get the most
from your opportunities.
And we make sure that we build extensive feedback,
from both tutors and peers, into the course.
Throughout your studies, you’ll be
able to discuss any academic or personal issues with your Personal Tutor.
Assessments
involve applying business principles to solve problems and then demonstrating
your thinking through reports, presentations, portfolios and more.
In the final
year, you’ll complete an assessed dissertation, management enquiry or consultancy
project.
After this course you can look into one of our postgraduate courses such as our Business Analytics MSc
With
employability at its heart, this research-informed degree provides you with the
skills to enter an industry where Business Analysts are in high demand.
Developing
technical skills in areas such as data visualisation, forecasting and project
management, you will be well equipped to be successful in your career.
Alongside
this, you will learn skills which will be transferable to any career path.
For
example, you’ll learn how to communicate analytics in an accessible manner, work
in teams, and present findings.
You will
also have multiple opportunities to apply your knowledge to organisational
contexts as you are tasked with offering creative solutions to real-world business
problems.
In your final year, you may also work on a Business Consultancy
project, whereby you help real business solve real problems through our Business Clinic .
After this course you can look into one of our postgraduate courses such as our Business Analytics MSc or check out all of our available Business Courses .
It includes a foundation year that gives you the chance to establish a strong academic foundation while exploring a wide range business issues, ranging from strategy and marketing to entrepreneurship and responsible management.
This first year of this course will introduce you to the key concepts of human resource and marketing management and the concept of strategic and contemporary management.
It will provide you with a broad context of knowledge and development of the essential skills required for industry.
You will then learn how to apply key theoretical themes in an end of year project.
UCAS Code Z021
You’ll learn through a variety of teaching methods including lectures, seminars, problem-based workshops, webinars, case discussions, practical activities, group work and tutorials.
To help you develop your independent learning skills, you’ll also complete directed tasks – assignments you undertake in your own time.
We back up all our teaching with well-designed support systems to help you get the most from your opportunities.
Throughout your studies, you’ll be able to discuss any academic or personal issues with your Personal Tutor.
Assessments involve applying business principles to solve problems and then demonstrating your thinking through business reports, presentations, portfolios and more.
In the final year, you’ll complete an assessed dissertation, management enquiry or consultancy project.
There are a wide variety of assessments used across each year of the programme, including written assignments, reports, examinations, individual, and group presentations.
In your final year, you will undertake a substantial piece of research work, either in the form of an individual dissertation, management enquiry or a group consultancy project.
While assessments are usually individual work, there are various modules across the programme which include group work and thereby give you opportunity to develop skills in teamwork, negotiation, and leadership.
For assignments and portfolio work, you will be supported in your seminars, where tutors will share marking criteria prior to the assignment being handed in.
This means that you will have a clear guidance on the expectations of the marker.
Tutors will also provide feedback which will give clear guidance on areas of strength and weakness.
Newcastle Business School has a global reputation for delivering some of the UK’s best business education.
We’re part of an elite group of business schools worldwide with double accreditation from the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) in business and accounting.
Modules will be delivered by a team of academic staff who possess a combination of academic qualifications and relevant professional practice.
Our staff are engaged in various research, consultancy, and practice-based activities, which will impact your learning and be embedded into the teaching.
Academic staff will support you through taught sessions, as well as planning activities for you to engage with during independent study time.
Our academics will be available for further support outside of formal scheduled teaching, such as through student-drop-in sessions.
You will also be allocated a Personal Tutor, who has responsibility for your personal wellbeing.
You will have access to a range of university learning support services.
These consist of sessions conducted by library staff on core academic skills such as referencing and academic writing.
If you are an international student, there are specialist academic skills sessions built into your studies, which will help with the academic language in your modules of study.
In addition, you will also have access to the central Student Support and Wellbeing service, who offer a range of services including support with welfare and health, finances, international student support, disability and dyslexia, counselling and mental health, and chaplaincy and faith advice.
You will learn from the best inspirational academic staff with a genuine passion for their subject.
Dr Colin Richardson
Prof.
Dilek Onkal
Professor of Business Information Systems and Analytics and Head of the Analytics Subject Group.
Dr Sinan Donul
What’s more, there are plenty of opportunities to put your learning into practice through volunteering, internships, and placements.
This includes the Business Clinic that provides student consultancy facilities to work with our clients in response to their business problem.
Our clients are drawn from a range of organisations including multinationals, SMEs, not-for-profit charities, and social enterprises from across the region and nationally.
There’s a strong research ethos at Northumbria and it plays an important role in how you’ll develop as a critical, reflective and independent thinker.
We take an enquiry-based, problem-solving approach.
This introduces you to key research skills including information literacy, sampling, statistical reporting and surveying.
In the final year you’ll undertake a significant investigatory task that can be either a dissertation, management enquiry or consultancy project.
Throughout the course your learning will be shaped directly by the teaching team’s active research into their specialist subjects, as well as signature research themes that include digital business, strategic innovation and entrepreneurial leadership, and responsible business.
Making your career happen is at the heart of all our Business courses – with every module designed to reinforce the transferable skills you’ll need in the workplace.
Nevertheless, we also have dedicated modules focusing on career-development skills where you will practice and develop skills necessary to obtain a placement or graduate employment in a supportive environment.
Beyond the classroom, you’ll have opportunities to develop your career through practical experience and wider learning.
In your second year, you can spend a semester studying abroad, or take an extra year before your final year studying elsewhere in the EU, or further afield such as the USA, Australia or China.
There’s also the option of a work placement year, where our Internship Programmes are on hand to help you gain hands-on Business Analytics experience.
And there’s our Business Clinic, offering you the chance to work with real clients to help solve their business challenges.
If you decide not to take a year/semester out on a work placement or study abroad, there are still plenty of opportunities available.
Our extensive network of operations, business professionals (including many past graduates) offer you extra opportunities to attend networking events and meet the associated professional bodies, allowing you to sculpt a truly distinctive CV to use in the graduate marketplace.
After graduating, you may wish to embark on Postgraduate study.
And there are a wide range of potential future career areas including Business, Systems, or Process Analyst, Scheduler, Market Insight and Competitor Analyst, and many more.
Your progression into such employment after graduation is supported by our careers service, as well as the skills and knowledge developed throughout the programme.
NX9308 -
Professional Development for Responsible Management Practice (Core,20 Credits)
Your learning is achieved via a combination of weekly workshops, seminars and fortnightly group and/or individual tutorials.
The aim of all sessions is to create a friendly, interactive and inclusive learning environment.
Indicative topics include (but are not limited to): •	Researching and referencing reliable sources of information •	How to thinking critically and analytically •	Time management for professional development •	Presentation skills – visual, verbal and written •	Team work – how to work with and influence others •	Professional skills in business leadership and management •	Introduction to Emotional Intelligence •	Introduction to Career Planning
NX9309 -
Business Environment and Functions (Core,20 Credits)
How are business organisation organised in order to deliver on their strategic mission and prosper in an increasingly competitive globalised environment?
This module is designed to develop your understanding of business practice and the key strategic concerns of senior managers.
In doing, this module will provide through the exploration of the functions of a business, the foundation for your later career as a manager.
Contemporary business operations are dependent on the efficient and effective application of certain key functions, namely Strategy, Marketing, and Human Resource Management.
You will explore how each contributes to organisational performance, as well as how these all are inter-related and mutually dependent.
In your study of Strategy, you will explore the idea of strategic positioning and choice, which is so important for businesses in setting out their intended direction of travel.
In your study of Human Resource and Management you will think about what human capital means and what are competencies.
In your exploration of marketing, you will consider how businesses engage in market segmentation and promotional strategies.
These activities may appear very different but in reality, these all contribute to the business as a whole.
In this module you will be assessed by the submission of Professional Report.
You will be guided on how to construct the report in lectures and seminars.
NX9310 -
Business Information Management (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will learn about the practical challenges faced by organisations in creating business information and communicating this information in an understandable way.
You will learn about business data, its key sources and how this can be created for specific project purposes through survey design and associated data collection.
You will learn how to undertake primary data collection in an ethically appropriate way and how to handle, prepare and analyse your data using analytical tools e.g.
Excel.
The importance of communication to your business audience is reinforced through verbal and written presentation of your study findings.
Within this module, you will cover the following topics: •	Introduction to Business Information.
•	Data and Information Management: sources; types; storage; accessibility.
•	Data Collection: survey design and distribution, taking account of the different types of data we might want to collect.
•	Ethical aspects of data collection.
•	Data Preparation - extracting and importing data to analytical tools e.g.
Excel; preparing data for analysis.
•	Data Analysis and Presentation with analytical tools: converting data into business information and intelligence.
•	Communicating the Information and Intelligence – using reports and presentations.
As an integral part of your learning, you will use “real” data, which you will subsequently learn to manage, prepare and analyse.
You will learn how to present your work in verbal and written formats, leading to the development of a 2,000 word individual report for your summative assessment.
NX9311 -
Entrepreneurship and Innovation (Core,20 Credits)
This module examines how our business organisations are organised in order to deliver on their strategic mission in an increasingly competitive globalised environment.
This module will provide, through the exploration of the functions of a business, the foundation for your later career as a manager.
In this module you will be assessed by a Project that involves a presentation and a project whilst working in a team.
You will be guided on how to approach this examination in lectures and seminars.
NX9312 -
Introduction to Responsible Business (Core,20 Credits)
Your learning is achieved via a series of coherent lectures & seminars.
The aim is to create a friendly, highly interactive and inclusive learning environment including a range of diverse learning activities.
Indicative topics include (but are not limited to): •	Sustainability Literacy •	Global Environmental Issues •	Sustainable Development Goals •	Business and Society •	Contemporary Business Issues •	Introduction to Business Ethics •	Responsible Business Models •	Sustainable Business Theories •	Sustainable Business Innovation In addition to knowledge generation this approach will enable you to further develop transferable skills essential for success at both university and in the world of work: personal confidence, teamwork & collaboration, self-management and independent learning.
You will be assessed through a combination of debates/presentations and coursework, which will equip you with the transferable skills required for your programme and future employment.
Above all, this module will stimulate your curiosity as to how business can be a force for good in making the world a better place.
NX9313 -
Leadership and Management in Professional Practice Project (Core,20 Credits)
How are businesses organised and who is responsible for this?
How do both leaders and managers contribute in their own way to the collective performance of a business organisation?
In particular, the functions of management are to: Set objectives/targets for individuals, teams and larger work units; make day-to-day decisions, especially in relation to staff recruitment, costing projects and budgeting for the future; reviewing individual and collective performance and planning for the future.
For leaders, you will explore how their role is primarily concerned with changing the emotional state of colleagues through inspiration, concern and authentic commitment.
You will also consider how poor leadership is manifested and study examples of how poor leadership impacts on others and the wider organisation.
You will gain an understanding of differing views of leadership and what models (Transactional; Transformational, Authentic, Distributed) have been put forward to explain its practice in the real world.
As a result of studying this module, you will have a foundation for later study in your undergraduate degree and understand the benefits of effective leadership and management for business organisations.
AF4038 -
Financial Decision Making (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn how financial information can be used to assist managers and external user groups in their decision-making processes.
You will initially look at the informational needs of outside user groups, the nature of the information they are provided with, and how this information can be analysed and interpreted in order to enhance the effectiveness of their decision making.
Topic areas will include: • The reporting frameworks and ethical principles that underpin financial reporting • The nature of international financial reporting standards • Format and content of the statement of profit or loss and statement of financial position • The statement of cash flows • Analysis and interpretation of financial statements using ratio analysis You will then examine how financial information can facilitate managers in making operational decisions in relation to planning and control.
Topic areas will include: • Costing (full and variable costing) • Cost, volume, profit analysis • Relevant costs for decision making • Budgeting and variance analysis •	 Balance scorecards • Working capital management Finally, you will explore the motivations for entrepreneurial activity and techniques that can be used to appraise investment decisions.
Topic areas will include: • Investment appraisal techniques (payback, accounting rate of return, net present value and internal rate of return) • Practical aspects of investment appraisal (inflation and capital rationing) • Risk and uncertainty
BM9403 -
Business Analysis for Decision Making (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will develop the knowledge and skills in applying a variety of quantitative data analysis techniques to support business decision making.
You will be introduced to business modelling using appropriate analytical tools, and your learning will cover a range of techniques to help business forecasting and data presentation.
In this module you will be exposed to a range of data analysis tools and skills, including: •	Business Analysis and Modelling: management of complex and varied data sets; building spreadsheet models.
•	Data Trends and Associations e.g.
identifying relationships between business variables.
•	Business Forecasting and Predictive Modelling – analysing factors and trends for business planning.
•	Business and Dashboard reporting – consolidation, interpretation and presentation of data for professional output.
•	Data distribution, data presentation and using summary statistics – handling a range of data for statistical analysis.
•	Gaining an understanding of the overlap between business and research data and the selection of appropriate tools for management of both types of data.
Working with these analysis tools, you will learn to develop confidence in dealing with a wide range of data sets.
You will become familiar with the role of modelling as an aid to problem solving and will build skills which enable you to interpret data and present your findings to a range of audiences.
Very importantly, you will gain a good understanding of the crucial role that analysis of data and interpretation of results plays in the decision-making arena.
BM9404 -
Analytics Study and Consultancy Skills (Core,20 Credits)
As part of your business analytics education, it is vital you develop competencies such as business analytical skills, interpersonal skills, creative thinking, problem solving, communication and time management.
This module will prepare you for your degree and the graduate marketplace by equipping you with the skills required to tackle a wide range of business challenges, and to appreciate how information/data can guide decision making.
This hands-on module will provide you with an introduction to experiential learning, where you create knowledge through experience.
You will work on live business projects and collaborate in teams to develop solutions to real business problems.
A core part of this process is reflection: appreciating your own skills, how they complement those of other group members and identifying areas for your own future development.
This module will complement ‘Business Analysis for Decision Making’, where you will be focused on learning the core principles of business analysis.
In this module you will apply these principles to business cases and whilst developing research, communication and consultancy skills that are crucial to your future analytics modules.
The module will also provide you with an introduction to prescriptive statistics, which can be used by organisations to predict the outcomes of future business decisions.
HR9409 -
Preparing for Professional Practice (Core,20 Credits)
Your programme aims to ensure that you are learners for business, not just of business, upon graduation.
This module starts you on this journey by supporting your professional development.
It aims to increase your awareness of and sensitivity to personal and employability/entrepreneurship/enterprise skills.
It does this by focusing on programme-specific graduate career opportunities that require you to work on projects similar to those that graduates within your field will undertake once in employment.
You are taking an experiential, team-focussed, project/problem-based approach.
The module will support you in identifying and developing the essential skills, behaviours, and understanding required to sustainably and responsibly manage organisations and their people.
These might include generic areas such as leadership, project management, management, resilience, empathy and professional judgment, and discipline-specific capabilities.
You will use this understanding to evaluate, practise, develop and re-evaluate your capabilities in these skills, behaviours and acumen areas, enabling you to build your own graduate identity.
This approach underpins your successful future employability, entrepreneurship or enterprise activity.
In addition, the activities provide you with authentic insights into the importance and challenges of team-working within organisations as you work to address real organisations’ issues.
Learner/team-led, tutor-guided sessions aim to support you in enhancing your employability and upon building your graduate identity.
During the practical development of the key attributes and behaviours central to your future success within your chosen profession within a project-based environment, you will receive support from the programme team.
In addition, by documenting and reflecting upon your progress towards achieving your own team defined KPIs, you will enhance your skills, behaviours, capabilities, and understanding.
In short, at the end of this module, you will: •	Have an understanding and increased awareness of, and sensitivity to, those personal skills and attributes which are central to your future employability in your chosen profession or future entrepreneurial or enterprise activity •	Be better prepared to understand the skills and qualities required by graduates in your field to secure future employment or engage in enterprise activity Have practical experience of working on a real-life business project appropriate to your programme area, improving your project management, research, employability and collaboration skills
HR9412 -
Business, Economy and Society (Core,20 Credits)
Governments and society are increasingly expecting business organisations to step up and assist in building cohesive societies through the application of more sustainable forms of capitalism.
This module introduces you to the global economic, societal, technological and environmental challenges of the 21st century, and identifies how, through greater alignment of business interest with that of society and the economy, business can be a “force for good” as well as best prepared to ‘Take on Tomorrow’.
You will focus on how contemporary businesses, broadly defined to include public, voluntary, not-for-profit and social enterprise, interact the economy and society though examination of topical news stories and events.
In doing so, you will develop a deep understanding of the relationships between business, the economy and society and the global challenges we all face.
You will explore a range of cultural, governmental and ethical issues that arise from current and developing global and national contexts through the lens of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Key issues include business ethics, the role of business in society, green issues, stakeholder theory, capitalist variants, the nature of globalisation at firm, economic and societal level and the interrelationship between business and government.
By the end of the module you will be able to evidence critical thinking and analysis skills while bringing your own experiences as a citizen into your discussion and inquiry.
MK9414 -
Introduction to Marketing (Core,20 Credits)
This module will introduce you to the business philosophy and practice of marketing.
It will examine how organisations can analyse and segment markets to improve performance and profitability by building long-term relationships with their customers.
A wide range of marketing decisions is studied together with the influence of the changing marketing environment on these decisions.
Main lectures will introduce the basic theories of marketing: •	The Marketing Environment •	Consumer & Organisational Behaviour •	Target Marketing & Segmentation.
•	Marketing Information Systems & Research.
•	Dimensions of a Product, Branding and Product Life Cycle.
•	Pricing Theory; strategies and tactics.
•	The Promotional Mix: Advertising, PR, Direct & e-Marketing.
•	Marketing channels Whilst seminars and topical lectures will apply marketing theory to different case scenarios: •	Service Marketing •	Not for profit Marketing •	Food marketing •	Digital Marketing •	Environmental Marketing •	Sustainable Marketing
BM9501 -
Business Research and Analysis (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will experience a comprehensive coverage of research methods and analysis that will prepare you both for work placement or study abroad opportunities alongside preparation for your final-year “capstone” research module of either Dissertation, Management Enquiry or Consultancy Project.
You will have the opportunity to use a range of appropriate software tools, such as SPSS (or an equivalent).
You learn to as well appreciate the importance of survey and questionnaire piloting.
In the qualitative part of the module, techniques covered will include interviewing, focus groups and visual methods to generate data, supported by appropriate analysis methods.
You will learn how to execute a critical and effective analysis of your research data for both approaches,
BM9502 -
Tools and Techniques for Data Analytics (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will learn about how to use the fundamental statistical tools and techniques for data analytics.
You will learn the necessary skills to make sure that processes run efficiently, particularly with the application of these data analytical tools in real business cases by taking into consideration all the face of opportunities and challenges arising from the worldwide reach of the business.
You will gain the basic and essential knowledge in addition to practical analytical skills to think as a professional business analyst, project manager, operations analyst, digital analytics specialist or data analytics consultant in a globalised digital environment.
Moreover, you will discover the basic analytical thinking of data analysis in business and put your learning into practice by applying it to real case studies which will help you to gain experience with the recent issues in business and the digital market.
Data analytics tools and techniques work hand-in-hand as analytics transforms data into insights that guide intelligent business decisions.
You will learn how to extract useful information from data analysis as well as data preparation, data organization, statistical analysis and other advanced analytics tools by using specialized software.
This course will help you in understanding business data analysis and developing your data analysis skills while equipping you with a necessary toolbox to work in organisations and help them to achieve their digital transformation goals.
BM9503 -
Business Intelligence and Information Systems (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will develop the knowledge and skills required for applying a variety of business intelligence techniques, and a familiarity with business intelligence software systems used to support data-driven decision-making process.
Business Intelligence is invaluable in allowing businesses to make informed, trusted decisions based on reliable data.
You will be introduced to the broader suite of business systems currently utilised throughout industry to enable you to understand their purpose.
In this module you will be provided with: •	An introduction to different types of data and information (specifically the distinction between structured and unstructured data) •	An ability to identify different types of business systems across industry sectors and justify their usage.
•	An overview of BI tools and their purpose in support data-driven decision making •	Experience in producing a BI Digital Dashboard (using Power BI) and presenting your findings to an audience Working with these tools, you will learn to develop confidence in dealing with a wide range of data sets, become aware of the different types of data and how this impacts your choice of system.
You will become familiar with visualisation techniques to aid in the analysis of the underlying data, thus helping businesses understand complex issues in a simplified manner.
HR9516 -
Human Resource Management Essentials (Core,20 Credits)
Designed specifically for non-Human Resources specialists the HRM Essentials module will take you on a journey through the modern organisation offering you the opportunity to understand how Human Resource Management contributes to the strategic direction of organisations in varying industries and sectors.
Building on the level 4 module ‘People, Management and Organisations’, this module is relevant to all those whose careers will involve dealing with and managing people in organisations.
Managers are often considered the key link in ensuring the successful implementation of HR processes, and likewise, the support of the HR function is required to ensure that managers operate fairly and consistently within best practice guidelines.
Managers are likely to play a key part in several core HR processes in order to ensure that they have the right people in their teams who are able to perform effectively.
Thereby an understanding of Human Resources underpins effective management practice.
‘HRM Essentials’ provides a practical overview of each of these core areas, providing a broad grounding in HR practice ranging from recruitment and selection to performance and reward, and learning and development to absence and wellbeing.
This module will not only provide you with the key theoretical arguments in Human Resource Management but will also encourage you to apply this learning to practice and reflect on your own personal skill development in implementing effective HR processes which will be invaluable to you in your future graduate management role.
MK9525 -
Digital Business: Models, Marketing and Operations (Core,20 Credits)
Throughout this module you will be introduced to the opportunities and challenges posed by doing business in an increasingly digital domain.
This module is designed to give you an understanding of how using online channels impacts upon different parts of the organisation, and will focus upon 3 core areas of business: •	Digital Business Models: You will develop an understanding of the cost structures associated with using digital channels and different business models (including omnichannel business strategies) •	Digital Marketing: In this part of the module you will consider how consumer behaviour has changed in the digital era, and evaluate the ever-increasing range of digital tools available for marketers online.
This will include understanding Google search rankings, social media and mobile marketing.
•	Supply Chain Management and Information Systems: You will also develop an appreciation of the role of supply chains in serving global markets, addressing issues such as the application of various systems to facilitate digital transactions (e.g.
ERP, CRM) and issues related to web performance.
You will be encouraged to think about digital business as a cross-disciplinary issue that requires the buy-in and contribution of various business functions to truly succeed.
MO9528 -
Applied Logistics and Supply Chain Management (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn the key theories and principles of logistics and supply chain management and the knowledge and skills of applying these in real business practices.
The module is delivered to you using weekly lectures and seminars, the seminars principally concentrate on the development of your discipline-specific problem solving skills and associated “soft skills”, e.g.
communication and presentation competencies.
Within this module, you will cover the following main topics: •	Logistics in manufacturing and service •	SCOR model •	Order management •	Demand management •	Inventory management •	Distribution strategy •	Sourcing management •	Supply chain coordination •	Supply chain network design •	Transportation management •	Global supply chain management •	The future of supply chain management The module will lead you to the development of supply chain management competencies and confidence in handling complex problems relating to logistics, supply chain and their inter-relationship.
In doing so, it will expose you to a wide range of quantitative or qualitative models and techniques that support the analysis relating these problems.
You will therefore become knowledgeable about the theory and practice of logistics and supply chain management and skilful in the use of various related tools and techniques.
On completing the module, you will be able to apply the theories and principles to analyse logistics and supply chain problems in a variety of business applications.
You will be capable of identifying the root causes of various supply chain problems and be capable of proposing relevant solutions.
BM9615 -
Project Management (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will learn about the role of a project and project manager in organisations and the concepts and techniques required to manage the core aspects of a project.
The main topics covered include the core knowledge areas outlined in A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK) published by Project Management Institute (PMI) as well as essential fundamental theories, knowledge, and techniques required to manage a project in contemporary business settings.
These topics include: •	Defining project characteristics, lifecycle, and activities.
•	Understanding how projects drive change and achieve strategic goals in organisations.
•	Realising the role of the project and project manager in various organisational structures and cultures.
•	Managing core project aspects, such as stakeholder relationships, scope, cost, schedule, and risk.
•	Distinguishing traditional, agile, and extreme project management approaches.
Drawing on contemporary project management research and business case studies, this module will develop your knowledge, skills, and confidence in managing projects and your learning with take place though lectures and practical IT workshops.
Your learning will expose you to a wide range of project management examples (successful and unsuccessful) and project management approaches (classic and contemporary) to broaden your understanding of project management in a dynamic business setting.
You will be given opportunities to work as a team and develop essential project management documents for a chosen project.
On completing this module, you will be able to utilise appropriate project management techniques and technical skills to effectively and efficiently manage different projects and you will be able to critically challenge the assumptions and existing practices in project management.
BM9616 -
Predictive Analytics (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will develop the knowledge and skills in applying a variety of quantitative data analysis techniques to analyse data sets, identify the patterns in the data, and predict future trends to support informed decision making in business contexts.
You will be introduced to predictive analytics using appropriate analytical tools, and your learning will cover a range of techniques to perform predictive analytics.
To be more specific, this module involves the following fundamental topics and techniques: •	Relationship analysis – applying correlation, linear and logistic regression analysis (and other techniques) to characterise relationships among business variables, identify patterns in data and predict future trends.
•	Forecasting models on time series data – analysing trend and other components on time-based historical data, developing an understanding of various approaches in business forecasting and exploring their use on data with the language R and other software tools such as SPSS; •	Classification and clustering – developing skills to process and analyse complex data sets by using machine learning techniques such as classification trees, clustering, etc.
You will become familiar with the role of predictive analytics techniques to predict what might happen in the future which would help set realistic goals, perform effective planning, and avoid risks in business settings.
BM9617 -
Analytics and Visualization for Management (Core,20 Credits)
This module introduces data literacy required as a key twenty-first century skill.
You will investigate the characteristics of data across different domains and learn about the concepts of data visualization by understanding, questioning, and problematizing how data are generated, analyzed, and used.
In this module you will develop the skills necessary to communicate analytical results to the management team.
You will learn the consulting skills critical to understand business problems and to develop solutions based upon analytics.
You will be able to apply its concepts and skills to visualize your own data, interpret the findings, and examine the impacts of data-driven decisions.
You will gain an understanding of how data visualization and analytics contribute towards management skills and the ways in which certain techniques can enhance the effectiveness of visualisations.
These topics will build and expand on some of the foundations gained via BM9503 Business Intelligence and Information Systems.
In this module you will be exposed to a range of tools and skills, including: •	Data abstraction – the types and semantics of data.
•	Review of fundamental statistical tools (including descriptive statistics, data organization, summary measures) •	Approaches to the visualization of categorical, ordinal, and numerical data.
•	Essential charts and graphical toolbox for data analysis •	Business strategy maps for data visualization based on Key Performance Indicators By the end of the module, •	you will be able to use the powerful data analysis and visualization tools, Power BI and Excel Dashboard, to analyze and visualize your data.
•	you will learn to develop confidence in visualising data sets based on strategic objectives of organizations.
•	You will build skills which enable you to interpret data and present your findings to a range of audiences.
MK9625 -
Marketing Metrics (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will provide you with a comprehensive understanding of how marketers can monitor and analyse the effectiveness of their marketing activity.
Whilst marketers have always attempted to assess the effectiveness of their campaigns, the digital explosion now offers an almost limitless range of data through which to measure performance.
This module will consider the most suitable metrics for both online and offline marketing activity.
Specifically, the module will address the following core themes: -	Overall Marketing Metrics: You will cover classic marketing metrics including return on investment and market share as a means of assessing overall marketing success.
You will also consider how marketers can use external sources of market data to inform strategic marketing decisions.
-	Offline Metrics: Here you will consider an array of techniques used to measure the success of traditional offline marketing channels.
For example, you will utilise metrics such as brand awareness and opportunities to see (OTS) in the context of advertising and advertising value equivalent (AVE) for public relations.
-	Online Metrics: You will interpret a range of online metrics used to assess digital marketing techniques.
This will include an appreciation of Google Analytics and other dashboards that assess the effectiveness of email and social media marketing.
-	Reporting: You will develop skills in how to interpret and present data in a way that can influence other business stakeholders.
MK9629 -
Digital and Data Driven Marketing (Optional,20 Credits)
This module is designed to develop your skills in understanding how one-to-one forms of marketing communications, across offline and online channels, can be combined into an overall campaign to generate new customers and enhance existing relationships.
To do this, the module is broken into three distinct themes: •	Principles of Direct and Digital Marketing: In this part of the module you will cover the fundamental practices in the direct marketing field, which will include acquisition and retention strategies, customer profiling and segmentation, database marketing, permission marketing and personalisation, relevant legislation and campaign testing.
•	Digital Media: In this section you will explore the range of communications media available, ranging from traditional offline channels (such as direct mail and telemarketing) through to the ever-growing range of digital media options (including social media, email, web design and mobile commerce).
•	Campaign Planning: Here you will be introduced to the principles of campaign design, from initial context analysis and goal setting through to campaign implementation and evaluation.
You will be encouraged to combine different marketing communications tools as part of an integrated campaign and consider campsign budgeting and measurement.
MO9635 -
Global Supply Network Management (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module, you will experience an extensive coverage on logistics and supply networks.
The module will enhance your strategic understanding about the complexities involved in supply network design and its architecture and you will learn to manage the supply networks strategically in a global and local context.
The module provides an understanding of the physical movements of goods through supply chain networks, the networks of organisations involved, and the modes of transport used.
The module will explore logistical and network solutions for real business distribution problems across both inland and overseas operations and the challenges and future opportunities of logistics providers/freight operators in the balancing of sustainability priorities.
The key themes include: Network design and architecture Warehouse trends, design, and management Transportation systems and Intermodality Forecasting and Inventory management Logistics and Distribution networks Supply network theory Automation and warehouse management Industry 4.0 The module also focuses on transport as a service to the public, both domestically and internationally, examining the allied industries it supports.
It also provides an appreciation of the socio-political debate surrounding the sustainability of different transport modes, industry agendas and governance frameworks, whilst considering the realities of such debates when serving and operating in local and international environments.
At the end of the module, you will be able to critically assess the strategic management of particular specialist areas of business such as logistics and supply chain management and apply and critically appraise this knowledge to relevant business and management contexts.
You will learn to conduct contemporary research into logistics and supply management.
In doing so, you will learn to develop your interpersonal communication skills and ability to work in teams.
You will develop critical thinking and problem-solving skills that contributes to your personal and professional development.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-business-and-analytics-uusbaa1:
UCAS Code N650
Applicants will need Maths and English Language at minimum grade 4/C, or equivalents.
A number of these books will also be available in the library, in either hard and/or electronic format

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-business-and-entrepreneurship-extended-degree-uusxer1:
This BA Business and Entrepreneurship programme is an innovative, one-of-a-kind programme designed to equip you with all the skills you need to bring your business ideas to life.
This programme is focused on supporting individuals to learn about entrepreneurship in a practical way, by engaging in entrepreneurial activities, and developing business ideas from day one.
While you learn through typical business and entrepreneurship modules, you’ll also work in a coaching environment, where you are supported by a team coach to develop your business ideas and integrate the knowledge from your modules.
Working with like-minded people across all levels of study, you will support each other in developing your businesses and becoming successful entrepreneurial thinkers together.
The programme offers opportunities to generate real revenue and pitch for funding to help grow your ideas.
All students develop entrepreneurial skills, and many utilise these in successful careers through graduate schemes or full-time employment in large corporations, SMEs, or other growing start-ups.
Check out our Business Courses or see which course you could progress onto: Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management MSc .
Entrepreneurship at Northumbria means many things to many people.
It could be starting a business, creating an opportunity, creating value for others, and more.
Because it means so many different things, we tailor the learning journey to what it means to you.
The programme focuses on the knowledge, learning, and personal development you can gain on this journey.
Not all ideas will be successful ones, and sometimes it is hard to deal with failure, but the programme helps you to build the confidence to give things a go, no matter how successful the outcome.
You will be introduced to a variety of business topics that are needed for a life either as an entrepreneur or as someone who is entrepreneurial in a company.
What is different about this programme is the practical, coaching environment you will work in.
You will be encouraged to ground the business knowledge and theory from your learning through creating real business ventures.
This will help you really develop your knowledge in a more practical fashion.
To support this approach you will work in a coaching team with other like-minded students to think about what you need to do and learn, and to take control of your own development.
This approach is adapted from the Team Academy approach to learning.
As not everyone wants to become an entrepreneur, it means we are a small team.
This environment is different to some of our larger business programmes and means you get to know staff and your peers very well, becoming part of a community which lasts well beyond university life.
Award-winning Business Clinic - Northumbria's
    student-led consultancy service, The Business Clinic,
    has supported over 500 business and has been recognised for it's excellence.
Collaborative Learning -
    You will work in a coaching team with like-minded students all of whom are
    developing their own businesses.
Research-active Academics -
    Including those researching real-world challenges, such as female-led
    entrepreneurship, local regeneration, and more.
Business and Management is
    ranked 9th in the UK for research power (REF, 2021).
This is a rise of 51
    places, the largest rise in the sector.
A whole lot of fun -
    Take part in lots of activities designed to develop your skills, enhance
    our community relationships and, most importantly: have fun!
You can join
    residentials, bootcamps, workshop sessions and more, with everyone across
    our entrepreneurship programmes.
Accredited Degree - BA (Hons) Business and Entrepreneurship is covered by the prestigious Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) accreditation for Newcastle Business School.
Student Rated - 100% of students studying Entrepreneurship at Northumbria felt they had chance to explore ideas and concepts in depth and believed the course positively challenged them to achieve their best work (NSS, 2025).
Academic Support - Personal Development at Northumbria is ranked 1st in the UK for Academic Support and Learning Opportunities (NSS, 2025).
The advantage of this BA Business and Entrepreneurship programme is that it prepares you for a variety of scenarios after university.
Many of our graduates continue their businesses using the skills and experiences they’ve gained during their studies, for example:
Rob Jones: Lundgren Tours
Renee Fraser-Shepherd: Sloobie Skiwear
Ollie Simpson: Sole Scene
Jake Stores: Blue Wing Marketing
Meanwhile, many of our graduates go to be entrepreneurial within a company.
You can read more about them here: Morgan , Lewis , and Sasha .
Ultimately, the course helps you to develop a wide variety of practical business skills which can be applied in a multitude of settings.
Many employers of our graduates have commented on the high level of interpersonal skills our graduates have developed by working in the practical, coaching environment.
You can also take a placement before your final year.
This could be going to work within a company or taking a year out to focus on getting your business going.
You also have the opportunity in your final year to take on a real-life consultancy within the award-winning Northumbria Business Clinic.
Here you will work in a team in a consultancy role for external organisations advising on strategy and pitching ideas.
The programme is also supported by the Willan Trust , who provide the opportunity for students to pitch for funding each year.
Successful students can receive anything up to £5000 a year to fund their projects.
This provides you not only the finance to support your business but legitimacy and credibility.
See other similar courses you may be interested in: Business and Human Resource Management BA
UCAS Code Z026
Find out more about the experiences our students have had studying Business and Entrepreneurship at Northumbria.
Check out some of the businesses which entrepreneurship students have developed.
There are a variety of ways you will learn on the programme.
To begin with, you are introduced to the basics of business and entrepreneurship.
Then you will focus on developing your understanding of entrepreneurship on a theoretical and a practical level.
Within these modules you will have lectures, seminars, and more practical workshops.
You will also learn through your coaching sessions.
We will introduce you to the concept of coaching and take you through how it can benefit you and your business.
Here you work on developing your businesses or enterprising activities, with the help of your team, integrating the knowledge you have developed in your modules.
The focus on these sessions is about you directing your own learning; you identify what you need to learn and work on how to do this.
The beginning of the course is focused on assessing through traditional means, such as essays and team projects.
As you progress, you are assessed through coursework and practical activities where you can assess your learning and your own personal development.
Newcastle Business School has a global reputation for
delivering some of the UK’s best business management education.
We’re part of
an elite group of business schools worldwide with double accreditation from the
Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) in business and
accounting.
Our staff within the Entrepreneurship, Innovation and
Strategy (EIS) department come to us from a range of academic, corporate and
entrepreneurial backgrounds and will share their expertise with students
through specialisms including digital business, innovation and social
enterprise.
The School’s teaching team are always looking to explore new fields
of knowledge and generate ground-breaking concepts and insights.
Bob Newbery
David Charles
Gary Bosworth
Kellie Forbes-Simpson
Nicholas Wong
Nicole EL Maalouf
Nikolaos Goumagias
Rebecca Prescott
At Newcastle Business School you’ll experience a first-class
education in a world-class environment.
From our social spaces and hub areas to
lecture theatres and exhibition spaces, our facilities are exceptional.
For example,
the 24/7 university library achieves some of the highest levels of student
satisfaction in the UK and has held the Cabinet Office accreditation for
Customer Service Excellence since 2010.
We’re also committed to helping you make the most of Technology
Enhanced Learning (TEL) by embedding it throughout the course.
Tools such as
the ‘Blackboard’ eLearning Portal and electronic reading lists are there to
help you efficiently and thoroughly prepare for seminars and independent
research.
Lecture capture software means you can revise previously lectured
material online in your time, as well as at your speed.
There are plenty of opportunities to put your learning into
practice through volunteering, internships and placements.
This includes the
Business Clinic that enables our students to participate in a ‘consultancy
firm’ to provide advice for our region’s businesses.
This course is a unique forward-thinking course and has been built on research about how people and entrepreneurs learn.
The course takes an approach that individuals learn by doing, by developing their practice, which you will do by running your venture or enterprising activities.
Research also tells us that networks are important to entrepreneurial individuals therefore, the programme supports you to develop your network both internally and externally.
We provide you opportunities to meet current entrepreneurs, who you could see as role models and mentors to inspire you while you are at university.
The topics and areas which you will learn on the programme are based on current research of what it takes to become an entrepreneur and run a successful business as well as developing students’ employability.
For example, recent research on identifying what it takes to develop a successful crowdfunding campaign is integrated into recognising Entrepreneurial Opportunities, which you will used to develop your own crowdfunding campaign.
The course helps you to develop as an entrepreneur as well as provides you with the knowledge and understanding about business.
The skills you need to become a successful entrepreneur will depend on the vision you have for your business, and that is where the course is very tailored to your needs.
You will develop key skills, essential for any career path – for example:
Taking the lead - this course provides you with many opportunities to take the lead.
Y ou can take the lead in your business or enterprising activities, your own learning, and can take the lead in your coaching team to be one of the role models on the programmes.
Networking - we provide you the opportunities to network with a variety of entrepreneurs.
For example, part of your assessment is hearing and assessing an entrepreneurs story.
Understanding your own motivations - As you engage in many different activities on the programme can reflect on your own motivations.
Therefore, not only do you develop knowledge and skills on this programme but you get to understand yourself a little bit more.
Problem solvers - many of the modules teaching you in way in which you can apply an entrepreneurship lens to many business problems, and give you the opportunities to do this in a practical way.
For example, yourself and team members will be encouraged to apply your theory and skills to real-world problems in seminars.
Should you wish to push your knowledge and skills even further, the
course also prepares you for postgraduate study – for example, on our MSc in Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management.
The programme works closely with the Student and Graduate Enterprise service.
This is a fantastic offer of support while you are at university and after you graduate.
The service offers a variety of 1-2-1 support and mentoring as well as access to the newly built university ' Incubator '.
Here are a selection of some of our Alumni who have been taught Entrepreneurship at Northumbria.
Thalia Ignatova
Freelance Digital & Growth Marketing Consultant.
James Bray
Digital Marketing Executive at Robson Laidler Accountants & Company Director at Bray Affiliate Ltd.
John Nichols
Founder & Editor-in-Chief at NFT Insider & Head of Content at pink.gg.
Sasha Green
Graduate Manager at Klarent Hospitality.
Lewis Blakelock
Assistant Investment Executive at FW Capital.
SM9413 -
Introduction to Entrepreneurship (Core,20 Credits)
This module introduces you to entrepreneurial thinking and action and provides opportunities to create, develop and test new entrepreneurial ideas.
The module reviews the importance of entrepreneurship for society and provides opportunities to learn from others.
The module introduces you to a range of thinking and supports you in developing and testing out new ideas – and importantly, communicating the value of these ideas.
Specifically, you will learn about value creation, entrepreneurial identity and entrepreneurial thinking and action.
You will learn about the basics of developing and testing the viability of your ideas.
SM9414 -
Student Enterprise: Building a Venture Team (Core,20 Credits)
This module is the key to your entrepreneurial learning in your first year.
The module supports you to develop your ideas and entrepreneurial mindset through team learning.
You will work in coaching teams and with support from your Team Coach you and your peers will work on integrating learning from your other Level 4 modules to support you to test and develop ideas which will build your entrepreneurial skills.
Combined with this is the all programme activities which support your entrepreneurial and team learning, through a residential and Bootcamp as well as student led enterprise events.
You will use developing your own trading business or by working on enterprising type activities such as through entrepreneurial societies to tests out your learning in a practical setting.
This module is self-directed so you and your peers will direct your own learning in coaching sessions by drawing in learning and topics form your other level 4 modules.
With support from your team Coach however some of the topics you may cover are; Team formation topics (from all programme activities) How to develop effective communication How to develop effective venture teams What is coaching and how to get the most from a coaching environment Venture development Topics (From Introduction to Entrepreneurship, Financial Decision making and Introduction to Marketing) How to come up with business ideas Ideation Business model canvas Lean start up Market research Developing a cashflow Writing a marketing plan Team development Topics (From Business, Economy and Society and Preparing for Professional Practice) Developing a social enterprise Team building and communication Reflective learning
SM9536 -
Creativity and Innovation (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will gain a comprehensive understanding of the nature and practice of creativity and innovation and how it can be applied, whether within the context of a new venture or an existing organisation.
The module will cover theories relating to innovation and its management within a strategic management context.
This will be combined with an introduction to processes of stimulating creativity in a variety of business contexts.
The module will seek to facilitate the development of practical skills to promote creative thinking through practice-based elements in which real world problems are introduced for the testing of creative teamworking techniques.
Specific topics will include: Innovation in a strategic context: What is innovation, innovation and industrial dynamics, innovation strategy, disruptive innovation The process of innovation and creativity: Models of innovation process, sources of innovation, open innovation, innovation management, creativity, design thinking.
The creative environment: The creative organisation, creative industries, creative class, creative places Innovation and creativity policy: Innovation systems and clusters, promoting creative places
SM9537 -
Born Global Enterprise (Optional,20 Credits)
Some enterprises are ‘born global’ – they operate internationally from the start.
Such companies stand out because of the way, speed and scale they gain presence, revenues and market share in several countries simultaneously.
They differ not only in their strategic and operational ambition, but also in the way their founders learn, make decisions and use networks creating powerful alliances.
This module will help you gain knowledge and understanding of ‘born global’ firms, their key characteristics, how they are launched and developed.
Using case studies, you will also learn about internationalization strategies and learning processes of born globals.
You will use your learning to develop a launch plan for a born global startup in your chosen industry.
The topics you will study will draw from the following themes: •	Born global firms: definitions, examples, characteristics, types •	Born global firms: case studies •	International Entrepreneurship: speed, scale and patterns •	Strategies for international success •	Thinking differently: learning processes of born global and their founders •	Use of networks and alliances •	Dilemmas: rapid growth vs control trade-off •	Planning to launch a ‘born global’ startup
SM9538 -
This module focuses on ways to conduct independent research, together with the key academic skills of analysis, synthesis and criticality.
You will be able to learn about processes and practices of conducting research from the initial idea to reporting results as well as understand the purpose of the research projects.
The module examines the principles of research design before progressing to a more detailed treatment of data collection and analysis.
You will be challenged to develop research ideas and critique existing literature primarily from academic sources.
You will gain an understanding of various means  of undertaking a research enquiry specifically to provide insights to solving a relevant problem, including activities as defining hypothesis/research questions, designing research objectives and research design that involves also budgetary limitations, primary and secondary data collection, research methods,  and structuring of the final results.
SM9540 -
Entrepreneurial Management (Core,20 Credits)
Successful entrepreneurship requires a broad understanding of management processes and techniques ranging from finance to strategy, HR and organisational behaviour.
This module provides you with an overview of key management techniques and ideas which will be useful in your future entrepreneurial career.
You will learn some basic concepts from a range of management disciplines with a focus on essential skills and their application in the entrepreneurial business.
Topics will include the following: Foundations of strategic management Entrepreneurial finance HRM for new businesses Organisational culture in the entrepreneurial business
SM9542 -
International Digital Economy (Optional,20 Credits)
This module aims to provide you with the knowledge and skills to understand how the emergence of the digital economy has created opportunities and challenges for international business.
The module is delivered through lectures and seminars.
The module will cover the following issues: •	The scale and scope of electronic commerce •	Digital infrastructures •	Digitalisation and international business •	International institutions and the digital economy •	Transnational businesses and national governance structures •	International digital platforms Through this module you will gain skills enabling you to analyse the growth and developing of the international digital economy.
On completing the module, you will appreciate the scale, scope and dynamism of the international digital economy.
SM9543 -
Recognising Entrepreneurial Opportunities (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will help you to better understand how entrepreneurs identify opportunities The module explores two phases of the opportunity recognition process: generation and assessment.
Within a spirit of research, we will be led by what interests us at the time, however this will include an exploration of: key philosophical debates (and why these matter to your process); necessary individual and firm level attributes (using intention and orientation models); sources of entrepreneurial opportunities; socialising the opportunity; subjective value and types of value; shadow opportunities; and timing of opportunity.
SM9552 -
Entrepreneurship Theory (Core,20 Credits)
The module focuses on The Entrepreneur and the Role of Entrepreneurship Theory.
It will develop your learning from Introduction to Entrepreneurship [insert module code] in year one.
It is also the module which will help you to decide, through a process of self-analysis, whether you want to take the venture start-up pathway (2) or follow the more theoretical pathway (1).
You will learn how each phase and stage of venture creation and start-up is underpinned by rigorous applied entrepreneurship theory.
It will increase your capacity to think on your feet and be innovative; it will develop your life-long learning skills and your self-awareness and teach strategies to develop your psychological resources, such as hope and resilience.
By the end of the module students will have developed a start-up venture which they can deliver at the Entrepreneurship EXPO.
Additionally, you will learn you how to create and participate in action learning sets which form the bedrock of the start-up pathway, and decide whether this more experiential approach to learning is right for you.
Through this module you will learn about: • Different conceptualisations of success in entrepreneurship • The difference between being an entrepreneur and being enterprising • phases/stage of  in new venture creation • The psychology of entrepreneurship • o	Ideation o	Feasibility o	Market research o	Competitor analysis o	Forms of venture finance o	Brand development o	Financial planning and costing • Tolerance of uncertainty, ambiguity, risk and failure • Learning theory and learning styles • How to create, lead and manage action learning sets
SM9553 -
Student Enterprise: Developing a Venture Team (Core,20 Credits)
This module is the key to your entrepreneurial learning in your second year.
The module supports you to develop and grow your venture and enterprising activities through continuing your self-directed approach to learning in a team setting.
You will do this by continuing to work in your coaching team and apply a self-directed approach to your learning.
You and your peers will work on growing your ideas by continuing to integrate learning from your other modules.
By doing this you will be working on developing your entrepreneurial mindset as well as your ventures or activities.
We will also support you to get your venture ready in order to take the Student Enterprise Placement year if you wish.
You will continue to contribute to the all programme activities using this to develop your leadership capabilities.
This module is self-directed so you and your peers will direct your own learning in coaching sessions with support from your team Coach however some of the topics you may cover are; Venture Development Topics (from Entrepreneurial Management, Entrepreneurial Theory and Creativity and Innovation) Sale processes Marketing campaigns Growth strategies, models and theories Growing sales through customer relationship management Operations and logistics Venture growth topics (From Business Research and Analysis) Managing customer data for business growth Marketing and sales for growth There are several activities which you will take part in across the year, some will be other cohorts on the programme Bootcamp Student led enterprise events
ML5029 -
Placement Abroad (assistantship) (Optional,120 Credits)
You will focus on experiential learning to enable you to develop your linguistic and employability skills whilst immersed in the culture of the host country as an integral part of this module.
The placement abroad provides you with the opportunity to develop your oral and written communicative competence in French or Spanish.
Living and studying or working abroad will enable you to further develop your understanding of the business, economic, political, social and cultural environment of a French or Spanish-speaking country.
The module aims to enable you to apply your linguistic competences (speaking, listening, reading, and writing) in a working environment.
You will extend your knowledge of more complex lexical and syntactical structures of the French or Spanish language appropriate to the business and social environment of a wide variety of sectors and disciplines.
You will have the opportunity to apply this knowledge and skills to increasingly complex situations as well as develop as an autonomous learner.
SM9550 -
Business Start Up Placement Year (Optional,120 Credits)
The business start-up year is a full year 120 credit module available on BA (Hons) Entrepreneurship.
It is taken as an additional year between levels 5 and 6 and gives you an opportunity to focus on and run your business venture.
The placement consists of 48 weeks of running your own business, supported by the university.
This experience year is an important element of your course structure and it will provide you with the opportunity to develop and test your business ideas, and decide whether self-employment, running a business or entrepreneurship is the path you want to take on graduating or in the future.
It will also provide you with a rich variety of learning experiences which will enhance and feed into your final year when you return.
However, when taken and passed, the business start-up year is recognised in your transcript as a 120 credit Work Placement Module and on your degree certificate in the format "BA (Hons) (with Work Placement Year)".
The learning and teaching on your placement will be recorded in the training agreement signed by you, your assigned university mentor, and the University.
SM9640 -
Digital Entrepreneurship (Optional,20 Credits)
This module aims to provide you with the knowledge and skills to understand the start-up and development of companies operating within digital markets.
The module will cover the following issues: •	The growth and scope of e-commerce •	Business models for digital enterprises •	Digital platforms •	Management within digital markets •	Competition within digital markets •	Public policy and regulatory implications Through this module you will gain skills enabling you to analyse the growth and developing of digital entrepreneurial activities.
On completing the module, you will understand how companies grow and appreciate the dynamic and complex nature of the relationship between the digital enterprise and its wider context.
SM9642 -
Entrepreneurial Ecosystems and Policy (Optional,20 Credits)
This module focuses on the external context for entrepreneurial businesses and the design and implementation of public policy to stimulate levels of entrepreneurship.
You will therefore learn how entrepreneurial success at the level of a country or region can be shaped by the external environment and how governments are seeking to encourage and support entrepreneurship.
An entrepreneurial ecosystem is ‘a set of interconnected entrepreneurial actors (both potential and existing), entrepreneurial organisations, institutions and entrepreneurial processes which formally and informally coalesce to connect, mediate and govern the performance within the local entrepreneurial environment’ (Mason and Brown, 2014).
You will explore the nature of these elements and their combination in different contexts as a means to understand the differences in levels of entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial behaviour in different places.
Examples will be provided of successful and less developed locations, and the local policy responses.
Specific topics will include: Definitions and elements in entrepreneurial ecosystems The role of institutions such as universities, finance capital etc Measuring entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship policies Entrepreneurship in metropolitan contexts High tech enterprise and university spin offs Rural enterprise Entrepreneurship policy in developing countries
SM9643 -
Family Business Studies (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will introduce students to all aspects of family business studies.
It will cover seminal issues including the evolution of family businesses and differing interpretations of family business including the distinction between family and non-family business.
The role of family businesses worldwide and how they operate in different socioeconomic, political and cultural contexts.
Drivers of longevity in family business including succession planning/management, next-generation engagement, innovation, transgenerational issues (such as transmission of skills), change management and entrepreneurship.
Finally, there will be special focus areas such as: emotions in family business (including socioemotional wealth); values in family business (including governance and CSR); family business strategy and competitive advantage (including Resource-Based View); and the function family business history (including identity creation/maintenance, branding and impression management).
SM9650 -
Business Ethics for International Management (Optional,20 Credits)
You will develop an understanding of moral philosophy and be able to apply these intellectual frameworks in the context of various contemporary issues in international business.
In doing so, you will be able to identify the taken for granted assumptions and logics which shape practices in international business and critically evaluate their veracity.
This will enable you to better apply you own independent critical thought in situations where conflicts arise and therefore require a degree of negotiation, for example in issues such as executive pay, philanthropy, workplace rights, climate change, privacy or modern slavery.
Whether developing organisational policy, representing the organisation in the media or making agreements with a range of multinational organisational stakeholders, you will be required to anticipate and plan for objections and to identify weaknesses and contradictions in your own arguments, thereby enabling you to better manage ethical conflict at work.
SM9654 -
Contemporary Issues in Entrepreneurship (Core,20 Credits)
This module offers an opportunity to develop an understanding of and interest in contemporary issues in entrepreneurship.
The word “entrepreneurship” has evolved over recent years and the term now covers a diverse range of social and economic actors, processes and situations.
Entrepreneurship as an academic domain has exploded in diverse ways.
This module aims to introduce you to some of the key themes of contemporary entrepreneurship research.
The content will be flexible in order to showcase the current, leading-edge research interests of faculty and will have three broad themes: Entrepreneurial performance and growth: Consideration of the links between economic and entrepreneurial performance, and lessons for growth, prosperity, economic policy and job creation.
Possible topics will include creative/rural industries entrepreneurship, small business creation and development, innovation, incubation and networks, supporting small business, and SME finance and venture capital.
Entrepreneurial actors: Consideration of the person of the entrepreneur and entrepreneurial behaviours as well as socioeconomic dimensions such as labour markets, demography and entrepreneurial heterogeneity.
Possible topics will include gender, entrepreneurship, social, community and ethnic entrepreneurship, management and leadership skills development and growth issues.
Entrepreneurial frameworks: Consideration of entrepreneurship theoretical frameworks and the ethics of entrepreneurship, as well as the impact of culture (organisational, regional, national and international) including entrepreneurship education and training.
Possible topics will include entrepreneurial learning and entrepreneurship education, sustainability and environmental issues, and entrepreneurial philanthropy.
On completion of the module, you will be able to demonstrate critical thinking skills and oral & written communication skills.
SM9691 -
Student Enterprise: Leading a Venture (Core,20 Credits)
This module brings together all your entrepreneurial learning to support your future plans.
The module will support you to understanding your own entrepreneurial effectiveness by how you have lead a venture or taken a leadership role in enterprising activities.
You and your peers will work on understanding your own entrepreneurial effectiveness by integrating learning from your time on the programme and thinking about your future plans and thus a focus on how you, your venture or your enterprising activities need to develop before you graduate to support your future career.
If you have decided to take a more enterprising career again you will focus on understanding how you need to develop your leadership capabilities for graduate success.
You will do this by continuing to work in your coaching team and being supported by a Team Coach.
You will take a leadership role in the all programme events and supports on the programme to develop their entrepreneurial learning.
This module is self-directed so you and your peers will direct your own learning in coaching sessions with support from your team Coach however some of the topics you may cover are; Sustaining a venture (From Digital Entrepreneurship and Entrepreneurial eco-systems and Policy Securing finance for business growth Running an ethically and socially responsible business Hiring and employing staff Professionalising your business Legal and financial issues of sustaining a business Options of closing a business There are several activities which you will take part in across the year, some will be other cohorts on the programme Bootcamp Student led enterprise events

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-business-and-entrepreneurship-uusber1:
UCAS Code N155
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Business and Entrepreneurship.
From a combination of acceptable Level 3 qualifications which may include: A-level, BTEC Diplomas/Extended Diplomas, Scottish and Irish Highers, Access to HE Diplomas, or the International Baccalaureate.
International applicants shoud have a minimum overall IELTS (Academic) score of 6.0 with 5.5 in each component (or an approved equivalent*).

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-business-and-human-resource-management-extended-degree-uusxrm1:
With BA (Hons) Business and Human Resource Management, learn to develop a company's most important asset: people.
BA (Hons) Business and Human Resource Management is designed to develop your capabilities to work at a strategic level around attracting, developing and engaging the right people.
With most contemporary organisations recognising that people are their most important asset, a career in Human Resources enables you to play a key role in organisational success.
Business Studies at Northumbria is ranked 6th in the UK (Daily Mail University Guide, 2025).
Business and Management is ranked 9th in the UK for research power (REF, 2021).
See other similar courses you may be interested in: Business Management BA (Hons)
UCAS Code Z033
Our BA (Hons) Business and Human Resource Management programme features research-rich, but practice-led, teaching that develops your cultural, contextual and ethical professional understanding.
Throughout the programme, we’ll support you to develop your ability to practice as a Human Resources professional.
This includes not only gaining knowledge of contemporary HR issues such as HR Analytics, Reward and Performance, and Resourcing and Development for Diversity, but learning how to practically apply this knowledge in an organisational context.
You’ll undertake this through student-led, experiential, problem-based learning for which you’re supported to work interactively and collaboratively.
You’ll learn through real-world case studies of multinational corporations and regional/local SMEs, as well as public and not-for-profit organisations and social enterprises, cultivating your capacity for practical application, leadership and management.
Virtual, self-directed learning technologies support you 24/7 including extensive, carefully curated resources from the world’s leading management researchers and practitioners.
Our eLearning portal also provides straightforward access to the
materials you will need to successfully complete and submit your assessments.
You can also choose to spend a placement year in industry.
We have strong links with a wide range of local through to international organisations offering excellent placement opportunities.
Alternatively, you might choose to take a study year abroad, a chance to experience a different academic environment and culture through our partners in countries including Japan, Australia, Europe and US.
Whether you work or study, this crucial, real-world experience will enhance your options for professional employment or other enterprise-related activity.
The development of your research and discovery capabilities is underpinned by both statistical and qualitative approaches.
In the final year, this culminates in a 40-credit student-led, supervisor-supported integrative dissertation, a ‘live client’ management enquiry or consultancy project with our Business Clinic.
It all contributes to your real-world learning.
Our academic teaching teams comprise experienced HR practitioners and researchers who continue to be actively engaged in professional practice.
To maintain their professional profiles, our staff are actively engaged in consultancy, enterprise, organisational consultancy and research in areas such as supporting workforces through global crises, financial crime, the ageing workforce, organisational psychology, social entrepreneurship, business ethics and corporate social responsibility.
Our academics are also members of signature research groups that include digital business, strategic innovation and entrepreneurial leadership, and responsible business.
The involvement of our academics in these activities directly informs the content of modules we teach offering the chance to develop up-to-the-minute understanding of the challenges of complex, global workplaces.
David Hart
Lecture capture software means you can revise previously lectured material online in your time, as well as at your own speed.
Our clients are drawn from a range of organisations including multinationals, SMEs, not-for-profit charities and social enterprises from across the region and nationally.
Northumbria University is a research-rich, business-focused, professional university with a global reputation for academic excellence.
Our ethos underpins the problem-based, experiential learning approaches embedded within our research-rich curriculum.
This approach will equip you to apply and develop knowledge in ‘real world’ situations reflecting the contemporary nature of human resources, mindful of the cultural context and able to act ethically with integrity.
In the final year of the programme, you’ll develop your capabilities as a critically reflective HR professional capable of making a strategic impact through proactively leading change.
As well as tutor-directed, research-rich modules, you’ll undertake a substantial, independent research-based project relating to your chosen subject specialism.
This project will help you develop and demonstrate your curiosity, creative problem-solving and innovative capability to critically evaluate and analyse academic or professional practice.
At Newcastle Business School we’re committed to preparing you for your future career and helping you compete in the graduate labour market, applying your own learning to your own career planning.
Our BA (Hons) Business and Human Resource Management programme is designed to support you in developing the key competencies, skills and attitude that graduates need.
It
provides you with the opportunity to gain an undergraduate honours degree in
Business and HRM alongside professional membership from the Chartered Institute
of Personnel and Development (CIPD).
Developing leadership, enterprise and employability capabilities is at the heart of all module learning experiences and assessment.
We offer a number of additional opportunities to enhance your CV, develop your employability or enterprise skills, and increase commercial awareness.
These include work placements, overseas travel and study, guest speakers and networking.
We have links with the Northumbria University Business
student society, which provide additional guest lectures and networking
opportunities, as well as mock interviews to improve your preparation for
future roles.
There are also volunteering programmes both within and outside the University, and for representing your programme at Programme or School level.
Over the past five years, many of our students have successfully secured Human Resource Management positions in public and private organisations in roles for companies and organisations including PWC, Nissan, ITV and local authorities.
Others have moved outside HRM to secure roles as management consultants and operations managers.
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study at Northumbria, Speak to staff and students from the course and get a tour of the facilities.
Business Analysis for Decision Making (20 Credits)
Preparing for Professional Practice (20 Credits)
Business, Economy and Society (20 Credits)
HR9413 -
People, Management and Organisations (20 Credits)
This module examines the foundations of organisations, their management and their people through which you will develop understanding of how people and work are organised; principles that underpin all business programmes.
Organisational behaviours are interdependent, and this requires us to look at ongoing relationships – of both co-operation and conflict – between organisational functions, whether finance, marketing, HR, as well as the broader context and external environment.
Employers seek out graduates that have the knowledge and skills to transform organisation in the face of continuous, rapid economic, environmental and social change.
Therefore, this module will develop your understanding of how organisational sustainability and team performance might be enhanced through your heightened awareness of people’s workplace behaviour, actions and attitudes.
We will examine aspects at the organisation and work level (macro-level) such as: •	Changing nature of work, of employment and of organisations •	Ethics, power and control And at the team and individual level (micro-level), such as: •	Leading effective teams •	Difference and diversity •	Motivation, commitment and engagement As we examine these aspects you will be introduced to a range of concepts, theories, models and subject knowledge and will apply these through a problem-solving approach, in a practical discipline-specific context using case studies, reflection upon personal understanding and experience and real organisation examples.
Throughout, you will be encouraged to adopt a critical perspective – to analyse and challenge what you read and hear.
You will consider whose interests are served by conventional ways of understanding organisations, to become more aware of your own bias – perhaps causing you to re-think or your preconceived assumptions and beliefs.
HR9534 -
Resourcing and Development for Diversity (20 Credits)
‘Resourcing and Development for Diversity’ considers how HR practices can be utilised to ensure a diverse and inclusive workforce.
This goes beyond the ‘business case’ approach to recognise other perspectives, that increasing workforce diversity does not only ensures equitable access to services and employment but also enables profitability through access to diverse markets.
You will examine this premise within the wider context of social, economic and demographic changes, alongside local, national and global concerns.
Your learning will focus upon resourcing and development activities, specifically, how organisations can promote diversity through recruitment and retention, ensure inclusion in organisational life and provide accessible career paths with the aim of increasing representation at senior levels.
The effectiveness of practices to support this endeavour, such as monitoring workforce demographics, mentoring, network and support groups and zero tolerance of discrimination and harassment, will be examined.
You will explore the role of development for ensuring that organisational commitments to diversity and inclusion are reflected in practice.
In doing so, you will analyse specific organisational cases, focusing on those characteristics protected by law, as well as developing an understanding of other visible and non-visible differences, such as background, culture and accent.
Your understanding will be underpinned by a consideration of the historic development of particular norms and stereotypes, how these impact on practices and how they can be challenged.
You will also reflect on the ethical framework required to support diversity and inclusion, including values of openness, listening to diverse perspectives and inclusive participation in decision-making.
This learning will be invaluable to your future employment, enterprise/entrepreneurial activity.
HR9535 -
HR Analytics and the Labour Market (20 Credits)
HR Analytics and the Labour Market will introduce you to key theories in labour market analysis by understanding how equilibrium is achieved between the supply of and demand for labour through the dynamic interplay of wage structures and levels, employment levels and workforce utilisation.
You will develop your knowledge of both macro and micro economic theory including the role of governments in labour market regulation, the comparative influence of trade unions, comparative analyses of the distribution of income and wealth and of global workforce mobility.
Within this context, you will develop your skills of critical and analytical thinking which are central to all graduate employability, enterprise and entrepreneurial activity and with specific relevance to HR and people management.
Your learning will be research-informed, focusing on understanding the gathering, organisation, analysis and modelling of macro labour market data and firm level HR data such as attendance, turnover, salaries, productivity, and performance, to examine the contribution such analyses and models can make to the strategic management of organisations.
You will also become familiar with Workforce Planning and other Management Information used inside organisations alongside labour market data from government and other sources.
This module therefore builds upon analysis undertaken at level 4.
You will develop graduate skills in interpreting trends and potential causation in order to demonstrate impact, support evidence-based decision-making and inform strategy.
The module therefore represents a shift from the ‘what’ of HR and people management, to the ‘how’ it can be done.
You will also learn how to communicate data in meaningful and accessible ways in order to gain trust and management buy-in to HR proposals.
HR9536 -
Reward and Performance (20 Credits)
Employee reward systems are of fundamental importance to the employment relationship; providing an important source of influence over employee behaviour and, so, over organisational performance.
Reward systems are also the principal cause of conflict between employers and employees, and by far the most expensive part of people management.
As such, their management principally entails the management of risk.
You will build a reward system from scratch.
By utilising the full range of contextual analysis and organisational mechanisms you will enable the system to properly balance the inherent risks over conflict and resources, with the intention of optimising the potential for employee performance.
This will entail the development of strategic reward objectives and their implementation through the design of: job and pay structures; pay policies; and pay for performance approaches.
This research-rich learning will draw upon existing knowledge of motivation, whilst developing knowledge of the application and effectiveness of reward and performance management.
Much of this knowledge will be technical and skill-based, though you will also develop an understanding of important tensions and contradictions implicit in this area of management.
The management of reward concerns the allocation of valuable organisational resources, this inevitably requires the recognition and resolution of conflicts of interest.
The management of performance is also riven with controversy, which you will learn to navigate effectively.
The centrality of reward and performance management highlights the value of this module for your future career.
Management Research and Analysis (20 Credits)
HR9539 -
Employment Law (20 Credits)
The relationship between an employer and its employees is regulated by employment law, thereby providing a framework for HR Professionals and other managers making key people decisions.
Both large and small-scale decisions made by employers such as recruitment, development, and changing, or implementing, policies, procedures and terms and conditions, all require a knowledge of employment law implications.
Through this module you will develop your introductory understanding of key areas of, and differing perspectives on, UK employment law with the aim of providing advice and protecting employers from discriminatory and unlawful practices.
This practical knowledge is underpinned with an initial consideration of how employment law is created and how to source reliable information on employment law.
You will focus upon how to apply employment law in practical and realistic employment scenarios.
These case studies are drawn from ongoing issues for HR professionals including recruitment, pay, discipline, grievance, capability, as well as common areas of case law, such as discrimination.
You will practically examine how organisational policies, procedures and employment practices can be adapted to take account of current and future developments in employment law.
You will also develop understanding of the UK Employment Tribunal process and appeals against its judgments.
Upon completion of this module you will be equipped to demonstrate your knowledge, understanding and application of employment law which will be invaluable for you in your graduate human resources and/or management role.
HR9590 -
Progressing Professional Practice (Core,20 Credits)
Your learning journey in this module will consist of a combination of tutor-led and learner-led session activities.
Tutor-led research-informed seminar sessions will facilitate learner-led activities to develop your verbal and written communication skills in the context of your emerging graduate and professional identity.
Topic areas will include developing persuasive arguments, business storytelling and using coaching techniques to support effective team performance.
Learner-led activities will further develop your awareness of your own personal skills and attributes and identification of areas for further development with the context of the professional narratives, journeys and reflections of prominent leaders, with an emphasis on positioning your graduate and professional identity.
HR9636 -
Strategic Leadership for Responsible Organisational Change (20 Credits)
Change is a constant factor in today’s globalised business world.
All organisations, whether private, public NFP or social enterprises need to adapt to a rapidly changing external environment and world developments in technology and economics, the call for more social responsibility, wicked problems such as climate change, increased international competition and global pandemics.
In order to address these issues, organisations need to create strategy that can respond as required in an agile manner and develop leaders who can get the best out of their teams in times of uncertainty and change.
Strategic Leadership and Organisational Change will equip you with the key graduate tools necessary for you to critically engage with the nature of strategy and change.
It will critically examine the processes involved in setting an organisation's direction, objectives and priorities in changing landscapes, in focusing internal energy and resources to achieve the objectives and in aligning internal and external stakeholders.
The module deals with analysis, decision making and planning alongside the implementation of strategic plans and organisational change programmes to meet key internal and external objectives.
The module will introduce you to effective strategic leadership and tools and instruments that can help you in developing and implementing effective strategies which are central to your future employability, enterprise or entrepreneurial activity.
You will learn how critically engage with change models, to questioning their relevance in an unstable world and recognise the value of unpredictable crisis driven change.
You will examine the inequalities and unintended consequences borne out though change programmes and critically appraise the nature of leadership by engaging with leadership theorising.
HR9637 -
Transforming Self and Organisations (Core,20 Credits)
Successive global and national crises and organisational failures have demonstrated that conventional approaches to understanding and managing organisations and their people are less than effective.
Transforming Self and Organisations will support you in developing alternative approaches to analysing organisations, people and work practices.
Building upon the multiple perspectives that you have been introduced to in the second year of your programme and upon your understanding from the module “People, Management and Organisations”, a research-rich curriculum will enable you to develop your appreciation and application of Critical Management tools and perspectives which challenge conventional approaches to understanding organisations.
Drawing upon tools from, for example, identity, aesthetics, power and culture, you will develop your capabilities for questioning the neoliberal status-quo and the politics of managerialist and performance-driven agendas.
You will examine the practices of large corporates through to SMEs, NFPs and social enterprises, interrogating, challenging, questioning what is typically taken-for-granted, seen as usual and appropriate, to recognise the inherent power and control that exists, to propose far-reaching change within organisations and society that prioritises fairness, justice, equality, diversity and sustainability.
Your learning will place you in good stead to bring about future transformation within organisations.
In adopting these alternative Critical perspectives on organisations so this may also challenge your own assumptions, values and beliefs transforming yourself.
HR9638 -
Employment Relations (Optional,20 Credits)
- Critical and practical approaches and perspectives towards the employment relationship and how they impact organisations within the UK and internationally - The connection of the employment relationship to wider trends in the economy, society, politics and technology - Employment relations processes including different forms of employee voice and participation and how these can contribute to a meaningful voice at work and influence workplace culture - The role and influence of different actors in the employment relationship including employees, managers, the state and trade unions - Conflict, mobilisation, negotiation, mediation and resolution at work - Skills in negotiation, including strategic power and constructive compromise, through a simulation of collective bargaining
HR9640 -
Contemporary issues in Business and Management (Optional,20 Credits)
This module brings together the latest research in contemporary issues in business and management, building upon the foundation developed in earlier modules to critical understand current issues and analysing how they affect strategy development and management.
The module builds critical analysis and encourages a close look at diverse viewpoints on ongoing debates on contemporary business and management research at macro-meso-micro levels.
You will consider various contemporary business and management challenges, critically examining how organisations plan to respond to strategic challenges, use technology, innovate, create, operate virtually, collaborate, engage employees, manage knowledge, and learn collectively.
The module aims to assist students in comprehending, analysing, and evaluating various contemporary issues in business and management.
By the end of the module, you will have acquired the skills to critically assess current business and management issues, evaluating social, organizational, leadership and individual responses to these challenges.
This involves establishing meaningful connections between theories and contemporary issues in business and management.
The activities and assessments are designed to help you understand the implications of these contemporary issues in organizational settings and to develop effective managerial responses.
This academic journey will support you in cultivating the confidence and insight necessary to navigate the intricacies of contemporary management.
It provides opportunities for critical analysis, debate, critique, and reflection on personal career goals.
HR9692 -
Futures of Work (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will provide students with a broad, interdisciplinary understanding of contemporary organisational practice and emergent forms of work.
Drawing from organisational psychology and sociology, the module will explore changes through a macro and micro perspective, allowing for appreciation of responses to societal change at the individual and collective level.
Building upon core levels 4 People, Management and Organisations and Business, Economy and Society, the relevancy of the module lies in its future-orientated focus.
‘Futures of Work’ will provide an overview of key changes to the labour market and organisational practices, such as those connected to the rise of the gig economy and automation, and examine how managers and organisations are responding to these changes..
The module will encourage students to critically assess issues connected to the future of work through longstanding concepts such as agency, time, dignity and power.
The module has broad relevancy to business and management students as it offers insights that will assist in understanding a complex and dynamic labour market.
By focusing on emergent trends and alternative ways of working, students will be able to identify how organisations change, adapt and ‘future-proof’ themselves in response to external environmental and societal changes.
The module will prepare students to enter a dynamic workplace by equipping them with the theoretical framework to understand emerging trends and the conceptual lens through which to recognise how individuals and organisations as a collective are affected.
HR9693 -
Fiction and Organisation (Optional,20 Credits)
Through this module you will develop your understanding of academic critique and gain confidence in your ability to construct academic arguments by critically reflecting upon a range of fictions.
You will encounter theories and perspectives that will support your understanding of a range of contemporary organisational issues and improve your ability to separate rhetoric from reality.
Key theories will include gender, identity, performativity, power and the nature of being, such as embodiment.
You will learn the benefit of reading widely and how to see real life scenarios as human stories and shared narratives.
This will support you to empathise and see people, and yourself, from different perspectives.
Learning from a variety of quality fictions related to the world of work will help you in developing critical thinking skills and how to apply the persuasive narrative style of fiction to evoke affective responses from colleagues and audiences in business contexts.
These skills are essential to performing well in academic work as well as operating at a strategic level in organisations, particularly when managing projects which necessitate challenging existing ways of doing things, from eliminating discriminatory practices to implementing large-scale change.
The assessment on this module will support you in reflecting on the implications of what you have learned for your future professional career as well as wider business and social change.
You will also consider your future career as a professional and your potential social impact in a way that goes beyond standard preconceptions of how business professionals think and what they do.
You will develop these skills by engaging with fictional narratives (i.e.
reading, listening and watching).
Fictions are typically more accessible to wider audiences compared to management texts as sources of information about management and organisational practice.
While fiction is often defined as something which is imaginary or invented, it is often inspired by real life; it feels real because it draws us closer to different experiences and allows us to glimpse alternative possibilities.
Therefore, through fiction, you will consider aspects of organisational life and management that are not typically covered in traditional business and management textbooks, such as emotions, prejudice, sexuality, and humour, and thus develop a more holistic picture of management practice.
HR9694 -
Ethics in Business (Optional,20 Credits)
After undertaking this module, you will be able to identify the normative presuppositions involved in ethical dialogue and use this in your analysis of ethical issues.
This will enable you to better understand conflicts over such issues as executive pay, prompt payment, workplace rights, privacy, positive discrimination and many others.
When developing organisation policy, representing the organisation in the media, negotiating agreements and otherwise undertaking work with an ethical dimension, this will enable you to anticipate and plan for objections, to identify weaknesses and contradictions in your interlocutors’ arguments and your own and thereby enable you to better manage ethical conflict at work.
Through this process you will also improve your internal ethical dialogue.
Clarifying your own normative presuppositions, values and virtues and better understanding their implications and exclusions will enable you to reflect upon the coherence of your own moral agency.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-business-and-human-resource-management-uusbrm1:
UCAS Code N110
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Business and Human Resource Management.
Mandatory Professional Fee: In order to obtain the professional accreditation of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD), you will be required to join as a Student Member from your first year of study.
There is a one-off joining fee of approximately £40, plus an annual membership fee of approximately £109.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-business-and-management-distance-learning-dupbde1:
Take your learning further with our distance learning Business and Management BA (Hons).
If you have a Level 4 qualification in a related subject – such as a Higher National Certificate, Higher Apprenticeship, Certificate in Higher Education or equivalent – our flexible course will allow you to top up your studies and fast-track to a BA (Hons) degree.
From Managing People to Judgement and Decision Making, Digital Business to Strategy, you’ll study modules that have been handpicked to build on your existing business knowledge and develop key transferable skills.
By graduation, you’ll be empowered to take the next step in your career, armed with a qualification that will supercharge your CV and a skill set that will help you stand out to employers.
We strive to produce responsible business leaders who can contribute to the creation of a more inclusive, more sustainable society.
Throughout, you’ll explore the cultural and ethical contexts in which international business operates, as well as the impact that commercial leaders can have on society.
Plus, you’ll be free to study whenever and where you want and pay for your fees in module-by-module instalments.
The course is covered by the prestigious Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) accreditation for Newcastle Business School.
It’s time to manage your future and help us create a better tomorrow.
Already have an undergraduate degree?
Discover our online Masters in Business and Management.
Mode of Study 3 years Distance Learning
Location 110 Middlesex Street, London
City London
Start Upcoming Intakes - October 2025, January 2026, April 2026
You will access all your learning materials through our eLearning portal (elp) Blackboard Ultra.
You will study one module at a time.
The form of your assessments will vary between modules – they could take the form of an essay or a multiple-choice exam – but all of them will be submitted online.
There will be no need to come to campus throughout the duration of your course.
Each of our modules has been carefully designed to ensure you gain the knowledge you need about that topic in the most effective, most engaging way.
However, all of them will be split into multiple sessions and follow a three-stage structure: Learn, Explore and Apply.
In each teaching week, you’ll have the chance to engage with interactive tools and media, ranging from text-based to video/audio (“Learn”), as well as complete online readings (“Explore”) in your own time.
There will also be the chance to test yourself and receive formative feedback.
You’ll join a supportive, lively online community.
Throughout the course, you will participate in virtual discussion boards with your academics and fellow students, sharing your thoughts, knowledge and experience with them as you learn (“Apply”).
In addition, you will be able to attend live webinars on key aspects of the module and its delivery/structure, such as assessments.
These sessions will offer you the chance to engage with your tutors in real time and ask any questions you have about the course.
If you are unable to attend these scheduled sessions, they will also be recorded so you can watch them at a time that works for you.
As well as the support of your module tutors and fellow students, you’ll have access to our Student Success Team from day one through to graduation.
Whether you need pastoral guidance, help with assessments or advice about fees, they will be with you at every step.
Blackboard Ultra also offers 24/7 access to a range of advice and support services, such as Ask4Help, too.
You will also be able to access over half a million books and e-books through our online University Library Services.
If you’re thinking of studying an online degree, you probably want to gain a real insight in the subject.
It’s therefore reasonable to expect that the teaching staff on the course of your choice are industry experts with exceptional knowledge and experience.
Our course sits within the Newcastle Business School - a faculty which has distinguished itself with its outstanding research and history of delivering quality digital business education.
Throughout the course, you will be supported by dedicated academic tutors and staff.
Northumbria prides itself on its outstanding reputation for research work.
Our course sits within Newcastle Business School, a research-rich school with a strong history of applied research.
We were the first Business School in Europe to secure double accreditation in both Business and Accounting from the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB International) – a mark of excellence that puts us in an elite group of schools worldwide.
NBS also has relationships with 16 professional business associations and institutions, including the ACCA, CIM, CIPD, CMI and more.
The curriculum will be based on a blend of research-oriented and research-led content.
Plus, you’ll be empowered to conduct your own independent research work, particularly through your dissertation where you’ll learn about the process of knowledge construction.
This degree will empower you with the skills needed to build a cutting-edge CV, become an ‘industry ready’ graduate and maximise your career opportunities.
Our Careers and Employment Service offers a range of resources and support, available online and on a one-to-one basis, for you to tap into.
BTEC HND/Foundation degree, or equivalent in a related subject.
We will usually expect a pass at BTEC HND level.
If you have taken a Foundation Degree we will be looking for performance to commendation level or 60% average
Applicants holding a relevant business and management qualification in addition to a DipHE, or Level 5 qualification such as Certificate, Diploma or NVQ will also be considered.
Full UK Fee: £11,200
Full International Fee: £11,200
Listed below are the modules that you will study on this course.
Delivered in a flexible carousel structure, the order in which you study your modules will vary depending on when you begin the course.
Please note, modules are reviewed annually and may be subject to change between academic years.
If you have any questions about this, or our carousel structure, please get in touch on +44 (0) 191 276 4874 or at DLstudentenquiries@northumbria.ac.uk
PE5000 -
Managing People (20 Credits)
This module will develop your understanding of the role of line managers in managing and developing individuals in work organisation.
It will introduce you to both theory and practice of human resource management.
This will include an overview of the legal and regulatory context of managing people including diversity, equity and equality.
You will explore and evaluate good practice in relation to, for example, talent management, recruitment and selection, performance management, reward, and appraisal.
You will consider the role of managers in leading for high performance of individuals and teams that encourages learning and creativity.
This will include strategies for creating a positive work environment that encourages participation and engagement with concern for building trust and ethical and responsible behaviours.
PE5001 -
Digital Business (20 Credits)
Throughout this module, you consider the opportunities and challenges posed by doing business in an increasingly digital domain.
This module is designed to give you an understanding of how using online channels impacts upon different parts of the organisation, and will in particular focus upon 3 core areas of business: Digital Business Strategy: You will develop an understanding of the cost structures associated with using digital channels, different business models (including omni and multiple channel business strategies), distance issues around serving global markets and implications in terms of taxation and service delivery.
Marketing: In this part of the module you will consider changing consumer media consumption and behaviour; social media and m-commerce; customer relationship building in an online context, digital brand communities and performance metrics (e.g.
web analytics).
Supply Chain Management and Information Systems: You will also develop an appreciation of the role of supply chains in serving global markets, by addressing issues such as the application of various systems to facilitate digital transactions.
In addition, you will consider how different types of information systems can support decision making.
PE5003 -
Judgement and Decision Making (20 Credits)
Little affects our lives more than the quality of the decisions we make.
In a business context, effective decision making is likely to have a significant impact on the performance of an organisation and managers are responsible for not only the quality of their own decisions, but also for influencing and managing the environment in which others make decisions.
In this module you will learn about the importance of decision-making and the type of information which can be used to support decision makers.
This will involve studying techniques which can be used to evaluate business projects, as well as considering how cognitive and behavioural influences may impact on judgement and decision making.
In addressing these issues the topics you will study will be drawn from the following themes: • The importance of the decision-making process in managing organisational performance.
• Relevant information to support decision making • Using financial models to inform business decisions.
• The implications of risk and uncertainty for decision making.
• Behavioural and cognitive influences on judgement and decision making
PE5005 -
Developing Personal Management Effectiveness (20 Credits)
This module continues to support your personal and professional development and follows on from the stage one module.
In this module you will focus specifically on developing core management skills and understanding the theories, concepts and models that underpin those skills.
You will work on further enhancing your personal effectiveness by focusing on how you work effectively with others, through collaborating, influencing, and negotiating.
You will learn about building trust and rapport with others, using coaching skills as a manager, giving and receiving feedback, having performance conversations, delegation and the importance of networks
PE5007 -
Marketing Strategy and Communications (20 Credits)
It will also address the principles of how marketing campaigns are devised using both traditional and digital channels, and introduce you to the more strategic decisions marketers are responsible for.
Across the module you will cover the following themes: •	Core Marketing Principles: Introduction of the Marketing Mix, the marketing environment, market segmentation and marketing research.
•	Marketing Strategy: Addressing major decisions surrounding branding, pricing policies and new product development / product portfolio management.
•	Campaign Management: Appreciating the plethora of activities involved in marketing campaign design, ranging from SMART objective setting through to selection of marketing channels and creative strategy.
In doing so you will consider how these activities are implemented across a variety of sectors, and also look into the increasing desire of marketers to align their activities with the sustainability agenda.
PE5004 -
Innovation (20 Credits)
The module will develop your knowledge and ability to apply a range of innovation topics.
Themes addressed will typically draw from the following: • Recognise the foundations of innovation, service and organisational improvements • Discriminate between new product, new process, and new service design/development • Understand the diffusion of innovation • Identifying enablers and barriers to innovation • The role of varied stakeholders in the innovation process (co-creation) • Particular focus on understanding and delivering creative solutions to stakeholder and organisational needs (and potential/future needs) • Consider the impact of ethical, cultural, and responsible innovation on organisation performance
PE6002 -
Project Management (20 Credits)
From both a practical and theoretical view you will learn to think about what project management means, the process of project management and how to manage projects by focusing on several professional project management aspects, such as scope management, cost management, and schedule management.
The module will develop your professional skills and confidence in managing projects using various techniques and drawing on your academic study of contemporary project management literature.
You will explore a range of approaches plus alternative views in order to challenge assumptions and identify ways to make project management more meaningful and sustainable.
You will become aware of the role of professional techniques and methodologies as an aid to managing projects.
Alongside this practical learning, you will develop a critical understanding of the importance of integrating social and ethical criteria into project planning and operation.
PE6005 -
International Finance and Responsible Financial Management (20 Credits)
This module will develop you as a critical and reflective practitioner, equipping you with the skills to think independently, analyse data, and help you to identify your own areas of interest in relation to corporate finance and practice.
On completion of this module you will have produced a reflective learning journal (in the form of a Blog or similar platform) based on your evaluation of theory to real world scenarios.
As part of that journal you will have watched and reflected on appropriate financial documentaries and movies which explore responsible financial management issues, where you are encouraged to share these with your peers on the module Virtual Learning Environment (VLE).
PE6000 -
Strategy (20 Credits)
The module will enable you to extend your knowledge of management practice, particularly in the area of strategic thinking, and to employ your intellectual and practical skills in an organisational context.
In doing so your learning will focus on themes addressing the following broad issues: • The impact on organisations of the external environment: macro-environment, industry, markets.
• The strategic choices available to organisations to improve strategic position and promote commercial success.
• The alignment of strategic directions with the corporate social responsibility and ethics framework This module is intended to develop your awareness and critical evaluation of strategic management by assessing the impact of the business environment on organisations.
The nature of practising strategy will be evaluated by reviewing the tools and activities involved when formulating strategies.
The concept of corporate social responsibility and sustainability will be central when discussing the above topics by assessing the role of stakeholders in organisations.
PE6008 -
Professional Project (40 Credits)
This module provides an opportunity for you to investigate into a work-related issue, practicing research skills through engaging in a research project.
Through studying this module you will develop a wide range of inter-personal, intellectual and practical (functional) skills.
You will increase your awareness of the workplace as a learning environment and enhance your individual effectiveness and employability, whilst also contributing to the organisation’s development and effectiveness through change.
The project will draw upon your learning across the programme: to identify a business, management or leadership issue relevant to your organisation and design and conduct an appropriate investigation into this issue.
The project will focus on a work-based issue and develop your skills in: • the diagnosis of problems • identifying project objectives • project planning • project management • development of strategies to address problems • data collection • data analysis • addressing ethical issues in research • drawing supportable conclusions from data analysis • limitations of the research process • presentation techniques You will be expected to demonstrate that appropriate ethical, commercial confidentiality and data protection issues are taken into consideration from an organisational, individual perspective by adhering to University Ethical Guidelines.
Furthermore, you will also engage in reflection on the learning derived from carrying out the project.
PE6009 -
Business Research Methods (20 Credits)
This module provides an introduction to research methods and research skills.
Themes addressed will typically draw from the following: • Conducting a critical literature review • The role of quantitative and qualitative research methods • Qualitative research methods – interviewing and observation, analysing qualitative data • Quantitative research methods – data collection and statistical analysis • Developing a research question • Ethics in research • Structuring a research proposal You will learn about qualitative and quantitative research skills including collecting and analysing data.
You will have the opportunity to consider your own research ideas within your organisation, to conduct and critique existing literature, to understand and analyse appropriate research methods, and to identify the significance of your research interests.
Furthermore you will be encouraged to consider your role as a researcher and the ethical considerations in the research process.
Through addressing these themes you will also learn the significance of research proposals as well as how to structure them.
To support you in this you will complete a research proposal based on an issue to research in your employer organisation which you will identify yourself.
This proposal will then be used to guide you when completing future research projects during your final year of study.
OCTOBER
APRIL
They can be contacted on 02843 780 292 or by emailing DLstudentenquiries@northumbria.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-business-and-management-distance-learning-dudbmi1:
Discover how this course could transform your surveying career.
Enter your details and we’ll be in touch with more information.
Manage your future.
Join our Business and Management BA (Hons) Top Up degree.
If you already have a Level 5 qualification - for example a Foundation or Associate Degree, Higher National Diploma (HND), Advanced Diploma or equivalent - in a business or management subject, this top-up course will allow you to finish your degree and gain a BA (Hons) while studying part time, online.
You'll explore key themes that will enhance your practical, business-based and management skills.
As well as this, during each module, you’ll explore the cultural and ethical contexts in which international business operates and come to understand the impact that commercial leaders, and their decisions, have on society.
Our top up degree is designed to be flexible.
You’ll be able to study whenever and wherever it suits you, while still having access to our great teaching and learning facilities.
Plus, you'll be able to pay for your fees in module-by-module instalments, spreading the cost out over the duration of your studies.
If you have a question about the course, please visit our course FAQs page .
Mode of Study 18 months Distance Learning
Our top up qualification is ideal for anyone with a  Level 5 qualification (such as an HND, NVQ, Associate or Foundation Degree) in a business or management related subject.
You'll be able to build on your previous experience, and gain a degree that will boost your educational profile and help you achieve your dream leadership role.
You’ll study six 20-credit modules, each lasting ten weeks, achieving a BA (Hons) in around 18 months.
Plus, our Business and Management course is designed to be flexible; with a recommended study time of 15 hours a week, it is ideal if you are a working professional looking to balance your learning alongside other commitments.
We’ve designed this Top Up in partnership with online experts to make sure you get the most
flexible and engaging experience possible.
We understand all our students
are different and lead busy lives.
That’s why our focus is
on self-paced, interactive
learning that will allow you the freedom to study
whenever and wherever it suits you.
The recommended study
time for the course is 15 hours a week.
You will access
all your learning materials through our eLearning
portal (elp) Blackboard Ultra.
You
will study one module at a time.
The form of your assessments will vary between
modules – they could take the form of an essay or a multiple-choice
exam – but all of them will be submitted online.
There will be no need to come to campus throughout the duration of
your course.
Each of our modules has
been carefully designed to ensure you gain the knowledge you need about that
topic in the most effective, most engaging way.
However, all of them will be
split into multiple sessions and follow a three-stage
structure: Learn, Explore and Apply.
In each teaching week,
you’ll have the chance to engage with interactive tools and media,
ranging from text-based to video/audio (“Learn”), as well
as complete online readings (“Explore”) in your own time.
There will
also be the chance to test yourself and receive formative feedback.
You’ll join a supportive,
lively online community.
Throughout the course, you will participate
in virtual discussion boards with your academics
and fellow students, sharing your thoughts, knowledge and
experience with them as you learn (“Apply”).
In
addition, you will be able
to attend live webinars on key aspects of the
module and its delivery/structure, such as assessments.
These
sessions will offer you the chance to engage with your
tutors in real time and ask any questions you have about the
course.
If you are unable to attend these scheduled sessions, they will also
be recorded so you can watch them at a time that works for
you.
Whether you
need pastoral guidance, help with assessments or advice about fees, they will
be with you at every step.
Blackboard Ultra also offers 24/7 access to a
range of advice and support services, such as Ask4Help, too.
You will also be able to
access over half a million books and e-books through our online University
Library Services.
Newcastle Business School has a global reputation for delivering first-rate business management education.
In fact, we were the first Business School in Europe to secure double accreditation in both Business and Accounting from the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB International) – a mark of excellence which places us in an elite group of business schools worldwide.
We have relationships with 16 professional business associations and institutions, including: AAT, ACCA, AIA, CILT UK, CIMA, CIM, CIPD, CIPFA, CIPS, CISI, CMI, ICAEW, IDM and ITT.
Our heritage, networks and resources mean we are equipped to help our students to become research informed, cutting edge business leaders of tomorrow.
The academics teaching on this BA (Hons) top up course are not only research engaged, but also experienced business practitioners.
Their industry knowledge will help you to make sense of the international business and management theory explored throughout the course, and apply it to real world contexts and situations.
Get to know some of the tutors you may learn from below or explore the rest of the department here .
Newcastle Business School strives to produce responsible business leaders with the expertise needed to create an inclusive and sustainable society.
Our research will permeate every aspect of this course, focusing on themes such as:
We are at the forefront of sustainable entrepreneurship, business and management.
As a signatory of the UN sponsored Principles of Responsible Management Education, we are committed to promoting these issues in our teaching, consulting and research.
You’ll explore the cultural and ethical contexts in which international businesses operate, and come to understand the impact organisational decision making has on our wider society and environment.
Digital Business
Over the duration of your BA (Hons), you’ll explore in-depth how rapid technological innovation is leading to unprecedented advancements for business, the economy and society.
Designated modules on  Digital and Data Driven Marketing will ensure that you’re ahead of the game and ready to harness its potential.
Strategic Innovation & Entrepreneurial Leadership
We’re committed to investigating strategic entrepreneurial leadership and innovation.
Throughout the course, designated study units on Strategy and Entrepreneurial Leadership will assist you along the path to becoming a more creative, effective business leader.
We have handpicked our modules to ensure they develop both your “soft skills” and practical business based competencies – helping you to stand out in the commercial market.
Upon graduation from this top up degree, you’ll have gained the skills, and qualification, needed to take the next step in your career – whether that’s into a more senior position in your current organisation, a leadership role elsewhere or enrolling on a graduate scheme or programme.
You’ll be able to put your new skills and knowledge into practice even before graduation, making a difference to your workplace performance.
We will support you to apply the theories you learn to real world situations and tailor your projects and assessments to your current role.
As a Northumbria University student, you’ll also be able to tap into our Careers and Employment Service , which offers a range of resources and support online.
Full UK Fee: £5,600
Full International Fee: £5,600

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/business-and-management-foundation-year-uusfym1:
The programme blends theory and practice to develop your
understanding of management practice and is aligned to the principles of
responsible management and sustainability goals.
A Foundation Year offers a transition into university life, bridging the gap between earlier forms of education and undergraduate degrees in Business.
This programme will introduce you to a wide range of business issues, ranging from strategy and marketing to entrepreneurship and responsible management, whilst placing these topics within the broader context of academic and career development.
The curriculum aims to enhance your employability and career
readiness as the modules blend skills and knowledge in a practical environment.
This incorporates learning data analytical
skills, acting ethically and responsibly in business and understanding how to
lead business organisations within a global context.
Upon successful completion of the Foundation Year, you will be
able to progress onto one of our Level 4 Business degree programmes
Alternatively, students may progress to one of our Accounting and Finance courses (subject to agreement):
UCAS Code N765
This programme introduces the key concepts of human resource
and marketing management and the concept of strategic and contemporary
management through the innovative module Business Environments and Functions.
It
will provide you with a broad context of knowledge and development of the
essential skills required for industry.
You
will then learn how to apply key theoretical themes in an end of year project.
The Foundation Year aims to build on your potential
management and leadership skills throughout the curriculum.
Through integrated
project and research rich assignments, you will master essential skills and
knowledge to support you throughout your academic journey and professional
career.
Once you've progressed from your foundation year to your undergraduate degree, you may encounter projects with our highly acclaimed Business Clinic.
A range of academic staff, who have a wealth of professional
and academic experience form the teaching team.
Staff are actively pushing at the frontiers of knowledge
and generating new concepts and insights.
In addition to direct academic support, you will also have
access to a range of learning support services.
These include sessions
facilitated by library staff on core academic skills such as referencing and
academic writing.
There are also ranges of online support materials, which are
available through the electronic learning portal.
These include; lecture
recordings, webcasts, pre-recorded sessions on the use of specialist software
and key academic skills.
Based in City Campus East, the Newcastle Business School
(CCE 1) comprises of purpose designed academic accommodation at the cutting
edge of design and technology.
From social spaces and classrooms to lecture
theatres and exhibition space, the facilities on offer are exceptional.
Our ground floor hosts our innovative Bloomberg Trading
Room, which allows students to train and learn how to use real time and
historical financial news and information.
Our undergraduate students
predominately use the second floor, which provides access to a large suite of
computers as well as teaching and seminar space.
On New Bridge Street, the Business Clinic is home to
consultancy projects with external organisations, which students have access to
in later degree study.
At Northumbria, we have a strong research ethos that is an
essential aspect of how you will develop as a critical, reflective and independent
thinker.
The curriculum of our modules
are research-informed, with academics drawing on their personal research
throughout lessons.
The active research themes our staff are involved in
directly influences your learning, with specialist subjects including risk,
responsibility ethics and governance, and public policy and public management.
You will become skilled in formulating questions, analysing different
interpretations and developing well-founded arguments.
At Newcastle Business School, we have excellent links with
local, national and international organisations.
Through guest lectures and
live projects, our students gain a knowledge and understanding of what it is
like to work in industry.
Employability is embedded throughout the Business and
Management Foundation Year, providing you with the skills and knowledge to be
career ready by the end of your degree.
Upon successful completion of the Foundation Year, you will
be positioned to automatically progress onto level 4 study.
Your progression
course will then build upon the skills gained throughout the yearlong
foundation course, preparing you for future employment.
GCSE Requirements: Applicants will need Maths and English Language at minimum grade 4 or C, or the equivalent.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-business-and-management-dtfbdn6:
This Newcastle based Business and Management Masters is open to those from any undergraduate background and aims to develop your leadership and management capability by enhancing your knowledge of international business management theory, whilst expanding cultural and ethical awareness.
There is a strong focus on sustainability and corporate social responsibility.
You will explore how international organisations seek competitive advantage through innovation, and evaluate sustainable strategies to promote business growth in a responsible way.
Learn with the best minds - 9th in the UK for research power.
You will benefit from learning in exceptional teaching facilities, and cover a range of management and leadership concepts that will consider positive and responsible change within organisations, the impact of change on individuals and issues of resilience and sustainability.
The course culminates in either a dissertation, or consultancy project tackling an issue faced by a real client.
Alternatively, you have the option of a Masters management enquiry project where you work with others as a team to explore a business issue.
These can be related to any business and management discipline, given the wide and varied content of this Masters programme.
This course is perfect if you're looking to further your education from one of our undergraduate Business Management Degrees .
This course aims to develop contemporary skills that will enable you to develop effective strategies to successfully build sustainable, digital enterprises.
You will have the opportunity to attend a residential where you will work collaboratively with peers, enhance your leadership and team-working abilities through increased self-awareness and knowledge of group processes.
Graduates of this course can typically expect to go into professional and graduate management positions.
You may choose to start a career within an industry that is related to the subject that you studied during your first degree or you may prefer to take on a completely new challenge.
The Business with Management Masters could also lead you to a postgraduate research degree such as an MPhil, PhD and Professional Doctorate.
See other similar courses you may be interested in: International Business Management MSc , Global Sustainable Business Management MSc
Mode of Study 1 year Full Time 3 other options available
The Institute of Leadership Scholarships
Teaching is backed up by a
well-designed support system that helps ensure a successful learning journey.
We make sure that extensive feedback, from both tutors and peers, is built into
the course.
This course also includes a residential
day for the leadership and team-building event, which is aimed at strengthening skills in team working, emotional and cultural
intelligence, self-reflection, independent learning and critical thinking
Our
assessment strategy is based on our understanding that everyone has different
needs, strengths and enthusiasms.
Assessment is based on course work and our
methods will include essays, reports, group work, presentations, and the
master’s dissertation or consultancy project.
Our academic teaching teams comprise experienced management practitioners and researchers who continue to be actively engaged in professional practice.
To maintain their professional profile, our staff are actively engaged in consultancy, enterprise, organisational consultancy and research in areas such as supporting workforces through global crises, financial crime, ageing workforce, organisational psychology, social entrepreneurship, business ethics and corporate social responsibility.
What’s more, there are plenty of opportunities to put your learning into practice.
If you decide on a master’s
consultancy project, or management enquiry rather than a dissertation, you’ll
still undertake primary and desk research.
Through your reading, reflection and
research, you’ll be expected to show a deep understanding of the issues that
are involved in the client brief.
Throughout your Business Management Masters you’ll be
an active participant in the on-going research agenda that’s at the heart of
Newcastle Business School.
With conferences and research events regularly
taking place, and with staff discussing their own research as it relates to the
topics you’ll study, there’s a strong emphasis on engaging in up-to-date
enquiry-based learning.
Newcastle Business School has three formal research and distinctive signature areas supported by a set of
dynamically inclusive and academic led research interest groups.
These include:  Strategic
Innovation and Entrepreneurial Leadership, Responsible
Business and Digital
Business.
Our research vision is organised into three formal and distinctive signature areas supported by a set of dynamically inclusive and academic led research interest groups.
To further enhance your
employability, we offer the opportunity to undertake a master’s consultancy
project, or management enquiry project as an alternative to the traditional
dissertation.
You’ll work in a small group, typically no more than five people,
or on your own in the case of the management enquiry and tackle a live project
from a host organisation under the mentoring of a member of our academic team.
The project can be an excellent vehicle for you to relate theory to practice
while developing key employability skills.
Our graduates typically go into
professional and graduate management positions and, by the end of the course,
you’ll be well-equipped to follow them.
You may choose to start a career within
an industry that’s related to the subject that you studied during your first
degree or you may prefer to take on a completely new challenge.
The Business Management Masters could also lead you to
a postgraduate research degree such as an MPhil, PhD and Professional
Doctorate.
Whatever you decide to do, you
will have the transferable skills that employers expect from a master’s
graduate from Northumbria University.
These include the ability to tackle
complex issues through conceptualisation and undertaking research, the ability
to contribute to new processes and knowledge, and the ability to formulate
balanced judgements when considering incomplete or ambiguous data.
HR9737 -
Leadership and Management Development (Core,20 Credits)
On this module, you will not only prepare for your first job after you graduate but also kickstart your commitment to life-long personal and professional learningThe module you will be supported in a self-analysis by a range of activities, including the completion of self-administered diagnostic tool-kits to demonstrate an increased self-awareness and self-understanding.
This will also involve applying theoretical frameworks and researching a range of  literature for a more in-depth understanding of self and the nature of social interactions.
The module contains activities enables you to build on your self-analysis and explore further your strengths, weaknesses and areas for development in the context of your career development plans.
You will receive guidance on how to craft professional profilesand supporting documentation to meet the needs of employer.
Your understanding of self helps you to understand the key issues and specific challenges in relation toemployability prospects in your target profession/industry/sector.
HR9738 -
Leadership for Responsible Change (Core,20 Credits)
This module critically explores managing and leading positive and responsible change within work organisations.
While the focus is on planned approaches to changes, you will also develop an appreciation of emergent change through exploration of a range of concepts, models, and theoretical frameworks.
You will compare types of change and processes to participatory change and stakeholder inclusion and engagement.
You will also consider impacts of change on individuals and issues of resilience and sustainability.
MO9704 -
Strategy and Marketing (Core,20 Credits)
Following the historical perspectives, contemporary development, emergent areas in marketing and the cross-functional business areas, this module takes a strategic view of marketing management.
The aim is to introduce marketing at an advanced strategic level, enabling you to develop theoretical understanding, in order to interpret the theoretical understanding into practical application.The purpose is to support the development of knowledge and skills required for strategic analysis of market and key stakeholders to formulate sustainable marketing strategies.
A forward-thinking approach is adopted throughout the module, as you will have the opportunity to learn and discuss the theories and concepts that have been persistently influencing the evolving marketing dynamics.
This module will cover three key areas of strategic marketing and business sustainability: 1) Understanding your market and developing marketing strategies: • The transformation in marketing dynamics: Looking backward to move forward • Marketing audit: Stakeholders as the key players in your market • Competitive factors and strategic marketing • A cross-cultural world: Understanding the contemporary buyers • Customer value and new product development • Pricing strategy 2) Implementation of strategies: Strategic marketing and sustainable competitive advantage • Stakeholder relationship management and business sustainability • Marketing mix and market segments • Strategic communication: Image, reputation and brand positioning/re-positioning • Resource-based view and sustainable competitive advantage: Outplaying competitors’ value proposition • Influencing buyers’ decision: Implications of behavioural economics • Digital marketing • International marketing 3) Emerging areas in strategic marketing •  The ongoing changes in market dynamics •  Ethical consumers and green marketing •  Responsible marketing and the UN sustainable development goals • Cross-functional implications of marketing and vice-versa
SM4022 -
Globalisation, Innovation and Sustainability (Core,20 Credits)
This 20-credit core module is delivered during the first semester of the MSc International Business Management and is aimed at you if you have prior business and management academic experience.
The aim of the module is to build on your prior academic knowledge of business management and explores the new post-recession economic and business environment.
It aims to develop your academic knowledge and professional skills in evaluating sustainable strategic options for international organisations seeking competitive advantage through innovation.
Contemporary but also traditional strategy formulation theoretical frameworks are presented within the module to develop you as critical thinkers and future practitioners.
The module is designed around five pillars: (i) developments in the new (post-global recession) economic and business environment; (ii) strategic options for international growth; (iii) innovation; (iv) leadership and change within an international/global business model; and (v) sustainability and corporate social responsibility (CSR).
SM9715 -
Innovation and Entrepreneurship (Core,20 Credits)
The module aims to provide you with knowledge and skills regarding the application of digital technologies in support of entrepreneurial activities, across the different stages of the entrepreneurial process (opportunity identification, start-up and scale-up).
The module is delivered using interactive workshops, supported by an interactive discussion board, tutor supported, but permitting interaction with fellow students.
This module will cover the main aspects of the relationship between digital technologies and entrepreneurship: •	Opportunities and challenges of digital technologies for entrepreneurs, •	The skillset of digital entrepreneurs: entrepreneurial and digital skills, •	The impact of digital technologies on the creation and recognition of entrepreneurial opportunities, •	The start-up of digital enterprises: value creation, business models and funding strategies, •	The scale-up of digital enterprises: strategies to deal with regulation, competition and barriers to growth.
The module will lead you to the development of fundamental, contemporary skills for creating and developing digital enterprises.
On completing the module, you will learn about the specific challenges of undertaking entrepreneurial activities in the context of digital markets and acquire the skills to develop effective strategies to build sustainable digital enterprises.
Jan, Apr, Jul start

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-business-and-management-with-advanced-practice-dtsbdn6:
The course includes modules that are focused on developing global management competencies, leadership and management and leadership for responsible change.
Topics during these modules include emotional intelligence, cultural awareness and the ability to work in diverse groups and teams, as well as project management and decision making.
In the second year of this course you will have an opportunity to undertake an Industry Consultancy Project creating the
opportunity for you to apply the knowledge and skills you have gained during
your first year of study, to a real-life industry issue from a range of
employers.
This authentic learning context ensures that you experience what it
feels like to work within a team on a contemporary project that has real
relevance and impact.
Working to a client's brief, with academic supervision,
you will advance your ability to apply theoretical concepts and research skills
to produce a practical recommendation to a challenging problem.*
Our graduates typically go into professional and graduate management positions and, by the end of the course, you’ll be well-equipped to follow them.
You may choose to start a career within an industry that’s related to the subject that you studied during your first degree or you may prefer to take on a completely new challenge.
The course could also lead you to a postgraduate research degree such as an MPhil, PhD and Professional Doctorate.
Whatever you decide to do, you will have the transferable skills that employers expect from a master’s graduate from Northumbria University.
*Be aware that all Advanced Practice with investigative consultancy project routes are similar to many of our 1-Year MSc with consultancy project routes, while 2-year Advanced Practice course spends more dedicated time in the Business Clinic, reflected on the total assessment input for the two 60 credit modules.
Please note, we also offer a distance learning Business and Management MSc.
We also have similar courses available: International Business Management MSc
Mode of Study 2 years Full Time with Advanced Practice 3 other options available
This course also includes a residential
day for the leadership and team-building event, which is aimed at strengthening skills in team working, emotional and cultural
intelligence, self-reflection, independent learning and critical thinking.
Throughout your course you’ll be
an active participant in the on-going research agenda that’s at the heart of
Newcastle Business School.
NBS Research
If you decide to start up your own
business, it’s good to know that the combined turnover of our graduates’
start-up companies is higher than that of any other UK university.
The course could also lead you to
a postgraduate research degree such as an MPhil, PhD and Professional
Doctorate.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-business-and-management-dtfbdj6:
This Newcastle based business and management masters is open to those from any undergraduate background and aims to develop your leadership and management capability by enhancing your knowledge of international business management theory, whilst expanding cultural and ethical awareness.
You will explore how international organisations seek competitive advantage through innovation, evaluating sustainable strategies to promote business growth in a responsible way.
Benefiting from learning in exceptional teaching facilities, you will cover a range of management and leadership concepts that will consider positive and responsible change within organisations, the impact of change on individuals and issues of resilience and sustainability.
This course also aims to develop contemporary skills that will enable you to develop effective strategies to successfully build sustainable, digital enterprises.
The course culminates in either a dissertation, or consultancy project- tackling an issue faced by a real client, or if you prefer, a master's management enquiry project - working with others as a team to explore a business issue.
These can be related to any business and management discipline, given the wide and varied content of this master's programme.
Graduates of this course can typically expect to go into professional and graduate management position.
Mode of Study 16 months Full Time 3 other options available
Start January
This course also includes a residential
day for the leadership and team-building event,
which is aimed at strengthening skills in team working, emotional and cultural
intelligence, self-reflection, independent learning and critical thinking

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-business-and-management-distance-learning-dtdbnt6:
Become a leader.
Join our online masters in Business and Management.
Whether you’re looking to advance your career, start your own company or take your first steps into the business world, this online Business Management Masters will help you to reach your goals.
You’ll cover a comprehensive range of relevant, Masters-level modules to kickstart your business career and become a more responsible, effective leader.
No previous experience in business or management is needed, and students from all backgrounds are welcomed.
You'll gain practical leadership skills and theoretical business knowledge from studying modules in our online business management course including:
These will prepare you to confront the challenges of the future and give you a commercial advantage.
During each, you’ll also explore the ethical and cultural contexts in which international businesses operate, and what it takes to become a business leader capable of making strategic yet sustainable decisions.
This Masters in Business Management online is your chance to make a positive impact on your organisation, your society and your career.
Why choose Northumbria to study Business and Management MSc?
You’ll study via distance learning with Newcastle Business School (NBS) – the first business school in Europe to secure double accreditation in both Business and Accounting from AACSB International .
This makes us part of an elite, worldwide group of business schools who have passed rigorous application and assessment criteria to achieve accreditation.
AACSB institutions are officially recognised by employers and other universities globally for meeting standards of excellence in their education.
NBS also maintains links with 16 professional business bodies, which has helped our graduates into roles such as management consultants, business managers and founders of their own companies.
These organisations include:
This online Masters in Business and Management has been designed to be flexible.
You’ll be able to study whenever and wherever it suits you, while still having access to great teaching, online research facilities and guidance from our Student Success Team.
They will be on hand to provide pastoral guidance and study support from day one through to graduation.
The quickest you can complete our online business management course is around two years, or you can take longer if you need.
This makes paying for your studies more manageable than many competitors.
If you have any other questions about the Business Management Masters course, please visit our FAQ page.
Mode of Study 2 years Part Time (Distance Learning)
Find out more about how we deliver our online courses at Northumbria University, Newcastle.
Visit Our Distance Learning Blog to Read More >
Every week we are encouraged to conduct group and individual tasks, so I never feel lonely.
Discussing my assignments with others helps me to become more creative.
Don Johnson
Distance Learning Business Student
Is an Online Degree For You?
Meet an Academic Interview - Liz Blower
Meet Your Tutors
Business School Research
Distance Learning at Northumbria
I make sure I assign time to study regularly, to work through the lectures and tasks.
However, I don’t feel like it has taken over my life and the mental stimulation I get from the course has made me much happier.
Gemma Cornwall
Distance Learning Student
Our Student Success Team
In the modern world of business, diversity is key to success.
That’s why our Business and Management MSc is open to people from all kinds of backgrounds.
You don’t have to have any qualifications in business or any managerial experience to apply.
Though, even if you do, by enrolling on the Masters you’ll explore business ideas and themes at a whole new level.
The different backgrounds of our students and our staff are what make the programme engaging and reflective of the real-world environment.
Our online business degree course is perfect for anyone looking to gain the strategic and practical skills and formal qualification needed to get ahead.
Whether you are looking to make the switch from another career, move into senior management or start your own business, it will give you the opportunity to gain a Masters degree in business management at will boost your educational profile and ensure your CV stands out in the competitive job market.
And, with the opportunity to tailor all your projects and assessments to your current role – or any future one you aspire to – you’ll be able to put your new learning into practice and make your mark even before graduation.
By the time you finish the course, you’ll be equipped with a range of key employability skills, such as critical self-awareness, business analysis, change management and Masters-level research skills.
You’ll also have the societal awareness, emotional intelligence and knowledge to transform organisations for the better – key traits that set great leaders apart.
We welcome students from all backgrounds.
However, we do offer a 20% discount to Northumbria alumni.
See our funding page for full details.
Hear about the experiences of two of our distance learners or learn more about studying online versus on campus below.
Online learning is very flexible.
It allows you to access the material through the student portal at any given time, despite the time difference.
Plus, the course is well structured...
I have found it very easy to manage my study plan.
Sonali Ambegoda
At Northumbria and the Newcastle Business School, we’re proud to offer online business management courses that are every bit as engaging and fulfilling for students as our on-campus programmes.
Through our bespoke systems, we’re able to deliver our Business and Management MSc to students who either can’t travel into the University in person or who are looking for the convenience of learning from home.
Our flexible distance learning online MSc courses allow students to save extra living and travel expenses as all programme assets are online.
Most importantly, whether you’re on campus or on the web, you’re always be a supported, full member of our student community.
We’ve designed this Masters in Business Management in partnership with online experts to make sure you get the most flexible and engaging experience possible.
We understand all our students are different and lead busy lives.
That’s why our focus is on self-paced, interactive learning that will allow you the freedom to study whenever and wherever it suits you.
The recommended study time for the course is 15 hours a week.
You will access all your learning materials through our eLearning portal, Blackboard Ultra.
You will study one module at a time, with each lasting 10 weeks (or 20 weeks for your final 40-credit Research Based Study).
The form of your assessments will vary between modules – it could be an essay or a multiple-choice exam – but all of them will be submitted online.
There will be no need to come to campus at any point during your course.
Each of our online business degree modules has been carefully designed to ensure you gain the necessary knowledge about that topic in the most effective and engaging way.
However, all of the modules will be split into multiple sessions and follow a three-stage structure: Learn, Explore and Apply.
In each teaching week, you’ll have the chance to engage with interactive tools and media, ranging from text-based to video/audio (“Learn”), as well as complete online readings (“Explore”) in your own time.
Throughout the course, you will participate in virtual discussion boards with your academics and fellow students, sharing your thoughts, knowledge and experience with them as you learn (“Apply”).
In addition, you will be able to attend live webinars on key aspects of the module and its delivery/structure, such as assessments.
These sessions will offer you the chance to engage with your tutors in real time and ask any questions you have about the course.
If you are unable to attend these scheduled sessions, they will also be recorded so you can watch them at a time that works for you.
You will also be able to access over half a million books and e-books through our online University Library Services .
Learn more about studying online at Northumbria, the experiences of two of our students and our Student Success Team.
The worth of qualifications can depend upon the reputation of the institution that awards them.
Our online Business and Management MSc comes from a renowned educational establishment, ranked in the world top 50 for sustainability (Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2021).
Newcastle Business School is one of Northumbria University’s 19 departments.
You’ll learn from academics based at this truly international school, which has a reputation for delivering quality business management courses.
In fact, we were the first business school in Europe to secure double accreditation in both Business and Accounting from the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business ( AACSB International ) – a mark of excellence which places us in an elite group of business schools worldwide.
Our heritage, networks and resources mean we are equipped to help our students to become research-informed, cutting-edge business leaders of tomorrow.
We have relationships with 16 professional business associations and institutions, including:
The academics teaching on this Business Management Masters course are not only actively engaged in research, but also experienced business practitioners.
Their industry knowledge will help you to make sense of the international business and management theory explored throughout the course and apply it to real world contexts and situations.
Discover more about our online Business and Management courses from one of our academics or meet some of the tutors you may learn from on this MSc.
Research is the lifeblood of higher education institutions.
As a university, Northumbria strives to be research-active and business-focused, which is r eflected in this department .
Newcastle Business School strives to produce forward-thinking business leaders with the expertise needed to create an inclusive and sustainable society.
Our research will permeate every aspect of this online Business Management Masters, which will be centred around themes including:
As one of our research signature areas, we are at the forefront of sustainable entrepreneurship, business and management.
We are a signatory of the UN sponsored Principles of Responsible Management Education (PRiME), meaning we are committed to promoting these issues in our teaching, consulting and research.
In modules such as Leadership for Responsible Change and Globalization, Innovation and Sustainability, you’ll explore the cultural and ethical contexts in which international businesses operate and come to understand the impact organisational decision making has on our wider society and environment.
Over the duration of your Business Management Masters, you’ll explore in-depth how rapid technological innovation is leading to unprecedented advancements for business, the economy and society.
A designated module on Digital Entrepreneurship will ensure that you’re ahead of the game and ready to harness its potential.
Decisions and Analytics
We’re committed to helping you develop your strategic decision-making skills.
Throughout the course, you’ll tackle areas such as Strategic Marketing and Business Analytics for Management – learning how analytical insight can help you build a sustainable competitive advantage, both for your business and within your own career.
You’ll also get a chance to advance your own research capabilities through a dedicated Research Methods module and a final Research Based Study on a topic of your own choosing.
Discover the more about Newcastle Business School’s Research Interest Groups here .
As a professional, business-oriented university, Northumbria puts a lot of emphasis on the employability of our graduates, and our careers support extends to both on-campus and distance learning students enrolled in our online business degrees.
Our Careers Service, Graduate Futures , provides a host of online services to help you approach opportunities and develop the skills needed to be competitive in today’s jobs market .
This includes providing one-to-one advice to focus your career plans, practice interviews/assessments and more.
Our Graduate and Student Enterprise service is also available to those looking to start their own venture.
Supporting students and graduates to explore start-up ideas from concept to creation, this is one of the many reasons why Northumbria University has been in the top 3 universities in the UK for graduate start-ups based on estimated turnover for the past 5 years.
(HEBCIS 2018/19).
In addition, all our Business and Management courses are designed to be career-boosting in the most practical sense.
We have tailored our modules to develop your leadership competencies and your wider professional and personal skills, so you can become a more effective business practitioner.
Even before graduation, you’ll be able to put your new skills and knowledge into practice and make a difference to your career.
We will support you to apply the theories you learn to real world situations and tailor your projects and assessments, including your final Masters level thesis, to your current role.
You'll graduate with the same Masters degree in Business Management certificate as you would if you had studied on campus.
You'll also have the skills and formal qualification needed to take the next step in your career – whether that’s into senior management in your current organisation, a leadership role elsewhere or starting your own business.
And with the average postgraduate annual salary rated at £42,000, investing in a Masters is definitely a worthwhile investment (Department for Education analysis of the Labour Force Survey, Graduate Labour Market Statistics 2019).
Full International Fee:
                                £11,000
PE7020 -
Business Analytics for Management (20 Credits)
This module prepares you to be highly employable by developing key “hard” skills which have been identified by recent research on graduate employability as those necessary for postgraduate students seeking work.
In this module you will develop the practical skills and techniques required by businesses to help them in the implementation of business intelligence and business analytics solutions.
You will be introduced to some business management processes, tools and methodologies, e.g.
performance dashboards and SAS.
Such skills will be of great value to you in the workplace and will enhance your employability through developing practice-based skills for the contemporary manager, thus emphasising the programme philosophy of “learning by doing”.
A prominent theme throughout this module is to give you experience in a wide range of industry standard tools and technologies.
In addition to being able to provide clear, critical, analysis of data, you will also be able to consider the business implementation and communication skills required.
This module emphasises the development of practical skills and techniques required by businesses to help them in decision making operations.
You will develop skills in problem solving, activity modelling, scorecard development and data modelling.
There will be a strong emphasis involving the use of tools such as Soft Systems Methodology (SSM), Balanced Scorecard, Strategy Maps and MS Excel.
In addition to being able to devise quantitative measures and calculations, you will also be able to provide clear, critical, informative management interpretations based on the results obtained.
PE7023 -
Research Based Study (40 Credits)
In this module you will design and implement a substantive research-based investigation in order to address a self-selected, authentic work based or professional/practice related problem within your discipline area.
This student-led, independent study allows you to synthesize and apply previous learning and experience, and build upon existing academic, research and personal skills.
You will learn how to effectively engage with the research process in an applied context.
Aspects will include: * Application of appropriate research questions.
* Critical evaluation of existing literature and other sources to develop conceptual and theoretical frameworks for analysis.
* Application of research theory and methods in implementing a piece of research in practice, including critical awareness of research theory, approaches, methods and ethics.
* Application of frameworks to provide an integrated critical analysis of theory and data to identify evidence-based conclusions and recommendations where appropriate.
* Project management.
You will develop your skills as autonomous, reflective learners in the process of completing the research-based study.
An in-depth and complex understanding of the chosen area of your professional discipline, and the skills developed in this module, will be demonstrated in a scholarly, academically rigorous research-based study.
The advanced knowledge gained through original data collection and analysis, and theoretically informed critical evaluation, will have the potential to contribute to the relevant disciplinary community of practice.
PE7021 -
Globalization, Innovation and Sustainability (20 Credits)
This module supports your management development and enhancement of strategic decision-making skills.
Specifically, the aim of the module is to advance your prior academic or professional knowledge base in evaluating and implementing suitable strategies which support organisational development through the lenses of innovation and sustainability.
Organisations in today’s highly dynamic and competitive environment capitalise on competitive advantage opportunities by exploring sustainable strategic options which support their international reach.
Contemporary but also traditional theoretical frameworks are presented within the module to develop you as critical thinkers and future managers.
The module is designed around three thematic pillars: (i) strategic options in the new (post-Great Recession) economic and business environment; (iii) innovation; and (iii) sustainability.
The learning material used in the module is based on contemporary and seminal theories of strategic management, disruptive innovation and sustainability.
PE7022 -
Research Methods (20 Credits)
In this module you will engage with preparatory materials that will enable you to design a substantive research-based investigation in your discipline area.
Aspects will include: * Engagement with the purpose and process of research.
* Searching for, managing and evaluating potential sources for inclusion in a literature review.
* Identification and refining of appropriate research questions, leading to the development of a research question and creation of a research study proposal.
* Critical appreciation of research theory, approaches, methods and ethics, to inform effective research design.
* Development of knowledge and skills in quantitative and qualitative research methods.
* Practical application of ethics in research.
You will develop your skills as autonomous, reflective learners in support of the process of completing the dissertation.
PE7038 -
Leadership for Responsible Change (20 Credits)
PE7040 -
Strategic Marketing (20 Credits)
Strategic Marketing forms a core activity for many business leaders and managers.
As such the aim of this module is to introduce marketing at an advanced strategic level, enabling you to develop theoretical understanding and subsequent practical application.
Indeed, the purpose is to support the development of knowledge and skills required for strategic analysis of markets and key stakeholders to formulate sustainable marketing strategies for an organisation.
A range of on-line learning materials and activities will be used to address three key areas of strategic marketing and business sustainability: 1) Understanding your market and developing marketing strategies: • The transformation in marketing dynamics: Looking backward to move forward • Marketing audit: Stakeholders as the key players in your market • Competitive factors and strategic marketing • A cross-cultural world: Understanding the contemporary buyers • Customer value and new product development • Pricing strategy 2) Implementation of strategies: Strategic marketing and sustainable competitive advantage • Stakeholder relationship management and business sustainability • Marketing mix and market segments • Strategic communication: Image, reputation and brand positioning/re-positioning • Resource-based view and sustainable competitive advantage: Outplaying competitors’ value proposition • Influencing buyers’ decision: Implications of behavioural economics • Digital marketing • International marketing 3) Emerging areas in strategic marketing •  The ongoing changes in market dynamics •  Ethical consumers and green marketing •  Responsible marketing and the UN sustainable development goals • Cross-functional implications of marketing and vice-versa
PE7039 -
Digital Entrepreneurship (20 Credits)
Recognising you are studying at a distance, this module is delivered using online learning resources and interactive workshops, supported by an interactive discussion board permitting interaction with your fellow students.
PE7019 -
Analysing Self for Strategic Career Development (20 Credits)
This module enhances your employability prospects through enabling you to develop, and hone, the skills, capabilities and attributes identified as important for management and leadership effectiveness in the profession of your choice.
In the first part of the module you will engage in activities, including the completion of self-administered tool-kits, to explore and analyse your strengths and weaknesses in relation to leadership, management, team-work and communication skills.
The second part of the module contains activities which enable you to build on your self-analysis from the first part of the module, and explore further your strengths, weaknesses and areas for further development in the context of your career development plans.
You will receive guidance on how to craft professional, postgraduate CVs, LinkedIn profiles, and supporting documentation to meet the needs of employers.
Detailed directed reading, diagnostics and interactive exercises will be undertaken which are contextualised to the country of study and/or intended employment, representing your specific needs.
Thus, the second part of the module is designed to use your understanding of self to help you understand the key issues and specific challenges that you face, with your skills profile, in relation to your employability prospects in your target profession/industry/sector.
This will also include the development of knowledge into the global graduate labour market (including routes such as self-employment and developing your career with an existing employer), drawing upon local, national and international exemplars.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-business-and-marketing-extended-degree-uusxmr2mrn:
With our BA (Hons) Business and Marketing course, you’ll combine broader learning of business with specialist studies in marketing.
During the course, you’ll gain a comprehensive understanding of marketing research and planning, with further module options digging down into areas including retail marketing,relationship marketing, content marketing, buyer behaviour and customer experience.
Thanks to the 50-50 split between marketing and wider business studies, you’ll be well-placed to choose a career path in either discipline following your graduation – from specialist marketer to broader business roles.
You will be encouraged to undertake a work placement, study abroad or combine both.
In the final year, you’ll have the option to carry out a
group consultancy project in the Faculty Business Clinic, a management enquiry
project or a dissertation depending on whether you completed a placement.
The management enquiry project will allow for working individually to investigate a real business issue, and gaining critical practical experience.
The course content has been developed in partnership with industry bodies the Data and Marketing Association (DMA) and the
Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM), providing professional-level knowledge that gives you exemptions from taking some of their official qualifications.
It’s also covered by the prestigious Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) accreditation for Newcastle Business School.
See other similar courses you may be interested in: Marketing BA (Hons) , BSc Business and Analytics , Business and Human Resource Management BA
UCAS Code Z030
Northumbria University has joined forces with the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) to give students the opportunity to gain professional qualifications through CIM Graduate Gateway.
The CIM is the leading professional body for marketers worldwide and exists to develop the marketing profession, maintain professional standards and improve the skills of marketing practitioners.
CIM qualifications are highly sought after by employers, and map alongside our own degrees which ensures we are equipping students with the best opportunities for a successful marketing career.
Newcastle Business School has a global reputation for delivering some of the UK’s best business management education.
Our staff come from a range of backgrounds and specialisms include consumer decision-making, evaluations of sports events and digital marketing.
What’s more, the School’s teaching team is always looking to explore new fields of knowledge and generate ground-breaking concepts and insights.
Within the Marketing department, you’ll also benefit from the work of our internal Behaviour, Brand and Digital Insights research group.
Its aim is to create a collaborative research culture and deliver impactful research, helping to keep your studies at the forefront of academic thinking.
At Northumbria we know how important it is that you are taught by staff who understand the business world.
That is why all of our staff have industry experience and connections to help your learning.
Dr Kate Harland
Dr Danielle Barbe
Dr Shilpa Iyanna
At Newcastle Business School you’ll experience a first-class education in a world-class environment.
From our social spaces and hub areas to lecture theatres and exhibition spaces, our facilities are exceptional.
For example, the 24/7 university library achieves some of the highest levels of student satisfaction in the UK and has held the Cabinet Office accreditation for Customer Service Excellence since 2010.
We’re also committed to helping you make the most of Technology Enhanced Learning (TEL) by embedding it throughout the course.
Tools such as the ‘Blackboard’ eLearning Portal and electronic reading lists are there to help you efficiently and thoroughly prepare for seminars and independent research.
Lecture capture software means you can revise previously lectured material online in your time, as well as at your speed.
There are plenty of opportunities to put your learning into practice through volunteering, internships and placements.
This includes the Business Clinic that enables you to participate in a ‘consultancy firm’ to provide advice for our region’s businesses – an initiative that’s seen our students work with almost 300 client organisations, providing free consultancy worth an estimated £1.2 million.
This introduces you to key research skills including information literacy, sampling, statistical reporting and surveying through the first year Marketing Consultancy and Study Skills modules, before developing your knowledge more deeply in the second year Business Research and Analysis module.
Specific research areas include consumer behaviour, digital marketing and brand management.
We’ve also introduced two dedicated modules focusing on career-development skills: Marketing Study and Consultancy Skills, and Preparing for Professional Practice.
There’s also the option of a work placement year, while our Marketing Internship Programme is on hand to help you gain hands-on marketing experience.
Once you complete your studies, you’ll be ready to pursue career paths across a wide range of sectors – with a particular edge in roles such as a marketing executive or a branding strategist thanks to your specialist learning.
Should you wish to push your knowledge even further, the course also prepares you for postgraduate study – for example, on our MSc in Digital Marketing.
Or, if your inner entrepreneur comes calling, you can take inspiration from our previous students’ outstanding track record, with the combined turnover of Northumbria graduate startups higher than any other UK university.
Whatever you decide to do, you’ll have strong employability as a Northumbria graduate as every module of Northumbria Business School courses reinforces what you need to succeed.
This includes the transferable skills that really matter to employers such as critical reflection and self-learning, collaboration and curiosity, and the ability to solve problems in sustainable and ethical ways.
MK9412 -
Marketing Study and Consultancy Skills (Core,20 Credits)
As part of your marketing education, it is vital you develop competencies such as commercial awareness, analytical skills, interpersonal skills, creative thinking, problem solving, communication and time management.
This module will prepare you for your degree and the graduate marketplace by equipping you with the skills required to tackle a wide range of marketing problems.
You will work on live business projects and collaborate in teams to develop solutions to business problems.
This module will complement ‘Introduction to Marketing’, where you will be focused on learning the core principles of the marketing subject.
In this module you will apply these to business cases and also learn research and communication skills that will set you up to tackle future marketing modules.
MK9526 -
Market Research and Planning (Core,20 Credits)
The aim of this module is for you to develop a comprehensive understanding of the roles of ‘Marketing Planning’ and ‘Marketing Research’ in a successful organisation.
Having already developed basic skills in research, this module will provide you with an understanding of how marketing planning and marketing research can assist managers, entrepreneurs and other stakeholders in their relentless pursuit of gaining competitive advantage.
First, the basics of marketing research are presented, enabling you to develop skills in applied qualitative and quantitative research.
You will then learn the fundamentals of marketing planning, underpinned by the core components of the marketing mix and analysis frameworks and will then learn how to use marketing research in order to underpin marketing planning.
Upon completion of the module, you will be able to: •	Describe and explain the key theoretical terms and concepts of marketing research.
You will furthermore receive first-hand experience of qualitative and quantitative marketing research in the interest of developing qualitative and quantitative marketing research skills.
•	Describe and explain the key theoretical terms and concepts of marketing planning.
In addition, you will have the appropriate skills to develop research-driven marketing plans.
•	Make use of qualitative and quantitative research findings in the development of evidence-driven marketing strategy and marketing plans.
MK9530 -
Dynamics of Marketing in Sport, Music and Fashion (Optional,20 Credits)
This module helps you gain an in-depth and up-to-date understanding of current marketing trends and marketing practice in sport/music/fashion industry.
This module will develop your marketing and management skills including communication, problem solving, data analysis, critical, logical and reasoned thinking as well as experience with these skills and teamwork etc.
The main contents of the module will cover the following topics: •	An understanding of the characteristics unique to each industry •	Main issues and challenges in sport/music/fashion industry; •	Emerging marketing trends in sport/music/fashion marketing; •	An understanding the unique features of sport/music/fashion consumers and fans; Marketing practices of sport/music/fashion products; 1.
Products and branding 2.
Price 3.
Place 4.
Promotion Marketing practices through sport/music/fashion events; 1.
Event marketing 2.
Sponsorship The module will also address the following themes: •	Best marketing practice and successful campaigns •	Developing an integrated marketing plan (including marketing metrics) in sport/music/fashion.
•	Ethical issues in sport/music/fashion marketing (e.g.
copyrights, intellectual property rights, ambush marketing, false advertising etc.) •	Career directions and related jobs
MK9531 -
Communications and Content Marketing (Optional,20 Credits)
This module involves you developing a foundational knowledge of key marketing communication methods, content marketing and learning to appreciate the basics of the ‘conversation’ that surrounds brands and campaigns on various platforms (including online).
The taught component of the module will include the following broad topics but will naturally evolve to include the most current developments in this fast-changing field: Marcomms methods (i.e.
- the Marketing Communications Mix).
Different channels to engage customers (offline / online).
The digital platforms and channels as an increasingly important aspect of modern marketing.
The borderless nature of the modern marketing environment - the audience can be, and often is, global.
Messages, big ideas and stories - developing a basic understanding of what engages audiences (i.e.
- the ‘content’ of marketing campaigns).
The ‘word on the street’ - considering the fundamental elements of the ‘buzz’, hype, or conversation around a brand or company’s marketing campaign.
Measurement behind the methods – the basics of tracking and measuring the effectiveness of marketing communications on various platforms.
Ethical limits of marketing communications – appreciating that some messages are inappropriate or unfair for some audiences.
MK9626 -
Responsible Marketing Strategy (Core,20 Credits)
The module provides students with a comprehensive understanding of concepts, theories and techniques in the context of strategic marketing, responsible marketing and sustainability.
The intension is to support the development of knowledge and skills required to undertake strategic analysis of markets and organisations and formulate a competitive, responsible marketing strategy.
A contemporary approach to marketing is adopted throughout the module, as you will have the opportunity to learn and discuss the concepts that have changed the way we perceive marketing today.
In doing so you will examine, both theoretically and practically, a number of areas associated with responsible marketing strategies, such as: Theme 1 Contemporary Strategic Marketing •	Marketing Audit and key trends that impact on marketing and the society •	Contemporary Marketing Research and Planning •	New product development and Disruptive Innovation •	Service-Dominant Logic and Value co-creation/Co-destruction •	Developing and implementing appropriate marketing strategies and metrics Theme 2 Responsible Marketing •	Ethics and Sustainability in a marketing context •	Responsible Marketing strategies and Sustainable Development Goals •	Sustainable Consumer Behaviour and Ethical Consumerism •	Sustainability, Ethics and New Media •	The Future of Sustainability and Responsible Marketing On completing the module, you will be able to critically evaluate the usefulness of marketing knowledge in the context of responsible business and sustainable consumer behaviour and apply theory to develop appropriate marketing strategies.
You will also develop the skills required for effective Integration of learning from marketing and other business areas into a plan for solving business problems.
MK9627 -
Buyer Behaviour and Integrated Marketing Communications (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will provide you with a greater understanding and appreciation for how marketers research and target prospective customers.
This module offers new insights into unearthing consumer preferences and developing insightful consumer personas.
Furthermore, it provides knowledge and guidance on how this information can be used and transformed into implementing a successful marketing campaign.
The module is equally divided into two core sections.
First, weeks 1-6 explore the theory and practice of ‘Buyer Behaviour’ (or consumer psychology).
From here, weeks 7-12 focus on developing an ‘Integrated Marketing Communications’ (IMC) campaign.
In weeks 1-6 you will be introduced to the theory of buyer behaviour and identify the differences between consumer buyer behaviour and organisational buyer behaviour.
Next you will learn about the different types of decisions that face consumers as well as learning and applying a consumer decision making framework.
You will finish by learning about the various influences that face consumers when making planned decisions.
In weeks 7-12 you will be introduced to integrated marketing communications.
You will apply a marketing communication planning framework to the development of a marketing campaign which will be based upon the insights created through buyer behaviour analysis.
This will involve the critical marketing activities of campaign goal setting, positioning and specific campaign decisions such as media channels and campaign messaging.
MK9628 -
Brand Management (Optional,20 Credits)
An organisation’s brand is a major factor in how they are perceived by their current customers, potential customers, employees, media groups and the wider public.
Brands act as a means of differentiating from competitors and maintaining a positive corporate image.
This module will provide you with the opportunity to explore the branding strategies adopted by organisations and appreciate the true value of a strong, successful brand.
Lectures and seminars provided both will include: •	Analysing elements of a Brand: attributes, core values, personality/character •	Brand Identity and Image; Key stakeholders to consider in relation to a brand – staff and customers; Employee/Employer branding •	Brand communities and brand co-creation •	Brand and (& in) the Brain: Semiotics & Neuromarketing aspects of branding •	Positioning and PR, and image/impression management, including re-branding and turnaround situations •	Non-commercial and ethical brands.
•	Brand metrics, including especially brand equity and value (some financial aspects included here) •	Brand portfolio management (co-brands & sub-brands)
MK9630 -
B2B Marketing and Sales Management (Optional,20 Credits)
This module provides the knowledge and skills necessary for you to understand, and pursue a career in, Business to Business Marketing and/or Sales Management.
Learning will be via lectures, seminars and independent study.
Within the module, you will cover these main topics: •	The role, extent and importance of B2B Marketing •	Organisational Decision Making •	Marketing mix in B2B Marketing; products, value and pricing, comms (including trade shows) •	Interorganisational relationships & CRM •	Appointing and managing channel intermediaries •	Business services •	Sales and the Organisation / Sales Strategies / the Sales-Marketing interface •	Market Data, Customer Insight, Objectives and Metrics •	Prospecting, Negotiation & Sales-related Events •	New Business Sales vs Key Account Management •	Analysis and Planning in B2B Markets •	Strategy and implementation in B2B Markets During the module you will fine-tune your existing Marketing skills and gain a robust understanding of the Sales function.
You will critically analyse existing theory and practices, contribute your own ideas, and explore ways to apply this academic knowledge to an authentic commercial context.
As a result, on embarking upon your career, you should be a skilled, informed practitioner able to deliver demonstrable value to your business and its stakeholders, and to differentiate yourself positively within a competitive employment market.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/business-and-marketing-ba-hons-uusbmr2mrn:
UCAS Code N660
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Business with Marketing Management.
"There are various advised books for purchase throughout the duration of this course, and the cost is approximately £250.
Where possible, key texts are provided as online resources, and as hard copies in the library.
This course is accredited by the Institute of Data & Marketing, students are eligible to complete their Certificate in Digital Marketing (CertDM).
This is optional but could incur the following costs: Examination fee of £100 plus VAT.
This course is certified by the Chartered Institute of Marketing, students are eligible to complete the Certificate in Professional Marketing.
This is optional but could incur the following costs: CIM membership, £65: assessment £140."

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-business-and-supply-chain-management-extended-degree-uusxmt1:
The
Business and Supply Chain Management BA (Hons) degree has been designed to give
you the ideal balance between a broad understanding of business and a more
focused emphasis on operations and supply chain management.
You will undertake a
balanced 50/50 split between business management content (where you explore
business functions such as finance, marketing, and human resources) and operations and supply chain management topics such as International Operations Management, Applied Logistics and
Supply Chain Management, Global Logistics and Inventory Management, Strategic and
Sustainable Supply Chain Management, and Supply Chain Innovation.
The degree will start with a heavy focus on broad business content, becoming
gradually more supply chain management focused as you move towards final year.
Accredited Course: The University have Professional, Statutory and Regulatory Body (PSRB) accreditation from the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply (CIPS) and is also covered by the prestigious Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) accreditation for Newcastle Business School.
The Business and Supply Chain Management course has been designed to prepare you for graduate employment in operations and supply chain management or broader business and is a CILT (UK) Accredited Degree.
This degree is
accredited by the Chartered Institute of Procurement & Supply (CIPS - UK).
Before your final year of studies, you will be encouraged to undertake a work placement, study abroad
or combine both.
In the final year, you’ll have the option to carry out a group consultancy project in the Business Clinic, a management
enquiry
project or a dissertation depending on whether you completed a
placement.
The management enquiry project will allow
for working individually to investigate a real business issue, and
gaining critical practical experience.
If you're enthusiastic about supply chain management and seeking a challenging career path after your studies, consider exploring Northumbria University's Business and Supply Chain Management program.
This program is bolstered by the NOVUS Programme, supported by CILT, and helps students achieve their career goals.
NOVUS is a robust coalition of prominent companies spanning various industries.
These reputable corporations recognise the urgent need to revolutionise how the supply chain field identifies, develops, and empowers its future trailblazers.
Student Rated: Over 90% of students studying Business and Supply Chain Management at Northumbria believed their course positively challenged them to achieve their best work (NSS, 2025).
Research  Powerhouse: Business and Management is ranked 9th in the UK for research power (REF, 2021).
Industry Bodies: The course content has been developed in partnership with industry bodies the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply (CIPS) and the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT).
UCAS Code Z031
The curriculum is based primarily on key
aspects of operations and supply chain management studies; this ranges
from specific subjects such as Operations Management, Inventory Management,
Applied Logistics, Supply Chain Innovation, Strategic and Sustainable Supply Chain Management and Global Supply
Network Management to more general business and management
input such as financial decision making, business economy and society, digital
business, project management, and business analysis, which will provide you
with the necessary awareness and knowledge of general business.
You
will begin your studies with an introduction to operations and supply chain
management principles alongside a significant focus on building your wider
business awareness and skills across subjects such as financial decision making
and business analysis.
As you progress through the degree, the course content
will provide a more focused operations and supply chain management curriculum, interjected
by modules in associated areas such as Business Research and Analysis Digital
Business, and Human Resource Management.
Your final year is then heavily
operations and supply chain management focused, complemented by the space to
develop your project management skills.
There are a wide variety of assessments used across each
year of the programme, including written assignments, reports, examinations,
individual, and group presentations.
In your final year, you will undertake a
substantial piece of research work, either in the form of an individual
dissertation, management enquiry or a group consultancy project.
While
assessments are usually individual work, there are various modules across the
programme which include group work and thereby give you opportunity to develop
skills in teamwork, negotiation, and leadership.
For assignments and portfolio work, you will be supported
in your seminars, where tutors will share marking criteria prior to the
assignment being handed in.
This means that you will have a clear guidance on
the expectations of the marker.
Tutors will also provide feedback which will
give clear guidance on areas of strength and weakness.
Newcastle Business School has a global
reputation for delivering some of the UK’s best business education.
We’re part of an elite group of business schools worldwide with double
accreditation from the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business
(AACSB) in business and accounting.
Modules
will be delivered by a team of academic staff who possess a combination of
academic qualifications and relevant professional practice.
Our staff are
engaged in various research, consultancy, and practice-based activities, which
will impact your learning and be embedded into the teaching.
Key
areas of research from the teaching staff include operations improvement, efficiency and optimisation, supply chain risk
management, sustainability and resilience, and operations and supply chain innovation.
Academic
staff will support you through taught sessions, as well as planning activities
for you to engage with during independent study time.
Our academics will be
available for further support outside of formal scheduled teaching, such as
through student-drop-in sessions.
You will also be allocated a Personal Tutor,
who has responsibility for your personal wellbeing.
You will have access to a range of university learning
support services.
These consist of sessions conducted by library staff on core
academic skills such as referencing and academic writing.
If you are an
international student, there are specialist academic skills sessions built into
your studies, which will help with the academic language in your modules of
study.
In addition, you will also have access to the central
Student Support and Wellbeing service, who offer a range of services including
support with welfare and health, finances, international student support,
disability and dyslexia, counselling and mental health, and chaplaincy and
faith advice.
Dr Marcelo Sa
Alireza Shokri
Dr.Adrian Small
Dr Mahdi Noorizadegan
At
Newcastle Business School you’ll experience a first-class education in a
world-class environment.
From our social spaces and hub areas to lecture
theatres and exhibition spaces, our facilities are exceptional.
We’re
also committed to helping you make the most of Technology Enhanced Learning
(TEL) by embedding it throughout the course.
Tools such as the ‘Blackboard’
eLearning Portal and electronic reading lists are there to help you efficiently
and thoroughly prepare for seminars and independent research.
Lecture capture
software means you can revise previously lectured material online in your time,
as well as at your speed.
What’s
more, there are plenty of opportunities to put your learning into practice
through volunteering, internships, and placements.
This includes the Business
Clinic that provides student consultancy facilities to work with our clients in
response to their business problem.
Our clients are drawn from a range of
organisations including multinationals, SMEs, not-for-profit charities, and
social enterprises from across the region and nationally.
Northumbria is leading the debate and responding to tomorrow’s
challenges through our ground-breaking research.
We use our academic research
to enrich our teaching, with the Business and Supply Chain course focusing on
research-tutored and enquiry-based learning.
Your technical ability to research is established
over your time of study with you developing a strong underpinning in statistics
across the first and second years of the degree alongside an understanding of
qualitative research to help prepare you for a 40-credit
dissertation/management enquiry or consultancy project in the final year.
The
alternative consultancy project will enable you to experience “real-world”
learning through research and collaboration with a specific business via the Faculty
Business Clinic.
Our Operations and Supply Chain Competitiveness (GLOPSCO)
Research Interest group (RIG) will give you opportunity to be part of the
broader research and knowledge exchange community to learn more about the
discipline outside your teaching and learning curriculum.
Engagement to this platform enables you
developing your research-rich learning too.
Invitations to this will be
provided via the Subject Group Head for Operations and Supply Chain Management
in the MOS department , your
Programme Leader or any of the specialist teaching team on your programme.
Making
your career happen is at the heart of all our
Business courses – with every module designed to reinforce the
transferable skills you’ll need in the workplace.
We
have introduced two dedicated modules focusing on
career-development skills: Supply Chain and Operations Study and
Consultancy Skills, where you can experience live operations or supply
chain management related projects; and Preparing for Professional Practice where
you will practice and develop skills necessary to obtain a placement or
graduate employment in a supportive environment.
Our
programme is also supported by NOVUS, in  partnership with CILT who recognise the need
to reinvent the way in which the supply chain profession finds and prepares its
future leaders.
NOVUS is a long-term, strategic answer to the serious skills
gaps and shortfall of graduate talent that is becoming increasingly evident in
the supply chain and operations profession today.
Here at Northumbria, our
researchers and support services are determined to help you develop and enhance
your skills, to ensure our graduates are equipped to excel in the industry.
Beyond
the classroom, you’ll have opportunities to develop your career through
practical experience and wider learning.
In your second year, you
can spend a semester studying abroad, or take an extra
year before your final year studying elsewhere in the
EU, or further afield such as the USA, Australia or China.
There’s
also the option of a work placement year, where our Internship Programmes are
on hand to help you gain hands-on Supply Chain Management
experience.
And there’s our Business Clinic, offering you the chance to work
with real clients to help solve their business challenges.
If
you decide not to take a year/semester out on a work placement or study abroad,
there are still plenty of opportunities available.
Our extensive network of
operations, logistics and supply chain management professionals (including many
past graduates of the course) offer you extra opportunities to attend events
and meet the associated professional bodies, allowing you to sculpt a truly
distinctive CV to use in the graduate marketplace.
This network involves
working with the key professional bodies, Chartered Institute of Logistics and
Transport (CILT) and Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply (CIPS).
After
graduating, you may wish to embark on Postgraduate study.
And there are a wide range of
potential future career areas including Supply Chain or Process analyst,
Scheduler, Material Planner, Purchasing Agent, Quality Improvement Consultant,
Operations Manager or Analyst, and many more.
Your progression into such
employment after graduation is supported by our careers
service , as well as the skills and knowledge developed
throughout the programme.
MO9411 -
Supply Chain and Operations Study and Consultancy Skills (Core,20 Credits)
This module aims to prepare you to become students for business as well as of business.
You will be expected to put your learning into practice by working on projects related to your programme area of Business and Supply Chain Management.
It is an active experiential module helping you to develop the necessary skills, qualities and behaviours to succeed both at University and in your future career.
As part of your operations, logistics and supply chain management learning, it is vital you develop industry-relevant competencies such as sustainability awareness, responsible business, ethics, analytical and interpersonal skills, creative thinking, communication, time and project management.
This module provides the groundwork for your wider undergraduate degree and the graduate marketplace by equipping you with a range of skills and proficiencies, essential for you to succeed in industry and beyond.
Here, you will also learn of our industry-specific placement scheme, NOVUS, backed by the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport.
This practical module will provide you with an introduction to experiential learning.
Using a ‘hands-on’ approach, you will work with live business projects and collaborate in teams to develop sustainable solutions to business problems.
A core part of this experiential learning method is the process of reflection.
Reflection enables you to appreciate your own skills development, how your skills could potentially complement other team members’ skills, and helps you systematically identify areas for future development, unique to you.
You will apply these principles to business cases and also learn research and communication skills that will enhance your capabilities to study future modules on your degree.
MO9412 -
Introduction to the Marketing and Supply Chain Management Interface (Core,20 Credits)
The module aims to provide you with the knowledge and skills of applying various marketing and supply chain management (SCM) knowledge at the interface of these two subject disciplines to support business decision making.
The module is delivered to you using weekly webinar-based lectures and class-based seminars, principally concentrating on developing your subject knowledge and its related understanding.
This module will cover twelve topics: Marketing and SCM interface at the strategic level.
Process technology and improvement strategy.
Purchasing and supply strategy.
Understanding Supply Chain Management, relationships and dynamics.
Supply chain risk management and resilience.
E-commerce, e-procurement and omnichannel fulfilment.
Understanding marketing, the core marketing mix framework and the new marketplace.
Branding and logistics interface.
Creating customer value: new product development and pricing.
The global customer: understanding how customer behave and decision-making influences.
Integrated marketing communications (IMC): development of digital marketing and channels.
Creating customer satisfaction.
You will become aware of the role of the two business areas of marketing and supply chain management and how they interface and integrate with each other.
Furthermore, you will gain an understanding and development of various business problem-solving models related to these areas.
On completing the module, you will be able to select and apply the appropriate knowledge to support business problem-solving in a variety of situations where marketing and supply chain interact.
You will have developed relevant skills to support the theoretical material introduced throughout the module.
MO9529 -
International Operations Management (Core,20 Credits)
Your learning on this module captures global contemporary operations and supply chain challenges and issues, its contribution to organisational strategies and the development of competency in related tools.
You will develop as an active learner and your learning on this module is three-fold: 1.
This module provides you with an underpinning knowledge about international operations management, your learning underpinned by investigating the ongoing developments in both related theory and practice set in the global context.
You will learn strategic theories and gain knowledge associated with common operations and supply chain management themes during interactive weekly lectures and seminars.
The key themes include: •	Introduction to operations management •	Process, product and service design •	Global supply chain management •	Operations planning •	Global operations sustainability •	Quality management •	Resource and capacity planning •	Global procurement management •	Lean management •	Global location management •	Global logistics management •	Global supply chain risk management 2.
This module will seek to develop your practical problem solving skills related to the global operations and supply chain context by analysing contemporary issues through interactive case study analysis that are central to weekly seminars.
You will have opportunity to analyse cases relevant to each theoretical theme above and be able discuss these with your fellow learners with facilitation by your seminar tutor.
This research-informed module also aims at developing your research skills.
You will have opportunity to learn more about critical reading and writing of the peer reviewed academic journal articles that enable you to develop the necessary and significant skills required to execute your research–intensive assessment tasks in this module and other modules as you progress through your programme.
MO9530 -
Global Logistics and Inventory Management (Core,20 Credits)
The module aims to provide you with an understanding of the key elements of logistics and inventory management on a global scale.
You will learn about how different forms of transport modals combine and operate to move goods and people around the world and how goods can effectively and efficiently be ordered, stored, despatched and delivered.
This module will offer you a border understanding and an appreciation of the institutional challenges, tensions and future opportunities for growth within supply and distribution systems.
Within in this module, you will cover ten main topics: Introduction to inventory/warehouse design Warehouse operations, material handling, and Japanese shop floor management Facility location and layout Hierarchical/ aggregate planning Forecasting and inventory control MRP and capacity management Multimodal and intermodal transportation Containers, inventory and transport Revere logistics and CLSM CSR and Responsible supply chain On completing the module, you will have developed an appreciation of global logistics and inventory management challenges and their relation to the supply chain.
You will also be able to apply this knowledge to business and management contexts and compare and contrast the warehouse functions and the intermodal choices.
MO9634 -
Supply Chain Innovation (Core,20 Credits)
The module aims to help you with using knowledge of business and management to understand the management of innovations in supply chains.
Within this module, you will cover five main topics: •	Types of innovations (e.g., product innovation, process innovation, organisational innovation, supply chain innovation and eco innovation).
•	Innovation processes.
•	Knowledge management for innovation.
•	Relating in business networks for managing innovations.
•	Introduction to selected process and organisational innovations in supply chains.
The module will lead you to the development of a basic understanding of the different facets associated with supply chain innovation.
In doing so, it will expose you to a wide range of supply chain innovation theories and frameworks.
You will become aware of the role the management of supply chain innovations plays in the wider business context.
Furthermore, you will gain an understanding of the role of knowledge management in relation to the management of innovations in supply chains, the drivers for these innovations, the ways in which such innovations can be managed and different aspects associated with the relational nature of managing supply chain innovations.
On completing the module you will have developed an understanding of different types of supply chain innovations, approaches to managing knowledge for supply chain innovation and the relational nature of such innovations.
You will also be able to Identify contemporary professional practice in business and management and understand how it is informed by theory and research.
Global Supply Network Management (Core,20 Credits)
MO9638 -
Strategic and Sustainable Supply Chain Management (Core,20 Credits)
The module aims to provide you with the knowledge and critical appreciation in applying a variety of sustainable supply chain management at the subject interface to support business strategic decision making in this area of subject.
The module is delivered to you using weekly webinar lectures and class-based seminars, principally concentrating on the development of critical appraisal and interpretation of the subject area.
Within this module, you will cover twelve main topics: Logistics Planning Systems and Global Supply Chain Management (SCM).
Relationship Management.
Benchmarking the Supply Chain.
Strategies for JIT and Quick Response Logistics.
Strategies for agile and lean Supply Chain.
e-supply chain, social big data and omni channels.
Strategic Procurement.
Supply chain resilience and mitigation strategies.
Sustainable and reverse logistics.
Business policies for global sustainable supply chain.
Business strategies and socially responsible Supply Chains.
Lean and Six Sigma.
You will undertake various seminar and case study exercises to build the critical understanding of these strategies for sustainable supply chain management (SSCM) to support your group and individual assignment work.
In doing so, it will expose you to a wide range of subject techniques and academic theories in the emerging sustainable supply chain topic areas.
You will become aware of the role of the subject in the broader business context.
Furthermore, you will gain an understanding of the role of the Supply Chain Manager and the development of various related business problem solving competencies.
On completing the module you will be able to understand sustainable supply chain policies, select, apply and critically appraise the appropriate strategies to support business problem solving in a variety of situations.
You will have developed relevant competencies  to support the theoretical material introduced throughout the module.
You will create and design appropriate case study solutions as well as the use of a supporting theoretical underpin to SSCM problem solving.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-business-and-supply-chain-management-uuscmt1:
UCAS Code N1NS
£5,000 Scholarship
RHA Benevolent Fund Scholarships for 2025
More Business Research
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Business and Supply Chain Management.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-business-computing-extended-degree-uusxcp1:
With an expert knowledge of software, hardware, and information systems developed in this BSc (Hons) in Business Computing course, you will help keep businesses functioning.
The BSc in Business Computing is a dynamic, interdisciplinary degree that blends core business management principles with cutting-edge computing technologies.
Our BSc in Business Computing is designed to give you a solid foundation in both areas, empowering you to become a leader in today’s digital economy.
Throughout the course, students will develop a deep understanding of programming, data analytics and software development while also gaining critical knowledge in business areas like management, consultancy, and IT operations.
They will explore how digital technologies are reshaping business practices in today's digital landscape.
With a strong focus on practical applications, students engage in real-world problem-solving through projects, collaborations with industry, and case studies.
The programme also emphasises soft skills like communication, teamwork, and critical thinking, which are essential for business and IT professionals.
This course has been specifically designed to address industry demand, delivering work-ready graduates with the skills, knowledge, and professionalism that employers are looking for.
See other similar courses you may be interested in: Games Computing BSc (Hons) , BSc Business and Analytics
Computer Science and Informatics is ranked 12th in the UK for research power out of 90 submissions (REF, 2021).
Throughout the course, you will use specific software packages and gain industry certifications that are in high demand with employers.
You will have plenty of chances to practice your skills too.
You will take part in a business consultancy project during your degree, delivering solutions to real-world problems.
UCAS Code Z061
Hear what it is really like to study Computer Science from our students and staff
To start, you will set yourself up for success.
You will study computer science essentials like computational thinking,
programming and data, and also get your first introduction to business
computing.
Thanks to some shared modules, you will get to know other students
on our computer science degrees and make connections between the different
topics we teach.
Next, you become a specialist, focusing almost
entirely on business computing.
You will study Business Information Systems, IT
Service Management and Human-Computer Interaction.
You will also get the
chance to work on a consultancy project, getting practical experience of the real-world
application of business computing.
Your final year makes you an expert, ready for the world of
work.
You study Business Intelligence (BI) and explore experimental design for
interactive applications.
You will also complete a group computing task with fellow
students and work independently on your dissertation.
This is your chance to
impress employers by designing, building, and evaluating your own project.
During your course, the assessments are designed to help you
develop the knowledge, understanding and skills required of a computer science
graduate.
You will be assessed through a variety of different methods including
exams, reports, presentations, individual, group and project work.
You will be taught by a range of academic staff who bring a
wealth of professional experience from the business computing sector.
As well as teaching you and conducting research, your tutors
work with other organisations and regularly publish work in prestigious
publications, contributing solutions to business computing challenges.
Computer Science programmes at Northumbria take place in a
dynamic learning environment where you will have access to an expert team of
staff - developing in-depth technical expertise as well as career-ready skills
like teamwork, communication and critical thinking.
Andrew Turnbull
Dr David Hastings
Dr Dirk van der Linden
Julie Walters
You can take a virtual tour of the facilities here .
You will be taught by staff with a strong academic background in research-informed areas.
Almost every business relies on computer hardware, software and systems to function and grow, meaning they need highly skilled Business Computing professionals to maintain and develop everything.
Your future career options include Business Analyst, Software Engineer, Data Analyst, IT Management, Interaction Design Specialist, and more.
This work could be in a wide range of sectors such as: Financial services, Healthcare, Technology, Media, Marketing, Government, Military, Agriculture, Gaming, and Retail.
You will graduate with specialist skills and knowledge in Business Information Systems, IT Service Management and Human-Computer Interaction, as well as essential professional skills such as Effective communication, Problem solving, Informational literacy, and Teamwork.
Thanks to Northumbria’s excellent professional links, you will have the opportunity to apply for a placement in the public or private sector, in the UK or abroad.
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study BSc (Hons) Business Computing.
KV4005 -
Business Fundamentals (Core,20 Credits)
This module will give you an essential foundation in business practices.
You will learn about different types of organisations and the functional areas within each organisation.
You will also learn about the aspects of the internal and external environment which impact on the organisation.
This will include learning about analysing organisations using tools such as Porters Five Forces model and by using frameworks such as SWOT and PEST, you will be guided to understand how this information can be used to increase competitive advantage.
You will learn about how information systems are used at various levels in the organisation and how information is used and transferred between functional areas which will help you to gain an understanding about the impact of decision making at all levels of the organisation.
You will also learn about sustainability and the social and ethical responsibilities of an organisation.
To carry out appropriate research you will be guided to identify various information sources and to recognise the validity and appropriateness of different sources.
You will also learn to identify important aspects of information and to summarise appropriately.
Throughout the module you will learn about reflecting on your own learning and development.
The skills you learn in this module will be built on in future years and will be directly relevant to gaining employment either on placement or following graduation.
KV5034 -
Business Information Systems (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn the importance and components of Business Information System.
This will include common types of Information System.
Using an Enterprise System as a framework you will explore some common business processes and consider the data required and generated by these and how it can be used to support wider business strategy and reporting.
It will also provide students with practical experience in the use of such systems which will provide invaluable in helping with a placement and employability.
Wherever possible workshops will use small case studies and training exercises adapted from standard ERP training to illustrate and explore theoretical discussions as well as giving practical experience using such a  system.
Additional exercises will be set as independent work.
KV5047 -
Human-Computer Interaction (Core,20 Credits)
This module will introduce you to Human-Computer Interaction (HCI), a field of study focusing on the interaction between humans (the users) and computers.
It brings together multiple disciplines, such as computer science, the social sciences, design and human-factors engineering.
In this module you will specifically explore how to design, develop and evaluate ethically aligned interactive technologies from a human-centred perspective that embed all stakeholders in the process and accounts for a sustainable development of technology.
You will also engage with underlying principles and theories from contemporary HCI research.
Indicative topics that we will cover include (but are not limited to): • User-centred design (UCD) lifecycle • Understanding users, context, and social interactions: Requirements capture methods, Accessibility and Inclusion, • Understanding design: Usability heuristics and evaluation; User interface standards • Prototyping techniques for interface design: low and high fidelity • Evaluation methods: expert appraisal and user-led Research-rich learning is heavily embedded in this module, by engaging with the latest HCI research and carrying out your own UCD research.
You will be taught by academics who have published extensively in the field of HCI.
KV5052 -
Requirements Engineering (Core,20 Credits)
This module will introduce you to the requirements engineering (RE) process.
It provides a foundation knowledge of the key techniques used within requirements engineering to elicit, analyse, and validate what people need out of a system to be designed before it is built, the challenges in applying these techniques well to create requirements specifications, and the way in which the RE process is situated into wider systems development and business analysis lifecycles.
‘Requirements Engineering’ will prepare you for further modules in your program involving systems development as well as for your final year project and any placement years or consultancy projects you might undertake.
Research among industry has shown that skills in requirements engineering are deemed critically needed—not a surprise as most failure in systems development are determined before any design or coding has been done During ‘Requirements Engineering’ you will engage in research-rich analysis of requirements engineering topics and learn how to conduct a variety of requirements engineering techniques.
The main element in assessment (100%) will be a final research-driven requirements specification report that will bring together all your new skills and knowledge and allow you to develop a requirements specification for a provided brief.
KV6011 -
Business Intelligence (Core,20 Credits)
This module will introduce the key elements of business intelligence and organisational decision making.
Drawing on business analytics, decision science and systems thinking, you will explore how organisations are able to leverage data and information to formulate a complete understanding of complex problems and to identify and implement optimal solutions.
Employers are looking for data-literate graduates with the ability to explore and solve novel business problems, and as such, this module will cover topics such as organisational process modelling, business performance management, data analytics in a business context, and the use of data visualisation as a tool for exploration and communication.
You will have to the opportunity to work with others in collaborative problem-solving scenarios, to investigate how businesses can use effective decision making to achieve optimal, sustainable solutions, and to explore the ethical, legal, and societal issues present when using data-driven technologies.
Computing Project (40 Credits)
KV6019 -
Experimental Design for Interactive Applications (Core,20 Credits)
This module will extend and enhance your current understanding of human-computer interaction and UX theory/practice in support of the user experience, by investigating how people experience ubiquitous computing technologies (e.g., smart devices and wearables), both individually and in groups across a variety of contexts and domains.
’Experimental Design of Interactive Applications’ will explore key aspects of interaction design, focusing on how we can effectively understand and improve user interaction in context.
Real-world examples (e.g., sourced from industry/employers/research) will be used to illustrate the importance of adopting an iterative, user-centred approach to user journey mapping and interface development which supports equality, diversity, and inclusion.
A range of experimental design methods and UX practices will be covered (e.g., task-based usability tests, usability inspection methods, lab- and field-test planning and deployment), enhancing your knowledge and understanding of relevant theory and techniques whilst helping you to develop practical and transferable skills within the UX domain.
Employers are looking for computing students who understand the importance of user experience and interaction design, can work as individuals or members of a team to analyse interaction design problems in context and, can apply effective experimental design and UX techniques in order to devise effective design solutions for the user experience.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-business-computing-uusbcp1:
UCAS Code GN50

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-business-management-extended-degree-uusxnb1:
Offering a variety of options, Northumbria University’s BA (Hons) Business Management is the most flexible of Newcastle Business School’s undergraduate degrees.
Northumbria University's Business Management course will equip you with the skills, qualities and capabilities valued by employers across the private, public and not-for-profit sectors and that underpin successful enterprise.
It means you’ll complete your studies as a highly employable, culturally and ethically aware graduate with the potential to make positive organisational change.
You’ll have the freedom to explore and experiment in a range of different business areas.
Broader management modules include marketing, finance strategy, organisational behaviour and HR.
And you’ll also have the opportunity to choose specialist modules that suit your own interests and intended career.
The programme’s integrated, cohesive approach will enable you to develop your understanding of global business, and how different business functions operate and complement each other.
Through problem-based and experiential learning approaches you’ll focus on real-world challenges that equip you to resolve complex business problems in sustainable, responsible and transformative ways.
Before your final year, we offer the chance to undertake a work placement in the UK or overseas, or to study outside the UK with one of our long-standing partner institutions.
So, you’ll gain crucial real-world experience, preparing you for professional employment or other enterprise-related activity.
Newcastle Business School holds accreditation from the prestigious Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) which places us in in an elite group of business schools globally.
UCAS Code Z032
Our BA (Hons) Business Management programme features research-rich, but practice-led, teaching that develops your cultural, contextual and ethical professional understanding.
Alongside conventional approaches we also embrace student-led, experiential, problem-based learning for which you’re supported to work interactively and collaboratively.
You’ll learn through real-world case studies of multinational corporations and regional/local SMEs, as well as public and not-for-profit organisations and social enterprises.
This cultivates your capacity for practical application, leadership and management.
Our eLearning portal also enables you to contact your tutors in real time and to submit the formative and summative assessments that support your learning.
Between Levels 5 and 6 you can spend a placement year in industry.
In the final year, this culminates in a 40-credit student-led, supervisor-supported integrative dissertation, a ‘live client’ management enquiry or consultancy project with our Business Clinic, or an enterprise project.
This ethos underpins the problem-based, experiential learning approaches embedded within our research-rich curriculum.
This approach will equip you to apply and develop knowledge in ‘real world’ situations, mindful of the cultural context and able to act ethically with integrity.
In the final year of the programme you’ll develop your capabilities as a critically reflective manager capable of making a strategic impact through proactively leading change.
At Newcastle Business School we’re committed to preparing you for your future career and helping you compete in the graduate job market.
So we’ve designed the BA Business Management programme to support you in developing the key competencies, skills and attitude that graduates need.
We make your personal-professional development and career planning a priority across all years of the programme.
You’ll develop your knowledge and understanding of the graduate labour market and of current trends in graduate recruitment and selection, applying this to your own career planning.
There are also volunteering programmes both within and outside the University, and representing your programme at Programme or School level.
Many of our students have successfully secured management positions in public and private organisations.
Others have established their own businesses or gone on to further study such as our Business and Management MSc course .
People, Management and Organisations (Core,20 Credits)
Financial Markets and Institutions (Optional,20 Credits)
Applied Taxation (Optional,20 Credits)
HR9517 -
Responsible Business (Core,20 Credits)
Sustainable Development is the future of business and doing business responsibly is key to improving society as well as business success.
This module builds upon your understanding of Business and Society developed from your previous study and will enable you to develop expertise in corporate social responsibility and business ethics as well as find out how to generate shared value.
You will develop a current understanding of what makes a responsible business and the importance of acting responsibly and ethically, as well as the pitfalls involved in not doing so.
You will learn about the tools and approaches organisations employ to develop responsible business strategy and the models which may be applied to develop a deeper understanding of the impacts, both negative and positive, that business can have on society at large.
You will examine the way in which business report their activities and manage their internal and external profiles.
In doing so you will develop awareness of the ethical issues involved from the perspective of the individual (manager /agent and stakeholder), of individual firms and of wider society, by combining a rigorous theoretical and a strong applied foundation on the topic.
Finally, the module will equip you with the ability to critically examine business strategy and operations with a view to developing responsible business practices, key graduate employability/enterprise/entrepreneurial acumen that will enable you to lead organisations to ‘Take on Tomorrow’.
Resourcing and Development for Diversity (Optional,20 Credits)
HR Analytics and the Labour Market (Optional,20 Credits)
Reward and Performance (Optional,20 Credits)
Employment Law (Optional,20 Credits)
Market Research and Planning (Optional,20 Credits)
MK9527 -
Retail and Multichannel Marketing (Optional,20 Credits)
This module provides you with an understanding of the strategic marketing principles and tools used by retailers to satisfy both transactional and relational objectives.
You will consider the principles of retailing and how they translate into the practice of digital alternatives which have evolved in this vibrant sector, enabling retailers to engage and interact with customers across various platforms and touchpoints.
The following three themes will be covered within this module: •	The Principles of Retailing: Its role and importance to the economy and to customers and their decision-making process.
•	The Retail Mix: An applied marketing mix (e.g.
buying and selling, merchandising, service, store environment and image, digital alternatives).
•	The Digital Revolution: How technology has impacted and evolved the retail function into a multichannel approach for ‘media meshing’ customers, requiring different approaches to the standard Retail Mix On completion of this module you will be able to link theory to practice and analyse the options for different trading platforms for diverse types of product and service offerings and target markets.
You will interpret and rationalise solutions to a range of business problems across alternative business retail models.
MK9528 -
Customer Experience Marketing (Optional,20 Credits)
The module will encourage you to think about the relationships that companies have with their customers over a period of time, rather than view each customer purchase as an individual ‘transaction’.
Given the increasing use of online business models and consumer savviness of how to move between suppliers, the importance of managing the customer experience has never been higher.
With this in mind you will address the following: •	Customer Journey Mapping: You will also be introduced to the principles of managing the customer decision making journey and the company-customer touchpoints that occur prior, during and post-consumption.
•	Customer Satisfaction and Loyalty: You will consider how customer satisfaction is defined and measured in practice and reflect on the relationship between satisfaction and customer loyalty (incorporating the use of loyalty schemes).
This will include appreciating relevant metrics such as net promoter scores.
•	Customer Feedback and Complaint Handling: You will consider how organisations should respond to negative scenarios with a view to retaining customers and limiting reputational damage.
•	Introduction to Database Marketing: As part of understanding customer relationships, you will be introduced to the principles of using a database to manage the customer relationship.
Applied Logistics and Supply Chain Management (Optional,20 Credits)
International Operations Management (Optional,20 Credits)
Strategic Frameworks and Cultural Contexts in International Management (Optional,20 Credits)
SM9533 -
International Business: Growth Strategies and Resourcing (Optional,20 Credits)
On this module you will consider the management issues in relation to growth and resourcing for international business management.
It is designed from a real world relevant point of view, and examines practical situations, with topical cases being used in seminars to highlight issues.
This module develops many of the concepts you were introduced to on the level 4 core modules “Financial Decision Making” and “International Business Environment”.
In particular you will study: •	Mergers and Acquisitions including valuation issues in an international M&A context.
•	Alliances, Joint Ventures and IB Networks •	Organic growth : coordination, coopetition and concentration premises •	Choosing and designing an appropriate growth strategy •	Investing in growth (investment decisions) and raising international finance •	Financial goals and corporate governance •	Investment environment volatility and international business currency •	Working capital management •	Professional and business ethical behaviour in an international financial management context.
This module will complement your studies in “Global and International Business Context” and “Performance Management”.
Both of which are co-requisites of this module.
Completion of the course will ensure that you have the required knowledge to progress your studies in international business management.
Entrepreneurial Management (Optional,20 Credits)
TM9539 -
Tourism, Events and Society (Optional,20 Credits)
Tourism and events are important social phenomena in contemporary times with significant impacts on societies around the globe.
This module breaks the mould of approaching tourism and events as self-contained activities to develop a critical awareness of the relationships of tourism and events with culture, place and society.
It takes fun, play and celebration seriously, placing tourism and events at the heart of modern life rather than as a peripheral feature added on after.
It also reveals the ritual, performative and embodied dimensions of tourism and events experiences The module provides an up-to-date overview of social sciences approaches to tourism and events drawing on ideas from sociology, geography anthropology and history.
Some of the topics you will cover include the invention of tourism, events in modernity, authenticity and performativity, host and guest relationships, tourism art, the tourist gaze, embodiment, gender and sexuality, ritualization and tradition, transgressive and transformational events, tourism and its discontents, over tourism, youth cultures and night life economies In this module you will develop a critical awareness of the main challenges and inequalities in tourism and events, supported by international case study examples and opportunities for critical debate.
Special attention will be given to the social and environment tensions and frictions that tourism and events create as well as the various attempts to develop a more responsible approach to tourism and events.
You will learn to develop a sustained reasoned argument where you research and assess paradigms, theories, principles, concepts and factual information, and apply such skills in explaining and solving questions.
TM9542 -
Managing the Travel and Tourism Industry (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will provide you with the knowledge and a critical understanding of the management of travel and tourism offerings both packaged and unpackaged.
The module analyses the pivotal role of principals (accommodation, airlines and attractions), intermediaries, such as tour operators and destination management companies, in the creation and distribution of tourism commodities.
You will develop an appreciation of the complex management and operational challenges faced by managers when planning, marketing and operating responsibly in host destinations.
The module commences with sector overview providing an understanding of the external environment, researching strategic opportunities for new products and developments.
It addresses the key operational, consumer and host destination supplier management challenges, within the political and legal constraints of tourism management in a global context.
The creation of products offerings is examined, with attention being paid to special interest tourism and the complex supply chain necessary in creating such products.
The intricacies and relationships between these actors are analysed and you will develop a working insight into the business of suppliers and management organisations including contracting, digital enterprises and crisis management.
Your studies will highlight the importance of cost-effective dissemination though e-mechanisms and traditional distribution agents.
You will examine the key issues in management operations such as customer service, product innovation and the sharing economy within the associated legal and regulatory frameworks.
International Finance and Responsible Financial Management (Optional,20 Credits)
Contemporary Corporate Reporting (Optional,20 Credits)
Project Management (Optional,20 Credits)
Strategic Leadership for Responsible Organisational Change (Core,20 Credits)
MO9623 -
Supply Networks (Optional,20 Credits)
The module aims to provide you with the knowledge and skills of applying a variety of Supply Networks knowledge at the subject interface to support business decision making in this area of subject.
The module is delivered to you using weekly lectures and seminars, principally concentrating on the development of your subject skills and interpretation of the subject area.
Within this module, you will cover ten main topics: Supply Network Design, Planning and Control; Intermodal transportation; Warehouse Planning and Control; Warehouse Design Management; Inventory Control Systems; Network Management, Operational Perspectives; Network Architecture; Lean Thinking via Process Improvement; You will undertake various seminar and case study exercises to build the skills and expertise in these Supply Network areas to support your group and individual assignment work.
The module will lead you to the development of Supply Network (SN) skills and confidence in handling the knowledge gained.
In doing so, it will expose you to a wide range of subject techniques in the Supply Network subject area.
You will become aware of the role of the subject in the business context.
Furthermore, you will gain an understanding of the role of the Network Manager and the development of various business problem solving models.
On completing the module you will be able to select and apply the appropriate SN techniques to support business problem solving in a variety of situations.
SM9633 -
International Business and Innovation (Optional,20 Credits)
This module aims to provide you with insights into some key considerations that international businesses need to be aware of.
Creating and appropriating value from international business strategy, and aligning with innovation for competitive advantage, are topical aspects that you will engage with in this module.
Analysing and ascribing characteristic  to organisations in  international businesses and note how they change and emerge over time (Cultural profile, Presence and strategic structure profile: International, Multinational, Global and Transnational) 2.
Key competitive advantage in international business 3.
Multidimensional capabilities 4.
First mover advantage in international business: from a strategy of position to that of movement 5.
Managing Networks in International Business 6.
Innovation and the international business context 7.
Ethics and International business ‘Glocal and Global’ – a holistic  perspective
SM9649 -
Emerging Economies (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module, you will learn about emerging economies, their role in the global economy and their importance for international business management.
Building on concepts, theories and techniques introduced in the previous years of your programme, you will engage with current debates in international management with a focus on emerging economies.
•	You will study theoretical approaches to political and economic systems and the local and national embeddedness of business activities.
You will use theoretical ideas and frameworks to critically examine the interactions between organisations and the political and administrative systems and institutions in countries with emerging economies.
•	You will analyse business environments in major emerging economies in the world (including Brazil, Russia, India and China), how they differ from the West and from each other.
•	You will investigate and critically discuss recent economic and political developments in emerging economies, analysing key trends relating to economic and social development.
•	You will develop a broad understanding of issues managers face while operating in emerging economies, appraise business opportunities and formulate strategies for successful business management.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-business-management-uusbnb1:
UCAS Code N205
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Business Management.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-business-management-i2i-sports-dufbni1:
Equipping you with the skills, qualities and capabilities valued by employers across the private, public and not-for-profit sectors, you'll complete your studies as a highly employable, culturally and ethically aware graduate with the potential to make positive organisational change.
You'll have the freedom to explore and experiment in a range of different business areas with the opportunity to choose specialist modules that suit your interests and intended career, alongside broader management modules that include marketing, finance strategy, organisational behaviour and HR.
The course's integrated, cohesive approach will enable you to develop your understanding of global business and how different business functions operate and complement each other.
Through problem-based and experiential learning approaches, you'll focus on real-world challenges that equip you to resolve complex business problems in sustainable, responsible and transformative ways.
Accreditation: Newecastle Business School is accredited by the prestigious Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Busines (AACSB).
Mode of Study 3 years Full Time
We're Business, but not as usual.
Combining academic study with pro-level soccer development
i2i International Soccer Academy
Discover the Northumbria student experience
Business Management BA (Hons) features research-rich and practice-led teaching that develops your cultural, contextual and ethical professional understanding.
Alongside conventional approaches, we also embrace student-led, experiential, problem-based learning for which you’re supported to work interactively and collaboratively.
You’ll learn through real-world case studies of multinational corporations, regional/local SMEs, public and not-for-profit organisations, and social enterprises, cultivating your capacity for practical application, leadership and management.
Virtual, self-directed learning technologies support you 24/7, including extensive, carefully curated resources from leading management researchers and practitioners.
Our eLearning portal also enables you to contact your tutors in real-time and to submit the formative and summative assessments that support your learning.
To maintain their professional profile, our staff are actively involved in consultancy, enterprise, organisational consultancy and research in areas such as supporting workforces through global crises, financial crime, ageing workforce, organisational psychology, social entrepreneurship, business ethics and corporate social responsibility.
The involvement of our academics in these activities directly informs the content of modules we teach, offering the chance to develop an up-to-the-minute understanding of the challenges of complex, global workplaces.
The library offers extensive online and offline resources, including business journals, databases, and research tools and the University possesses business software that includes ARIS Express Business Process Modelling, various SAS applications, Microsoft Project, specialist decision-making software, and Google Analytics,
There will be plenty of opportunities to put your learning into practice.
The Graduate Futures team promotes all types of experiential learning including volunteering, internships and placements, and The Business Clinic provides opportunities for students to work on live projects, giving advice to our region’s businesses.
Discover your facilities at learning spaces
Your Learning Space: Business
Northumbria's research ethos underpins the problem-based, experiential learning approaches embedded within our research-rich curriculum.
In the final year of your course, you’ll develop your capabilities as a critically reflective manager capable of making a strategic impact through proactively leading change.
This project will help you develop and demonstrate your curiosity, creative problem-solving and innovative capability to evaluate and analyse academic or professional practice critically.
Research Excellence Framework 2021: Business and Management is ranked 9th in the UK for Research Power* - this is a rise of 51 places, the largest rise in the sector.
*What we call 'research power' is the overall quality of our submission (the 'grade point average' [GPA]) multiplied by the full-time equivalent (FTE) number of researchers submitted.
Biggest rise in research power for the second time running (REF 2021)
Ranked 9th in the UK for Research Power
For Business and Management, REF 2021
At Newcastle Business School, we’re committed to preparing you for your future career and helping you compete in the graduate job market.
Business Management BA (Hons) has been designed to support you in developing the key competencies, skills and attitudes that graduates need.
We make your personal-professional development and career planning a priority across all years of study, and you’ll develop your knowledge and understanding of the graduate labour market and of current trends in graduate recruitment and selection, applying this to your own career planning.
We offer additional opportunities to enhance your CV, develop your employability or enterprise skills, and increase commercial awareness.
These include work placements, overseas travel and study, guest speakers, and networking.
There are also volunteering programmes outside and within the University, such as representing your course at Programme or School level.
Many of our students have successfully secured management positions in public and private organisations; others have established their own businesses or gone on to further study with us, such as Business and Management MSc .
Supporting you and your career ambitions
Your Route to Success
We receive a high number of applications with qualifications from the United States
The US High School Graduation Diploma with a minimum GPA of 3.0 plus ACT score of 26 or SAT overall score of 1240 (with a minimum of 610 in Maths and 630 in Reading and Writing) or Advanced Placement tests at grade 3 or above in at least 2 tests.
Find out how many points your qualifications are worth by using the UCAS Tariff calculator:?
www.ucas.com/ucas/tariff-calculator
If you have qualifications from outside the UK, find out what you need by visiting?
www.northumbria.ac.uk/yourcountry
You can find details of acceptable tests and the required grades in our English Language section:?
www.northumbria.ac.uk/englishqualifications
UK Fee in Year 1:

                                £28,035
International Fee in Year 1: £34,500
GA4002 -
Academic Language Skills for Newcastle Business School i2i (Core – for International and EU students only,0 Credits)
This module is designed to support your transition to a British university and help you develop the key skills required to successfully undertake your undergraduate degree.
By the end of the module, you should be confident in how to quickly and effectively read and process texts, understand the critical thinking processes behind selecting relevant information and how to incorporate that into your own writing in an acceptable manner, including correctly citing and referencing your work.
In addition, we will look at how presentations are used in universities and help you develop the skills to write and deliver high quality academic presentations.
The topics you will cover on the module include: •	Understanding the difference between critical engagement and description •	Processing texts quickly and efficiently •	Understanding the importance of using good quality sources.
•	Avoiding academic misconduct and building as argument by citing referencing correctly •	Using electronic referencing aids •	Developing academic writing skills •	Understanding assignment briefs to maximise your grades.
•	Designing & delivering discipline-related academic presentations.
International Digital Economy (Core,20 Credits)
Management Enquiry (Core,40 Credits)
International Business and Innovation (Core,20 Credits)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-business-with-business-analytics-with-advanced-practice-london-dtsbbl6:
Fee UK/Home Fee: £12,350 (25/26) International Fee: £20,950 (25/26)
The Business Intelligence (BI) market is anticipated to reach USD 75.7 billion by 2033, driven by higher dependency on data analytics, cloud adoption, and AI integration (Yahoo Finance, 2024).
If you want to take advantage of this current growing demand, be sure to accelerate your career aspirations with a business-focused Masters degree that will enhance your employability in the growing field of Business Analytics.
On this course, you will build upon your current knowledge of business by gaining invaluable knowledge and desirable skills in core areas of leadership, management, strategy, innovation, and project management.
Following this, our specialist modules in the second semester will then enable students to develop their expertise in business analytics, focusing on business intelligence technologies and strategic marketing models.
Throughout the course, there’s a focus on developing your personal capability, creativity, innovation, project management, and leadership potential.
You will study specialist modules that will cover topics such as Business Intelligence in Practice as well as Strategic Marketing and Analytics, in which you will develop expertise in data analytics tools as well as management strategies for the analysis of organisational data.
The course culminates in a Masters dissertation where you’ll develop your academic skills and overall employability by building your confidence and presentation skills, effective teamworking, and research skills.
If you enrol on the 1-year Masters (non-Advanced Practice) your study duration will be 12 months long over the 3 consecutive semesters.
Please refer to the table below on start and end points:
Students who have successfully completed this programme typically enter professional and graduate management positions and, you’ll be well-equipped with the skills and experience to follow suit and kickstart your own career.
Thanks to the specialist modules on this course – Business Intelligence in Practice & Strategic Marketing and Analytics, you’ll gain expert knowledge in areas related to business analytics, including big data and data mining, business strategies, and consulting that will enable you to enhance your future career prospects.
Potential career routes after this course include but are not limited to:
Upon successfully completing your course, you may undertake further professional development and training through Professional Pathways programmes .
Find out more about Professional Pathways and your eligibility .
The Advanced Practice version of this course offers you the opportunity to choose from one of our four advanced practise modules, where you can opt to either do a masters’ internship, complete a consultancy project, create and pitch a successful business plan, or develop your expertise through professional skills practice.
Each of these options will give you invaluable experience, whether this is from being in a real-world workplace environment, working with live business issues, developing a successful business plan, or expanding your skills – all paths will enable you to be fully prepared for employment post-graduation.
This stage of the programme will take place after your Masters Dissertation and is a semester long (15 weeks) in duration.
Internships as part of the Advanced Practice stage may be paid or unpaid.
Whichever option you choose, you will successfully develop your business skills and further enhance your employability.
The Advanced Practice programme is structured as below:
Business reading:
IELTS 6.0 (with no component below 5.5)
All modules are core and 20 credits unless otherwise stated.
Leadership and Management in Professional Practice This module aims to enhance your critical understanding of leadership theories and models: Review and adopt leadership and management concepts within your current and future career roles.
Gain understanding of the characteristics, behaviours, and attitudes of the workforce consisting of Millennials and Generation Z in order to build robust relationships and utilize their capabilities effectively.
Identify your leadership styles, behaviours, and attitudes through a range of professional tests, which helps you develop your professional identity.
This module also includes a 2-day residential event where you will participate in a variety of practical activities and deal with complex scenarios.
Through expert feedback and reflective practice, you will be able to explore the practical implementation of the concepts learned and enhance your interpersonal and intrapersonal capabilities.
Strategy, Innovation and Change In this module, you will develop strategic thinking knowledge and skills and apply these in the context of sustainability and ethical decision-making Develop an understanding of stakeholder analysis i.e.
both internal (customers, finance, operations, HR, IT), as well external partners.
Develop knowledge and practical skills in how to create a culture of innovation and lead organisational change.
Explore the role of digital technology in the context of innovation and change and digital strategy.
Gain key understanding to develop entrepreneurial and intrapreneurial opportunities in business enterprises.
Data Analytics and Project Management for Business Intelligence This module will introduce you to project management principles and practices to implement data analytics projects Develop practical skills in data analytics and agile project management by using hands-on ‘learn by doing’ and ‘project-based’ approaches.
Learn project management concepts, methodologies and tools including agile approaches.
Explore real-world problem and develop data analytics and business intelligence solutions using an agile project management approach throughout the semester.
Develop team working, collaboration, adaptability, and leadership skills to deliver business solutions.
The knowledge and skills obtained from this module will prepare you to take on roles such as data analyst, business analyst, BI Analyst, Project Manager, or similar roles.
International Business Simulation In this module, you will work in teams to make strategic decisions in a realistic simulated environment and learn how to balance competing priorities to achieve sustained competitive advantage.
The simulation environment will combine theory and practice to enable you to develop in-depth knowledge and skills in a variety of business functional areas.
Learn through a hands-on problem-solving approach using the Design Thinking framework.
Explore and understand market dynamics and competition.
Visualize business insights, develop ideas, test strategies in a simulated environment, and refine them.
Business Intelligence in Practice This module provides you with a comprehensive understanding of Applied Business Intelligence (BI) that can form part of a BI implementation and Analytics, Database Modelling and Query Processing, BI technologies, modern analytics, Big Data, and data mining.
Develop data skills such as data management, storage, accessibility, and readiness for decision-making across a range of organisational contexts.
Learn how to effectively use different Business Intelligence technologies and critically evaluate their impact on business performance, strategies, and competitiveness.
Strategic Marketing and Analytics In this module, you will be actively engaged in research-rich learning through Research Led and Research Tutored learning.
You will be introduced to strategic marketing models developed based on research and asked to discuss their implementation through a critical lens.
Explore tools, methods, data analysis frameworks, and metric measurement and use these to analyse websites and e-commerce stores.
Evaluate various scenarios to improve marketing processes and strategic marketing decisions.
Work in groups to analyse, compare, and contrast various options and propose the most appropriate option to grow conversion rates on websites and business performance.
Academic and Employability Skills and Research Methods and Masters Dissertation (60 credits) This module is designed to build your confidence and capabilities as a postgraduate student and researcher, as well as provide you with the graduate skills needed to progress into high-skilled employment or doctoral study.
Develop your academic skills and overall employability.
Build upon your presentation skills, effective teamworking, and advanced search skills.
Gain the confidence to synthesise information from multiple sources.
Learn about how to structure your dissertation proposal.
Be introduced to a range of additional careers and employability workshops.
Work alongside your research supervisor to complete your final research project/dissertation.
This module aims to enhance your critical understanding of leadership theories and models:
In this module, you will develop strategic thinking knowledge and skills and apply these in the context of sustainability and ethical decision-making
This module will introduce you to project management principles and practices to implement data analytics projects
In this module, you will work in teams to make strategic decisions in a realistic simulated environment and learn how to balance competing priorities to achieve sustained competitive advantage.
This module provides you with a comprehensive understanding of Applied Business Intelligence (BI) that can form part of a BI implementation and Analytics, Database Modelling and Query Processing, BI technologies, modern analytics, Big Data, and data mining.
In this module, you will be actively engaged in research-rich learning through Research Led and Research Tutored learning.
This module is designed to build your confidence and capabilities as a postgraduate student and researcher, as well as provide you with the graduate skills needed to progress into high-skilled employment or doctoral study.
The modules you will study do not require you to purchase additional textbooks although we recommend you allow an additional £100 for the duration of your studies should you choose to purchase any additional reading materials.
Scholarships and bursaries for international students Depending on the country you are from, you may be eligible for a country bursary and/or scholarship when studying this Masters programme.
Scholarships and bursaries Payment plans for self-funded students If you need support to spread the cost of your tuition, you may be eligible for our payment plan.
Depending on the country you are from, you may be eligible for a country bursary and/or scholarship when studying this Masters programme.
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study 1 year MSc Business with Business Analytics .
Students will then select 1 of the following 4 modules: Masters Internship (60 credits) This module aims to equip you with real-life experiential learning as an intern in a workplace setting.
This experience will provide you with a range of opportunities to develop your discipline-specific knowledge, job-related skills, employability, and entrepreneurial capabilities.
Gain hands-on work experience in a real workplace / organisation and improve your employability skills to become work-ready.
Apply the knowledge and range of soft and hard skills that you have acquired during the taught part of your study programme.
Critically reflect and put yourself on the path of continuous professional development.
Students will then select 1 of the following 4 modules:
Masters Internship (60 credits) This module aims to equip you with real-life experiential learning as an intern in a workplace setting.
This module aims to equip you with real-life experiential learning as an intern in a workplace setting.
Consultancy Study (60 credits) As a student enrolled on one of the 2-year Advanced Practice Programmes you may undertake a group consultancy project within the first semester of your second year of Masters’ study (the alternative is an Internship).
Enterprise Business Start up (60 credits) This practical module is designed to develop your creativity, innovation, and business planning skills, enabling you to adopt a design thinking approach to deliver an effective business plan.
Understand how enterprise business start-up activities are a growing requirement to raise skills, improve living standards, improve country competitiveness and productivity, and maintain and gain new competitive advantages.
Develop an effective business idea, engage with stakeholders, and develop an effective business plan.
Discover why the social environment is now fundamental to enterprise business start-ups.
Professional Skills Practice (60 credits) This module is designed to develop your self-guided learning and professional skills to maximise your employability with the support of a careers and employability coach.
Work with your personal skills tutor to conduct a skills analysis to identify relevant training for you to undertake.
Carry out applied skills training delivered in the form of a skills boot camp within a class environment, structured online learning, a mini project, or another appropriate form of training approved by the academic team.
Build upon your knowledge and skills developed in the taught part of your study to be fully prepared for the start of your career post-graduation.
As a student enrolled on one of the 2-year Advanced Practice Programmes you may undertake a group consultancy project within the first semester of your second year of Masters’ study (the alternative is an Internship).
This practical module is designed to develop your creativity, innovation, and business planning skills, enabling you to adopt a design thinking approach to deliver an effective business plan.
This module is designed to develop your self-guided learning and professional skills to maximise your employability with the support of a careers and employability coach.
London Cost of Living Bursary Eligible international students will receive an automatic bursary for £1,334, covering one month’s living costs in London*, applied at the Conditional Offer as a fee discount.
This bursary is effective for intakes in January 2025, May 2025 and September 2025.
Please visit our Scholarships page [LINK- https://london.northumbria.ac.uk/courses/new-students/bursaries-and-scholarships/ ] for more information.
*As defined by UKVI Scholarships and bursaries Payment plans for self-funded students If you need support to spread the cost of your tuition, you may be eligible for our payment plan.
Eligible international students will receive an automatic bursary for £1,334, covering one month’s living costs in London*, applied at the Conditional Offer as a fee discount.
*As defined by UKVI
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study MSc Business with Business Analytics with Advanced Practice .
UK/Home Fee: £12,350 (25/26) International Fee: £20,950 (25/26)
Minimum 2:2 honours degree from a UK university or equivalent
UK/Home Fee: £15,350 International Fee: £23,950
Minimum 2:2 honours degree from a UK university, or equivalent

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/business-with-entrepreneurship-with-advanced-practice-london-dtsenq6:
The 25th Global Entrepreneurship Monitor report has found that the UK is a significantly more entrepreneurial society than it was at the start of the millennium (NatWest, 2024).
This can be seen from the increase in the number of private sector businesses in the United Kingdom, which at the start of 2024 was estimated to be around 5.5 million (Gov.uk, 2024).
All big businesses and well-renowned companies once started with a simple great idea – take the first step towards a successful career either in business or as an entrepreneur with our business-focused master’s degree.
This programme will enable you to develop your broad business skills and build your professional identity, focusing on how to manage others, think strategically, and also learn project management.
In the second semester, this course offers students the ability to specialise in entrepreneurship by taking two specialist modules.
The modules on this programme will cover key concepts of entrepreneurship, how to create a successful business plan that is ready for investment, and also help you to develop a digital entrepreneurial mindset.
The aim of this course is to develop these skills as they will make you a highly sought-after candidate as employers are keen to recruit people who can achieve break-through change and lead new initiatives.
By the end of this programme, you’ll be in an excellent position to apply for graduate roles or to start your own business.
Employer’s value entrepreneurial skills and are keen to hire graduates with entrepreneurial knowledge, particularly for roles in consultancy, sales, and marketing.
Thanks to the specialist modules on this programme – New Venture Development & Design for Digital Enterprise, you’ll gain expert knowledge in areas related to entrepreneurship, including innovation and strategic thinking, social entrepreneurship and business modelling that will enable you to enhance your future career prospects.
If you don’t meet the academic requirements
International entry equivalencies
New Venture Development In this module, you will learn the different steps it takes to develop a business opportunity into a business plan which is investment ready.
This module will also enable you to understand theories and models related to Enterprise and Entrepreneurship, and gain practical experience around key concepts for entrepreneurship.
Carry out market research to validate a business idea and map out a business model for a scaling strategy.
Learn key theories and models, as well as how to apply them through a group project to develop market research using a Lean Start-up methodology.
Cover topics such as climate technology entrepreneurship, lean start-up, business modelling, business planning, financing, and the entrepreneur’s well-being.
Design for Digital Enterprise In this module you will enhance your understanding of how various types of enterprises are operating, examining the effective utilisation of resources both tangible & intangible, and the impact of those elements on organisational performance.
You will also use data-driven decision-making, technology, and a customer-centric approach, among other methods, to develop a digital entrepreneurial mindset.
Develop your creative business mindset, professionalism, networking skills and entrepreneurial essence.
Learn how open innovation, emerging technologies and social entrepreneurship can have the biggest impact on fulfilling the United Nations’ Sustainability Goals (SDG).
Master your skills in new venture development or entrepreneurial innovation and strategic thinking.
In this module, you will learn the different steps it takes to develop a business opportunity into a business plan which is investment ready.
In this module you will enhance your understanding of how various types of enterprises are operating, examining the effective utilisation of resources both tangible & intangible, and the impact of those elements on organisational performance.
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study 1 year MSc Business with Entrepreneurship .
You can check more information on how to apply here .
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study MSc Business with Entrepreneurship with Advanced Practice .
Coursework and exam

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/business-with-financial-management-with-advanced-practice-london-campus-dtsbfq6:
The financial and insurance services sector contributed £208.2 billion to the UK economy in 2023, accounting for 8.8% of the total economic output (The House of Commons Library, 2024)
This MSc Business with Financial Management programme will provide you with the essential business knowledge, personal skills, and financial insight needed for a wide variety of roles in business and finance.
The aim of this course is to not only enable you to specialist in financial management, but also to develop skills which are highly sought after by employers.
The modules on this programme will cover general business functions, strategic management, data analytics, and project management that will, along with the specialist modules focusing on financial technologies and corporate finance, develop your strategic and financial awareness, leadership potential and understanding of international business.
Graduates who have successfully completed this programme typically enter professional and graduate management positions and, by the end of this course, you’ll be well-equipped with the skills and experience to follow suit and kickstart your own career.
Thanks to the specialist modules on this programme – Corporate Finance & Financial Technologies for Market Modelling and Analysis, you’ll gain expert knowledge in areas related to financial management, including capital budgeting techniques, the FinTech landscape, and sustainable finance that will give you the edge and enhance your employability.
Upon successfully completing your course, you may undertake further professional development and training through Professional Pathways programmes.
These are offered to our graduates for free, from our partner, QA.
Find out more about the Pathways available and your eligibility.
Applicants who do not have such an academic qualification but do have substantial experience of working in a business organisation and/or possess a relevant professional qualification will also be considered.
If you’re unsure if you meet the entry criteria, please contact us and our team will be able to advise you.
Financial Technologies for Market Modelling and Analysis In this module, you will be exposed to the fast-growing intersection between technology and finance which is disrupting and evolving the financial industry including banking and to some extent, the global business world.
Understand how new technologies are altering the landscape of the financial, business, and trade systems.
Explore the impact of digital technologies becoming the norm and taking centre stage in the financial services industry.
Develop a knowledge of the origins of the FinTech revolution and unique features of the financial services industry.
The knowledge and skills obtained from this module will prepare you to take roles such as Business Consultant, Financial Analyst, Open Bank Delivery Manager, Performance Reporting Manager, Financial Product Manager or similar roles.
Corporate Finance In this module, the theory and practice of corporate finance will be explored in order for you to develop your knowledge and skills to understand, design and apply innovative finance schemes for the development of innovative corporate financial strategies.
This module will give you the knowledge and tools needed to make sound financial and investment decisions in your future career.
Develop an understanding of capital budgeting fundamentals, focusing on cash flow and cost of capital estimation.
Consider appropriate capital budgeting techniques for investment evaluation, as well as a wide variety of sources of finance.
Apply innovation-driven thinking in various problem-solving scenarios.
In this module, you will be exposed to the fast-growing intersection between technology and finance which is disrupting and evolving the financial industry including banking and to some extent, the global business world.
In this module, the theory and practice of corporate finance will be explored in order for you to develop your knowledge and skills to understand, design and apply innovative finance schemes for the development of innovative corporate financial strategies.
The modules you will study do not require you to purchase additional textbooks although we recommend you allow an additional £150 for the duration of your studies should you choose to purchase any additional reading materials.
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study the 1 year MSc Business with Financial Management programme.
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study the MSc Business with Financial Management with Advanced Practice programme.
Minimum of a 2:2 honours degree or equivalent from a recognised university
Coursework and exams
Minimum of a 2:2 (second class) honours degree, or equivalent from a recognised university

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-business-with-hospitality-and-tourism-management-with-advanced-practice-london-dtsbhl6:
According to an Oxford Economics report, it is predicted that travel demand will continue to grow in 2025 and see new record levels being reached across most destinations (Oxford Economics, 2024).
However, international tourism is not the only area of focus as it has been reported that domestic and intraregional tourism remain major opportunities (McKinsey, 2024).
Are you looking to complement your undergraduate studies with a business-focused master’s degree that will enhance your employability in the travel & tourism field?
This MSc Business with Hospitality and Tourism Management course will help you to develop broad business skills and discover key topics in the industry such as Hospitality Management with Digital Innovation, International Tourism Management and Development, and more!
Please note this programme is currently under review and modular content is likely to change in line with industry and academic developments.
Please refer to this course page for the most up-to-date information.
Specialist modules will cover topics such as responsible tourism, tour operations, and managing attractions and destinations.
You’ll also explore the issues facing international hospitality organisations.
Your studies will equip you for roles in the hospitality and tourism industries, which need well-qualified professionals, as well as in general management.
The course includes two modules that are focused on developing global management competencies.
Thanks to the specialist modules – Contemporary Hospitality Management, Tourists and Tourism, and the Dissertation – you’ll have a particular edge in roles related to hospitality and tourism.
The Advanced Practice version of this course offers you a valuable opportunity to secure a work placement or complete a group consultancy project, giving you the experience of the workplace environment or live business issues, and an excellent way to put your learning into practice.
This stage of the programme will take place between your second and final semester, and is a semester-long (15 weeks) in duration.
The alternative consultancy module allows you to work in teams with a business organisation working on consultancy-based projects in real business scenarios.
Whether you choose the internship or consultancy project you will successfully develop your business skills and further enhance your employability.
*dependent on what grade you achieve in the Consultancy Project
Hospitality Management with Digital Innovation In this module, you will explore several topics which are relevant to the managerial aspects of the hospitality sector and organisations, and the importance of digital innovation and its main impact on the hospitality sector in a global context.
Gain an understanding of the high-value management practices which companies can use to effectively deal with various trends and factors impacting the hospitality sector.
Identify the impact of using robots, chatbots, artificial intelligence, and other innovative technologies in this sector.
Understand how the industry represents a major source of employment and revenue for various countries, especially developing ones.
International Tourism Management and Development In this module, you will be introduced to the concept of international tourism and learn critical aspects of tourism theory, as well as how apply such ideas to solve problems in hospitality and tourism in light of emerging innovative and technological advances Develop an understanding of the classical theories of tourism.
Learn how the structures of tourism have been transformed by the post-pandemic effects supported by multiple internet-based technologies.
Challenge the classic and often taken-for-granted conceptualisations of tourism and how such received ideas are mistakenly implemented in ever-changing tourism settings in the modern world.
You will also have the opportunity to research and apply the skills you learn in order to develop your career potential in this exciting and dynamic discipline Academic and Employability Skills and Research Methods and Masters Dissertation (60 credits) This module is designed to build your confidence and capabilities as a postgraduate student and researcher, as well as provide you with the graduate skills needed to progress into high-skilled employment or doctoral study.
In this module, you will explore several topics which are relevant to the managerial aspects of the hospitality sector and organisations, and the importance of digital innovation and its main impact on the hospitality sector in a global context.
In this module, you will be introduced to the concept of international tourism and learn critical aspects of tourism theory, as well as how apply such ideas to solve problems in hospitality and tourism in light of emerging innovative and technological advances
You will also have the opportunity to research and apply the skills you learn in order to develop your career potential in this exciting and dynamic discipline
We aim to run the course as advertised however, changes may be necessary due to updates to the curriculum (due to academic or industry developments), student demand or UK compliance reasons
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study the 1 year MSc Business with Hospitality and Tourism Management .
You will also have the opportunity to research and apply the skills you learn in order to develop your career potential in this exciting and dynamic discipline.
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study MSc Business with Hospitality and Tourism Management with Advanced Practice .

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/business-with-human-resource-management-with-advanced-practice-london-campus-dtsbrq6:
According to The Predictive Index’s 2024 The State of Talent Optimization report, 70% of respondents agree that HR is an integral part of the leadership puzzle, with effective HR leadership key to business success (Raconteur, 2024).
If you are looking to take advantage of the increasing demand in the Human Resource field and want to grow your skillset, then this business-focused master’s degree is the programme for you!
The MSc Business with Human Resource Management course will help you to develop a broad range of business skills, where you will build your confidence to lead others, use data analytics, and develop your professional identity.
On this programme you will develop invaluable skills and knowledge that will increase your employability post-graduation.
In the second semester, you will have the opportunity to specialize in human resource management, where you will develop your understanding of the principles, values, and approaches in human resource management (HRM), as well as organisational behaviour and practice.
Graduates who have successfully completed this programme typically enter professional and graduate management positions and you’ll be well-equipped with the skills and experience to follow suit and kickstart your own career.
Thanks to the specialist modules on this programme – HRM and People Analytics & Analysing Organisational Dynamics, you’ll gain expert knowledge in areas related to human resource management, including strategic HR decision-making, data-driven approaches, and organisational analysis that will enable you to enhance your employability in this field.
HRM and People Analytics In this module, you will develop in-depth understanding of a range of key HR areas by critically assessing practical implications within professional settings.
You will develop the skills to use data-driven approaches to deal with a variety of HR challenges such as employee engagement, retention, performance evaluation, learning and development, promotions, and diversity issues.
Understand the fundamental concepts and techniques of people analytics.
Critically review contemporary HR practices within organisational settings to develop real-world knowledge.
Learn data-driven approaches to make informed decisions and manage people effectively.
This module combines hard skills and soft skills and prepares you for HR leader, practitioner and strategic partner roles within organisations.
Analysing Organisational Dynamics In this module, you will learn the established perspectives of organisation theory and be given practical guidance on how to apply these theoretical perspectives when understanding behaviours and practices in organisations.
You will also challenge conventional understanding of organisational behaviour and explore the latest developments.
Challenge both organisational practices and the theories, models and frameworks underpinning management, business and organisations.
Critically approach organisations as a field of theory and practice, and construct your own understanding of ‘management’.
Develop your critical thinking and use research to explore alternative ways of organising.
In this module, you will develop in-depth understanding of a range of key HR areas by critically assessing practical implications within professional settings.
In this module, you will learn the established perspectives of organisation theory and be given practical guidance on how to apply these theoretical perspectives when understanding behaviours and practices in organisations.
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study the 1 year MSc Business with Human Resource Management .
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study the MSc Business with Human Resource Management with Advanced Practice .
A first degree, equivalent to a 2:2 honours classification.
A first degree, equivalent to a 2:2 honours classification

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/business-with-international-management-with-advanced-practice-london-campus-dtsbiq6:
The MSc Business with International Management programme will build upon your current business knowledge and develop your professional & personal skills, which are essential for a wide variety of managerial-level roles.
This programme is open to students from both business and non-business academic backgrounds, and will cover aspects of international business, strategic management, innovation, leadership, business decision-making, and organisational analysis.
These will develop your strategic awareness, leadership potential and understanding of the theory and practice of international business and management.
On this programme you will develop your strategic awareness, leadership potential, and understanding of the theory and practice of international business and management.
In the second semester, you will have the opportunity to specialise in international management by taking our specialist modules where you will consider issues of business ethics and accountability, the role played by corporate governance, and develop your knowledge of strategic marketing models.
You will also benefit from the opportunity to apply your learning in international business within a realistic simulated environment.
Students who have successfully completed this programme typically enter professional and graduate management positions and you’ll be well-equipped with the skills and experience to follow suit and kickstart your own career.
Thanks to the specialist modules on this course – Advances in Responsible Global Business management & Strategic Marketing and Analytics, you’ll gain expert knowledge in areas related to international management, including contemporary global issues, marketing strategy, and business management practices that will enable you to enhance your employability in this field.
Find out more about Professional Pathways and your eligibility
Advances in Responsible Global Business Management In this module, you will explore the future of business and management by closely investigating the globalisation of companies, industries, and countries.
You will learn and critically analyse various concepts, theories, academic models and real-life case studies of international companies, industries, cities, and countries.
Understand contemporary international business and management practices.
Consider a diverse range of contemporary global issues of corporate governance and regulation.
Critically examine the opportunities, mitigating risk, and creating value for an organisation.
In this module, you will explore the future of business and management by closely investigating the globalisation of companies, industries, and countries.
Enquire now to find out to find out more information about the course, studying with us, the application process, and to ask any other questions you may have.
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study the 1 year MSc Business with International Management programme.
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study the MSc Business with International Management with Advanced Practice programme.
Minimum 2:2 honours degree from a UK university or equivalent.
Professional qualifications may also be accepted.
IELTS 6.0, with no single element below 5.5
Minimum 2:2 honours degree from a UK university, or equivalent.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-business-with-marketing-management-london-dtfbal6:
The U.S.
Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts that jobs for advertising, promotions and marketing managers will grow 10% between 2020 and 2030 (Forbes, 2022).
This programme is designed to give you an insight into business and enable you to specialise in marketing management, focusing first on building your general business knowledge to then later develop your leadership potential, learn about project management, and grow your understanding of international business.
This course is designed to develop your understanding of the global business environment, importance of marketing within an international context, and strategic marketing.
Thanks to our specialist modules, you will gain an understanding of strategic marketing and consumer behaviour – giving you the required knowledge and skills to strategically analyse data and implement competitive marketing strategies.
The development of these skills will enhance your employability when you are seeking a career post-graduation, whether this is in business or marketing.
Students who have successfully completed this programme typically enter professional and graduate management positions and, by the end of this course, you’ll be well-equipped with the skills and experience to follow suit and kickstart your own career.
Thanks to the specialist modules on this programme – Strategic Marketing and Analytics & Consumer Behaviour in Contemporary consumption context, you’ll gain expert knowledge in areas related to marketing management, including strategic marketing, consumer behaviour theory, and data analysis that will enable you to enhance your employability within this field.
Upon successfully completing your course, you will be eligible to undertake further professional development and training through Professional Pathways programmes.
Marketing reading:
Consumer Behaviour in Contemporary Consumption Context This module will provide you with a consumer behaviour lens (i.e.
a customer-centric approach) to discuss and analyse consumer behaviour theories, consumer issues, and consumption trends.
Specifically, consumer culture theory, consumer socialization theory, consumer identity, and sustainability will be introduced with application in real-world marketing questions.
Apply the methods, techniques, and frameworks of consumer behaviour in a contemporary environment.
Develop critical thinking, communication, technology, and presentation skills.
Understand consumer behaviour in different life cycle/course stages, industries, and cultural contexts.
This module will provide you with a consumer behaviour lens (i.e.
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study the 1 year MSc Business with Marketing Management programme.
We strongly recommend that you submit your application as early as possible to allow you to complete all of the preparations needed to study your programme.
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study the MSc Business with Marketing Management with Advanced Practice programme.
Minimum of a 2:2 (second class) honours degree or equivalent from a recognised university
Minimum of a 2:2 honours degree, or equivalent from a recognised university

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/business-leadership-and-management-practice-duplmp1:
This innovative degree apprenticeship meets the current and future needs of apprentices and employers.
Open to those both starting their career and those in established careers looking to move into a leadership role, the apprenticeship combines relevant on-the-job experience with up-to-date academic thinking and research-rich learning.
The Chartered Manager degree apprenticeship enables apprentices to develop the business, management and leadership knowledge, professional skills and personal behaviours required to become a fully qualified Chartered Manager.
Much of the learning during the programme will be integrated into apprentices day-to-day work, enabling them to make an impact from the start.
An approach designed to make the best use of emerging leadership skills.
Apprentices will graduate an independent thinker with the ability to apply knowledge to complex problems and identify appropriate solutions.
They will be an effective communicator with the attitudes and skills to work constructively and sensitively in a range of environments.
For the duration of the course, apprentices will also become an ‘Affiliate’ member of the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) and have access to a range of membership support and benefits.
On completion of the apprenticeship, apprentices will receive a dual award including a CMI Level 5 Diploma in Management and Leadership and will have the opportunity to apply for CMI Chartered Manager (CMgr) status.
Northumbria University’s Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship is covered by the prestigious Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) accreditation for Newcastle Business School.
AACSB accreditation is a hallmark of excellence in business education, earned by fewer than 6% of the world's schools offering business degree programmes.
Read more about our ' double' AACSB Accreditation .
Mode of Study 3 years Part Time
Key modules include:
Research skills are a core element of the learning process.
Research tutored and research-led activities are embedded in each module through a mixture of directed learning activities in workshops and seminars.
During the apprenticeship, there are no examinations.
Instead, there is a range of assessments including; reports, presentations, business case analysis, drafting policies, and a major project.
All assessments are designed around the workplace to enable apprentices to relate academic theory and knowledge directly to their current role and organisation.
The Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education (2020) state that - Rigorous, robust and independent End Point Assessment (EPA) gives employers confidence that apprentices can actually perform in the occupation they have been trained in and can demonstrate the duties, and knowledge, skills and behaviours set out in the occupational standard.
This apprenticeship normally takes 3 years part-time, followed by the endpoint assessment which will typically be completed within 3-12 months.
Full details are available on the IFATE website.
University learning will comprise of classroom and online activities including tutor-led interactive workshops designed to deliver practical skills and industry knowledge to support professional development.
We deliver this programme as either a day release and block release study option.
During the course the university will provide apprentices with a professional coach to support their learning, who they will meet with their workplace mentor on a quarterly basis to bridge the gap between work and study.
The programme sits within Northumbria’s Newcastle Business School, which has a global reputation for delivering some of the best business management education in the UK.
We are part of an elite group of less than 1% of business schools worldwide with double accreditation from the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) in business and accounting.
University study will make-up 20% of the apprentice’s weekly learning and timely face-to-face contact will be essential.
Attendance at tutor-led sessions is very important, however as employees, we appreciate apprentices may unavoidably miss an occasionally taught class, therefore, all learning and teaching materials will be available via a virtual classroom and accessible to apprentices remotely.
Apprentices will also be allocated an academic coach who will provide support in respect of academic development.
Whilst on campus, apprentices will have access to the University’s exceptional facilities including social spaces, IT facilities and lecture theatres and not forgetting 24/7 access to our award winning University Library.
Discover more about current research projects at Newcastle Business School
Both Apprentice and their Line Manager will be supported by Northumbria University throughout the programme, including access to online support materials for line managers.
Apprentices will also meet with their own manager/mentor and individual professional development coach in the workplace at least four times each year.
During the programme, many assessments are work-based and aligned to the context and activity of the organisation, leading to increased organisational understanding and performance by the apprentice whilst ensuring they develop new skills and enhance productivity and business performance.
In order to complete the programme, the apprentice will have to demonstrate that they have obtained the relevant skills, knowledge and behaviour required during their workplace training.
Whilst off-campus and in the workplace, apprentices will have access to our technology-enhanced learning (TEL) facilities which provide access to module information, electronic reading lists and online learning resources such as podcasts, e-books and e-journals.
To start the application process for either current employees or new recruits contact our Business and Enterprise team today by email or complete our online enquiry form .
If you are interested in studying this apprenticeship and you are in current full-time employment complete our online enquiry form .
If you are not in full-time employment but would like to study this apprenticeship programme, discover our recruitment opportunities below.
Alternatively, visit our vacancies page for information on all apprenticeship opportunities currently available.
From a combination of acceptable Level 3 qualifications which may include: A-levels, BTEC Diplomas/Extended Diplomas, Scottish and Irish Highers, Access to HE Diplomas or the International Baccalaureate.
We may also consider applicants who have successfully completed a related Level 3 Advanced Apprenticeship, or those with non-standard qualifications, or a significant amount of relevant work-based or professional experience.
International applicants should have a minimum overall IELTS (Academic) score of 6.0 with 5.5 in each component (or an approved equivalent*).*The university accepts a large number of UK and International Qualifications in place of IELTS.
It is a condition that you have GCSE grades C/4 or above in English Language and Maths, or Functional Skills English or Maths at level 2 by the End Point Assessment period of your Apprenticeship.
Additional requirements: Applicants should be employees or have access to organisational experience in order to enable them to apply theoretical concepts to their personal and professional experience.
The ability to benefit from Northumbria University programmes is assessed on a combination of academic and personal qualities which can be demonstrated in a number of ways.
Successful completion of a GCE or VCE Advanced level course of study (or some other equivalent qualification) is just one way.
Students who can in other ways demonstrate their ability to benefit from a Northumbria University programme, in particular mature students without formal qualifications will always be considered and are invited to contact the admissions tutor to discuss their application.
Applicants should use the personal statement on their application to illustrate their abilities, aptitudes, skills, qualifications and experiences which might be taken into account as well as or instead of any of the formal qualifications listed below.
It is University policy to recognise a wide variety of evidence, and potential applicants may wish to discuss this aspect of their application with the admission tutor.</</</</</</
DA4065 -
Understanding academic skills for work-based learning (Core,0 Credits)
Entering higher education requires specific skills and attributes to both manage your studies, and to communicate effectively your ideas within the academic community.
This module aims to support this development at a level appropriate for where you join your programme of study.
You will explore the underpinning skills, which support academic study and which thereby, support the remainder of your programme.
These skills will also benefit you in the workplace and are transferrable in terms of creating effective business reports and delivering verbal and written presentations.
You will develop your academic and intellectual skills, through learning about your own preferred approach to learning, the conventions of academic writing and wider communication skills, how to source appropriate information to support your studies through ethical primary and secondary research, and the development of critical reading and writing.
The outline syllabus will be based on the following themes: •	NU approach to Research Rich Learning and Teaching •	Learning styles and academic literacies – how these influence learning •	Managing study – appropriate management of yourself, and your projects and tasks •	Searching for information to support effective study - conducting primary and secondary research •	Effective reading and note-taking skills •	Academic Writing – how to write effective academic assignments, in a range of different genres •	Professional Writing  - in particular the presentation of research and management reports •	Developing criticality – the use of criticality to support the development of an independent voice •	Citation and referencing skills – how to appropriately acknowledge the sources of the information that you use •	Ethics – the importance of ethics in study and research •	Introduction to business research skills and methods •	Digital Portfolio Building  -  Pebble Plus
DA4066 -
Personal Development and Professional Competence (Core,20 Credits)
This module is designed to support you in setting the foundation for your personal and professional development as an existing or aspiring manager.
We will introduce you to the learning approach that will be adopted throughout the programme and the way in which this suite of modules will support your application of learning from all modules into your professional practice in the workplace.
Through engaging in the workshop sessions and the associated learning activities, you will develop your self-awareness and self-management, interpersonal skills and your abilities in working with others.
The module will also strengthen your capacity as an independent and work-based learner.
The broad areas covered by this module include: •	Developing self-awareness and self-management •	Learning approaches and ownership of personal development •	Interpersonal skills •	Team dynamics and team working Underpinned by theoretical concepts and models and providing opportunities for skills practice, you will develop your management knowledge and skills and demonstrate this through using your workplace practice to evidence your enhanced personal and professional skills.
This module will support you in creating a personal and professional development plan or learning contract that will adapt and develop throughout the programme as you develop new skills and knowledge.
By engaging in self and social development processes, identifying personal and professional development needs and gathering examples of your practice in the workplace, you will be able to evidence your development journey throughout the programme.
DA4067 -
Understanding organisations and management (Core,20 Credits)
This module is intended to underpin the theories and approaches you will encounter in your future studies at Levels 5 and 6.
It will provide you with an introduction to organisational behaviour, and the changing practices of organising and managing.
This will support exploration of leadership and management styles; the dynamics and politics of personal interactions, power, and Influence.
You will consider individual motivation, job satisfaction, and work engagement.
You will gain a broad understanding of the influence of organisational and international cultures.
This will include an appreciation of organisational ethics and values, and building rapport and trust.
DA4068 -
Global Business Environment and Functions (Core,40 Credits)
This module introduces you to the global forces shaping international business and takes into account the macro business environments of different countries and regions.
Broad issues such as globalisation, political systems, major world economies, the formation of trade blocks and the regulation of international trade and finance are considered.
Where appropriate, module explores macro-economic theory.
This module introduces you to the world of economic analysis, providing basic theoretical frameworks for the analysis of individual economic decisions as well as aggregate fluctuations in output, prices and employment.
It covers selected topics in both micro and macro-economics.
The module will also help you to develop an understanding of the external business environment, in terms of institutions, markets, industries and organisations.
During the course of the module, you will have an opportunity to research and analyse contemporary cases that illustrate theory and concepts.
In addition, the module explores the internal functions of an organisation from silos to an integrated approach in order to explore the synergies of cross-functional teams and matrix organisational structures within the contemporary global business environment.
Functions explored in detail include Accounting and Finance, Sales and Marketing, Operations, Human Resource Management, Information Technology and Information Systems.
This module introduces the business functions and forms a holistic foundation in which to ground the digital marketing functions covered in further study at Stages 2 and 3.
DA4069 -
Business Research Methods and Analysis (Core,20 Credits)
This module introduces your learning in a research rich learning environment.
It outlines the nature and value of research within organisations, and you will develop the knowledge and skills to apply a variety of qualitative and quantitative analytical methods and tools to support business research and decision-making.
The module is delivered using workshops, in which key knowledge will be addressed and you will be provided with the opportunity to develop your skills in conducting research and analysing data.
Within this module, you will cover a range of topics, including: •	Introduction to University learning resources •	The value of a research rich approach as a means of enhancing your learning and informing organisational and personal practice •	Using academic theory, models, principles and frameworks to help understand and inform organisational and personal practice •	Engaging with academic literature and published research outputs •	Academic Writing •	Ethics issues in research •	Qualitative research methods – interviewing and observation, analysing qualitative data •	Quantitative research methods – data collection and statistical analysis, comprising data types, sampling, questionnaire design and coding, survey dissemination, data presentation and summary, correlation and regression analysis, time series forecasting.
You will develop your understanding of research methods as a means of informing how you may conduct research within your organisation.
Furthermore, you will be encouraged to consider your role as a researcher and the ethical considerations in the research process.
You will develop skills regarding the analysis of qualitative and quantitative data.
In doing so, it will expose you to a wide range of techniques for use in modelling, analysis and interpretation of business problems.
You will become aware of the role of modelling as an aid to business problem solving.
Furthermore, you will gain an understanding of the role of MS Excel as an aid to data analysis and the development of various business problem-solving models.
Through addressing these themes, you will also learn the significance of research proposals as well as how to structure them.
DA4070 -
Work Based Learning Professional Development 1 (Core,20 Credits)
This module is designed to support you in developing and implementing a work based learning (WBL) plan for your individual continuing professional development (CPD).
This will underpin your development as an independent and self-directed work-based learner and provide you with the skills, knowledge and understanding required for you to outline and negotiate a detailed WBL plan to be implemented for, through and at work.
The focus of your WBL plan should be on developing your management competence and or knowledge in the context of the specific skills and or knowledge required to operate effectively within your particular sector or organisation.
This could include a range of components including for example: work based training, online modules, work projects; secondary data based investigations, best practice and benchmarking reviews, credited CPD programmes, customised modules for your own organisation or programme.
The WBL contract will be individually negotiated between yourself and your workplace and academic coaches, and approved by the module tutor.
Through engaging in the workshop sessions and the associated learning activities, you will develop your confidence and self-management as a work based learner, enhancing your personal planning skills and your abilities in transferring learning into improving your professional practice and working with others.
The broad areas covered by this module include: WBL Planning WBL Objectives Contracting a WBL Agreement Approaches to WBL Transfer WBL Evaluation and Review Underpinned by theoretical concepts and models and providing opportunities for skills practice, you will develop your management knowledge and competence and demonstrate this through using opportunities within your workplace to develop and evidence your sector specific enhanced professional skills.
This module will support you in creating a professional WBL development plan that will extend your sector/organisation knowledge and practice that will provide a foundation for support your future development on the programme.
DA5069 -
Developing academic skills for work-based learning (Core,0 Credits)
You will consider the underpinning skills which support academic study, and which thereby support the remainder of your programme.
These skills will also benefit you in the workplace and are transferrable in terms of effective business communication and related research.
You will develop your academic and intellectual skills, through developing your understanding of your preferred styles of learning, as well as considering the academic requirements for appropriate research, communication, and criticality, as well as ethical research.
The outline syllabus will be based on the following themes: •	NU approach to Research Rich Learning and Teaching •	Learning styles and academic literacies – how these influence learning •	Managing study and projects – appropriate management of yourself, and your projects and tasks •	Searching for information to support effective study - conducting secondary research •	Effective reading and note-taking skills •	Academic Writing – how to write effective academic assignments and research reports, in a range of different genres •	Professional Writing  - in particular the presentation of research and management reports •	Developing criticality – the use of criticality to support your academic voice, and to assess secondary sources and primary data •	Citation and referencing skills – how to appropriately acknowledge the sources of the information that you use •	Ethics – the importance of ethics in study and research and NU Ethics in Research policy and approach •	Digital Portfolio Building  - Pebble PLUS
DA5070 -
Developing Management Effectiveness (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about building trust and rapport with others, using coaching skills as a manager, giving and receiving feedback, having performance conversations, delegation and the importance of networks.
DA5071 -
Managing People (Core,20 Credits)
DA5072 -
Digital Business (Core,20 Credits)
DA5073 -
Innovation (Core,20 Credits)
• Recognise the foundations of innovation, service and organisational improvements • Discriminate between new product, new process, and new service design/development • Understand the diffusion of innovation • Identifying enablers and barriers to innovation • The role of varied stakeholders in the innovation process (co-creation) • Particular focus on understanding and delivering creative solutions to stakeholder and organisational needs (and potential/future needs) • Consider the impact of ethical, cultural, and responsible innovation on organisation performance
DA5074 -
Judgement and Decision Making (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will learn about the importance of decision-making and the type of information which can be used to support decision makers.
In addressing these issues the topics you will study will be drawn from the following themes: •	The importance of the decision-making process in managing organisational performance.
•	Relevant information to support decision making •	Using financial models to inform business decisions.
•	The implications of risk and uncertainty for decision making.
•	Behavioural and cognitive influences on judgement and decision making
DA5075 -
Work Based Learning Professional Development 2 (Core,20 Credits)
This module continues to support you in developing and implementing a work based learning (WBL) plan for your individual continuing professional development (CPD) and follows on from your stage one module.
This will deepen and extend your development as an independent and self-directed WB learner and provide you with the skills, knowledge and understanding required for you to outline and negotiate a detailed WBL plan to be implemented for, through and at work.
The focus of your WBL plan should be on developing further your management competence and or knowledge in the context of the specific skills and or knowledge required to operate effectively within your particular sector or organisation.
You could review and build upon the WBL plan agreed in the previous module to extend and deepen the scope and or focus of your sectoral professional knowledge and practice.
Alternatively, you should also consider formulating a plan that supports you in exploring an area of sector and or organisational specific knowledge or practice that may provide the initial groundwork for informing the potential focus of your final year work based project.
This could include a range of components including for example: work based training, online modules, work projects, secondary data based investigations, best practice and benchmarking reviews, credited CPD programmes, customised modules for your own organisation or programme.
Underpinned by theoretical concepts and models and providing opportunities for skills practice, you will develop your management knowledge and competence and demonstrate this through using opportunities within your workplace to develop and evidence your sector specific enhanced professional skills.
This module will support you in creating a WBL plan that will extend your sector/organisation knowledge and practice that will provide a foundation for supporting your future development on the programme.
DA6059 -
Applying academic and research skills for work-based learning (Core,0 Credits)
You will develop the underpinning skills which support independent study and research, and which thereby support the remainder of your programme.
These skills will also benefit you in the workplace and are transferrable in terms of undertaking business related communications and research.
You will develop your academic and intellectual skills, through applying criticality and communication skills, secondary and primary research and the development to new knowledge.
The outline syllabus will be based on the following themes: •	Learning styles and academic literacies – how these influence research and communication approaches •	Research rich learning and teaching •	Managing academic projects – how to plan effectively and appropriately •	Searching for information to support effective study - conducting primary and secondary research •	Academic Writing – in particular the presentation of research, and the development of critical literature reviews •	Professional Writing  - in particular the presentation of research and management reports •	Presentation skills – in particular the persuasive presentation of research •	Developing criticality – the critical analysis of both secondary sources and primary data, and of your own independent research •	Citation and referencing skills – how to appropriately acknowledge the sources of the information that you use •	Ethics – the importance of ethics in your own and other’s research and NU Ethics Policy •	Digital Portfolio Building - Building your Portfolio of Practice using Pebble Plus
DA6060 -
Leading for Business Impact (Core,20 Credits)
This module continues to support your personal and professional development and follows on from the stage two module.
In this module you will focus specifically on developing your leadership capability.
You will be introduced to the key theories, concepts and models that underpin positive leadership impact.
You will work on building leadership skills through conducting a self-analysis of your leadership strengths and development needs and through engaging in a 360-degree feedback process.
You will learn about your own authenticity and impact on others, emotional and social intelligence, building and motivating teams, inclusivity and cross cultural leadership, and building resilience for change and transitions.
DA6061 -
You will compare and contrast types of change and processes to participatory change and stakeholder inclusion and engagement.
DA6062 -
Strategy (Core,20 Credits)
In doing so your learning will focus on themes addressing the following broad issues: •	The impact on organisations of the external environment: macro-environment, industry, markets.
•	The strategic choices available to organisations to improve strategic position and promote commercial success.
•	The alignment of strategic directions with the corporate social responsibility and ethics framework This module is intended to develop your awareness and critical evaluation of strategic management by assessing the impact of the business environment on organisations.
DA6063 -
From both a practical and theoretical view, you will learn to think about what project management means, the process of project management and how to manage projects by using a number of professional project management methods such as project charters, benefits realisation, work-breakdown structures, and scheduling techniques.
Within this module the main topics covered (incorporating the knowledge areas outlined by the globally recognised ‘A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge’ PMBOK®) include: •	Identifying project requirements •	Addressing the various needs and expectations of the relevant social groups as a project is planned and carried out •	Setting and maintaining active communication with relevant social groups •	Sustainable project management and addressing competing project constraints such as scope, quality, schedule, budget, resources and risk.
Alongside this practical learning, you will develop critical understanding of the importance of integrating social and ethical criteria into project planning and operation.
On completing the module, you will be able to utilise appropriate professional project management techniques.
You will have developed a blend of technical skills with reflective, social knowledge to support the theoretical material introduced throughout the module.
Completion of the module also provides eligibility for entrance to the ‘Certified Associate of Project Management’ examination.
This is a credential offered by the globally recognised Project Management Institute provided the candidate has at least 24 hours of formal project management education.
DA6064 -
Work-Based Project (Core,40 Credits)
The project will focus on a work-based issue and develop your skills in: •	the diagnosis of problems •	identifying project objectives •	project planning and budgeting •	project management •	development of strategies to address problems •	data collection •	data analysis •	addressing ethical issues in research •	drawing supportable conclusions from data analysis •	limitations of the research process •	presentation techniques You will be expected to demonstrate that appropriate ethical, commercial confidentiality and data protection issues are taken into consideration from an organisational, individual perspective by adhering to University Ethical Guidelines.
Furthermore you will also engage in reflection on the learning derived from carrying out the project.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-quantity-surveying-dupqys1:
The Quantity Surveying apprenticeship
pathway has been specifically developed by Northumbria University and the Royal
Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS), alongside industry and partner
education providers to address current skills gaps within the profession.
The apprenticeship takes up
to 5.5 years to complete, with 4 years of
teaching and up to 18 months for end point assessment (EPA).
The EPA is the RICS assessment of professional
competency (APC), which is a mandatory part of the apprenticeship.
The
programme combines vocational skills and workplace practice with academic,
research-rich learning to give students the knowledge and experience that
employers need.
This apprenticeship will give apprentices the
ability to cost building designs, manage the procurement of resources and
negotiate effectively with partners.
They will be able to apply their
academic knowledge and research skills to the real-world quantity surveying
issues encountered daily within working life.
Apprentices will
graduate with a Quantity Surveyor BSc (Hons) and will sit the APC to become an
MRICS Chartered Surveyor if successful.
You should study
this apprenticeship if you are working full-time in a Quantity Surveyor role or
working towards this position and in a relevant role and your employer
can support you with an RICS structured training plan and guarantee access to
an RICS Counsellor from stage 3 onwards.
Delivery
The programme is
delivered predominantly online with one day mandatory face-to-face teaching
(campus day) and two hybrid sessions (online or on campus) per semester.
Please note we also have a full time Quantity Surveying BSc available.
Quantity Surveyor Degree Apprenticeship Case Study
Modules include:
Teaching methods are varied because they are designed to get the best out of each module.
As well as traditional lectures and seminars, apprentices might take part in laboratory work, meet professional speakers, and undertake guided study sessions or self-directed independent learning.
Our assessment methods take the form of exams, research projects, reports, presentations, individual tasks, group work and project work.
During the final year, apprentices will draw on the skills, knowledge and expertise which have been developed over the five year apprenticeship to complete a dissertation.
This apprenticeship normally takes 4 years part-time, followed by the endpoint assessment which will typically be completed within 3-12 months.
We take a research-led approach to all aspects of teaching.
We are a top 30 research department, with 50% of our outputs ranked world-leading or internationally excellent according to the latest UK-wide Research Excellence Framework (REF2014, UoA16)
This programme has been designed to suit a national
market with the lecture content delivered online.
When it is safe to do
so there will be no more than 3 days of attendance per calendar year at
regional hubs across the UK.
This allows the learner to comfortably tie
together the university education experience with the realities of working life.
Our current learners are from a broad geographical spread from Plymouth to
Cumbria to Berwick.
This creates an incredible overview of the industry
nationally.
University study will make-up 20% of the apprentice’s weekly learning and timely face-to-face or remote contact will be essential.
Attendance at tutor-led sessions is very important, however as employees, we appreciate apprentices may unavoidably miss an occasionally taught class, therefore, all learning and teaching materials will be available via a virtual classroom and accessible to students remotely.
Whilst on campus, apprentices will have access to the University’s exceptional facilities including up-to-date technology in our specialist laboratories, industry-standard IT facilities, virtual reality suites, specialist workshops, social spaces, lecture theatres and not forgetting 24/7 access to our award winner University Library.
Explore our full range of Higher and Degree Apprenticeships within the following sectors:
Alternatively, call 0191 215 6300.
If you are not in full-time employment but would like to study this apprenticeship programme, visit our vacancies page for information on all apprenticeship opportunities currently available.
Individual employers may also have their own selection process for this Degree Apprenticeship, and admission onto a higher or degree apprenticeship can only take place if applicants are currently employed, and their employer has a training agreement in place with Northumbria University.
Applicants must be employed in a relevant role, such as a trainee Quantity Surveyor role, with the opportunity to apply theoretical concepts directly to their personal and professional work experience.
International applicants should have a minimum overall IELTS (Academic) score of 6.0 with 5.5 in each component (or an approved equivalent).
It is an ESFA requirement that all apprentices have acquired and can evidence level 2 Maths and English qualifications at GCSE grade C/4 or above before completion of the programme.
For any applicants to a degree apprenticeship programme who cannot provide evidence of level 2 maths and English qualifications on entry, NU will work with a designated level 2 provider to facilitate both an initial diagnostic test and learning support and assessment leading to the required qualification.
Recognition of Prior Learning
Students can apply for exemption from studying individual modules or an entire stage of a programme on the basis of prior learning.
The prior learning and experience of each applicant is mapped against the programme learning outcomes and apprenticeship standards in compliance with ESFA policy on initial skills assessment and the NU Process for Management of Degree Apprenticeship Students : Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL).
DA4032 -
Academic Practice (20 Credits)
You will be introduced to academic study skills to support your learning throughout the programme.
You will also gain awareness of how to contribute effectively to meetings and present information in a variety of ways including oral and written.
You will explore the topics such as: •	Independent learning and time management •	Searching for information, reading and note taking •	Academic writing •	Presentations •	Referencing and plagiarism •	Ethics and standards •	Using technology
DA4041 -
Construction Technology (20 Credits)
You will explore topics such as the following in the context of technologies for small-scale buildings: the construction team and their specific roles in technological decisions •	structural principles •	foundations and groundworks •	principles of enclosure •	principles of environmental control •	building envelope as a climatic modifier •	daylight and lighting need; room conditions and sound transfer •	air transfer mechanisms •	alternative sources of energy •	principles of heat loss •	material properties and choices •	external wall construction methods •	internal walls floors and stairs •	fixtures, fittings and furniture •	principles of sustainability and the impact of construction on the built and natural environments •	health and safety in the construction and use of buildings •	building regulations and associated legislation •	communications and graphical standards in construction technology
DA4042 -
Development & Construction Economics (20 Credits)
DA4043 -
Professional Practice 1 (20 Credits)
The module aims to facilitate the assessment of work-based learning as part of your initial first year on the programme in order to promote good professional and personal development.
This will take the form of an introduction to academic, study and professional skills and will draw on your first-year studies into an ongoing portfolio of work-related knowledge and experience.
It aims to reflect the interdependence of the different topic areas you will study at Level 4, in the context of the surveying profession.
Within this module you will learn the relevance of key surveying skills such as measurement and inspection of property, together with what is expected of you in the role of the surveyor in the workplace in terms of professional ethics, work standards and Fundamental British Values.
The academic content and skills set acquired within the module will assist in personal development in terms of your current and future career aspirations.
In this respect, the programme is accredited by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and will give you the opportunity to apply core knowledge of the RICS Chartered Surveyor Degree Apprenticeship in preparation for the RICS Assessment of Professional Competence (APC) should you wish to do so.
DA4040 -
Digital Built Environment (20 Credits)
This module will develop your digital communications skills and understanding.
You will be introduced to cutting-edge digital communication tools and will establish an advanced knowledge of these tools and their usage in built environment sector.
In doing so, you will enrich your ability to choose and apply appropriate communication techniques within a project cycle.
You will also be able to demonstrate your new skills in the design, specification and communication of projects within future learning and professional practice.
DA4044 -
Law for Surveyors (20 Credits)
You will explore topics such as: •	Fundamental British Values, particularly the rule of law •	Introduction to the English Legal System and how the law affects the work of surveyors •	Sources of law, reviewing a case, interpreting legislation, legal research and problem-solving techniques •	Contract Law •	Land law; land ownership, land registration, public and private rights affecting land and adverse possession •	The sale of land; overview of the conveyancing process, different methods of sale including auctions and tenders •	Tort : Negligence, Professional Negligence, Occupiers' liability, nuisance and Trespass •	Landlord and Tenant Law; reading a lease, key lease obligations and remedies for breach of covenant
DA5032 -
Professional Practice 2 (20 Credits)
Building on the learning outcomes of the previous Professional Practice module, in this module you will focus on learning about and reflecting on working with others towards common goals, and gaining an understanding of different techniques for communication and negotiation.
You will learn to identify your own development needs and take appropriate action to meet those needs, actively engaging in an Apprentice-led programme of Continuing Professional Development events.
DA5043 -
Advanced Construction Technology (20 Credits)
You will learn the principles and practical application of building technology used for design and construction of complex and multi-storey buildings.
This will include advanced construction techniques and materials that emphasise the repetitive nature of large-scale construction projects, associated aesthetics and building user-related considerations.
You will explore topics such as: •	Advanced foundation construction, and ground water control.
•	Deep basement excavation, construction and waterproofing.
•	Multi-storey frame construction.
•	Hybrid concrete construction.
•	Diagrid structures.
•	Architecturally Exposed Structural steel (AESS) •	Upper Floor Construction •	External envelope construction.
•	Active and Passive fire protection.
•	Construction technology in civil engineering infrastructure.
•	Sustainability issues.
You will learn how to work both individually and as part of a team to produce technical reports for real building projects.
On completion of the module, your improved ability to link theory, with appraisal and evaluation will serve to enhance your future employability.
DA5044 -
Construction Economics (20 Credits)
In this module you will learn the consultant Quantity Surveyor's role in the development process.
You will learn preparation of cost estimates using preliminary estimating techniques, order of cost estimate and cost plan.
Further, you will explore how to conduct cost checking integration of contemporary software packages compatible with BIM technology and tools.
Moreover, you will discover programming of construction work, management of risk in programming of work and modern software packages in construction programming.
You will explore topics such as: •	Preliminary Estimating •	Order of Cost Estimating •	Cost Planning •	Cost Modelling •	Building Morphology •	Building Information Modelling and 5D BIM •	Risk Management (Programming) •	Programming of Construction Work
DA5041 -
Measurement & Costing (20 Credits)
You will learn about the principles of measurement and costing of construction works and their relationship to the financial control of a project, and learn to apply appropriate methods of measurement of completed works and issue documentation required for payment to specialist contractors and income from the client.
You will explore topics such as: •	The principles of measurement for the quantification of construction works •	The role of Bills of Quantities in the development process •	Simple measurement techniques and software •	Worked examples and practice examples of measurement work •	The role of measurement in costing and valuing project work to facilitate project control
DA5046 -
Construction Law (20 Credits)
You will learn to apply basic principles of the English Law to the administration of construction contracts, the day to day control of contractual procedures and the recognition and avoidance/resolution of disputes should they arise.
The module includes a study of the relevant legislation and case law relating to express provisions of the most common Standard Forms of Construction Contract.
You will also study the detailed workings of various aspects of construction dispute resolution, including Adjudication, Arbitration, Mediation and Litigation.
You will explore topics such as: •	Comparison of Standard Forms •	Letters of Intent •	Retention of Title •	Payment Issues •	Occupiers Liability •	Legal Issues and BIM* Dispute avoidance and resolution •	The role of a surveyor as an Expert •	Professional Liability and Ethics •	Fundamental British Values, particularly the rule of law
DA5047 -
Contract Administration and Practice (20 Credits)
The aim of this module is to build upon and ultimately practice the QS skills introduced to you at level 4.
The common theme of the module will be to develop an understanding of the consultant's (Quantity Surveyor) role in managing or administering the contract between the client (employer) and the contractor on construction projects.
You will be able to undertake (i) pre-contract activities including deciding on the type of procurement route and building contract and examination of priced tender documents and selection of contractors/consultants; and (ii) both agency and decision-making functions following commencement of a construction project.
You will learn to carry out a range of standard contract administrative procedures.
You will explore topics such as: •	Procurement and selection of procurement methods •	Tender Processes including pre-qualification •	Tender Analysis (Examination of priced tender documents) •	Sub-contracting •	Interim Valuations & Payments •	Delays/ Extensions of Time •	Cash Flow Management •	Loss and Expense •	Variations •	Final Account Procedures •	Application of Financial Protection Measures •	Determination •	Retention of Title •	Professional Ethics
DA6031 -
Professional Research Project (40 Credits)
This module is a final test of your maturity and independence as well as of your research skills and intellectual ability and demonstration of your Northumbria Graduate Characteristics.
You will learn to: •	Synthesise disciplinary knowledge and professional experience to identify a quantity surveying challenge in your sector •	Apply appropriate research methods to collate, analyse and interpret research data •	Demonstrate independent thinking and curiosity to identify, develop and justify solutions •	Communicate research findings in the form of an academic journal article or succinct report and oral/visual presentation •	Apply appropriate research ethics and data protection to a professional research project
DA6038 -
Contractual and Financial Management (20 Credits)
In this module, you will explore the requirement for consultants and commercial quantity surveyors to comply with basic accountancy processes and understand key issues such as cash flow and sources of finance.
You will learn how costs are controlled and reported on and the legal constraints.
You will learn to create balance sheets, profit and loss accounts and business plans.
You will become able to defend strategies to control predicted expenditure in line with the budget to the construction team and the client.
You will also become able to appraise the financial standing of companies and assess possible sources of finance and the strategies adopted to manage cash flow and claims.
You will explore topics such as: •	Budgets as a tool for effective project and business control •	Cash flow and how to prepare cash flow forecasts •	Cost Value Reconciliation (CVR) •	Earned Value Analysis (EVA) •	Project forecasting as a tool for effective project and business control •	The importance of record keeping •	Estimating for Tendering •	Accounts including sources of finance and cash flow •	Quality Planning and Management
DA6039 -
Planning and Management (20 Credits)
This module will develop your knowledge and understanding of the aspects of the planning and management of projects and its role in adding competitive advantage to your organisation.
Specifically, you will gain a firm grounding in the principles, processes, tools and techniques that underpin planning and management.
You will explore topics such as: •	Project planning, programme and portfolio management concepts •	Bodies of Knowledge and methodologies •	Life cycle, principles and processes •	Scheduling, budgeting and cash flow •	Earned value management •	Project and programme organisation structures and roles •	Risk management •	Role of the project / programme support office •	Management of projects using contemporary software packages compatible with BIM technology and related tools
DA6040 -
Advanced Measurement (20 Credits)
You will be introduced to advanced concepts in the quantification of building and civil engineering works and the development of detailed cost models.
You will be provided with worked and practice-based examples of measurement work and the application of building and civil engineering rules of measurement.
You will also develop throughout this module numeracy skills relating to the use and evaluation of data and communication skills using accepted industry terminology.
You will explore topics such as: •	Basic measurement technique [recapitulation] •	The information structures of NRM2 and CESMM4 •	Earthworks •	In situ concrete works •	Piling works •	Pipework
DA6041 -
Professional Practice 3 (20 Credits)
The module aims to facilitate the assessment of work-based learning as part of your academic programme in order to promote professional and personal development enhance interpersonal skills and reinforce Fundamental British Values.
It will help to prepare you for the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) Assessment of Professional Competence (APC).
You will look at the RICS Mandatory Competencies, select the RICS Core Competencies applicable to the RICS APC Pathway that you have chosen, and reflect on the experience you have.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-chemistry-extended-degree-uusxhy1:
Are you passionate about chemistry?
Do you have an intellectual curiosity and a thirst for knowledge?
A Chemistry degree at Northumbria provides you with a required foundation in core chemistry.
It supplies a range of options including:
A final year research project will cement your learning, giving you the knowledge, independent critical-thinking, and problem-solving skills needed to become a well-rounded chemist.
Alongside the opportunity to gain hands-on practical experience in our state-of-the-art laboratories, you will learn from our research-active team of academic staff comprising leaders in a range of research fields.
This degree will provide you with the knowledge, independent critical thinking, and problem-solving skills needed to become a well-rounded chemist.
The degree will thoroughly prepare you for a career in the chemical industry or academia and will equip you with skills applicable in a wide range of fields.
This course is accredited by the RSC.
It partially fulfils the academic requirements for Chartered Chem (CChem).
See other similar courses you may be interested in: Biomedical Science BSc , Forensic Science BSc
• Northumbria is ranked top 20 in the UK for Chemistry studies (Times Good University Guide, 2025).
• Small class sizes: get to know your tutors and
academic staff.
• Guaranteed lab-based research project.
• Hands on use of modern analytical and research equipment to enhance your
employability.
• Option for industrial placement with help to apply.
• Get involved in real cutting-edge chemistry research during your research
project.
• Diverse subject coverage including analytical chemistry, recyclable
plastics and materials, medicinal chemistry, computational chemistry and more...
• City centre location.
UCAS Code Z044
We believe in the benefits of hands-on study which is why a large proportion of your time will be spent in our state-of-the-art laboratories, developing a wide range of practical skills.
These practical sessions are complemented by seminars, lectures, tutorials and IT sessions to cement your theoretical knowledge of the subject.
You will also take part in problem-solving workshops which will develop your analytical and critical thinking skills.
There is the opportunity to spend a year in industry where you can develop your knowledge and gain valuable work experience to give you a head start in your chosen career.
Regular formative assessment enables you to develop your knowledge and skills and to continually reflect on your performance.
By the end of your degree you will have developed the ability to study independently and mastered both research and practical skills, culminating in a major laboratory-based research project in the final year.
You will learn from experienced staff at the forefront of their fields, with all teaching staff in the Department of Applied Sciences educated to PhD level.
Most academic staff are research active and this knowledge is reflected in their teaching.
Staff have an open-door policy meaning they are on hand to provide any guidance that you might need.
Many of our teaching team have previously worked in higher education, research and industry, including at organisations such as Unilever, the John Innes Centre, Roche Products Ltd, and are able to draw on real world experience to keep their teaching current and industry relevant.
As members of professional bodies such as the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC) and the Higher Education Academy (HEA), the chemistry team have excellent international links, collaborating with others across the globe in pursuit of ground-breaking advances in chemistry.
Renli Ma
Valery Kozhevnikov
Working in our modern laboratories, complete with industry standard equipment, you will learn and develop a range of practical skills in an authentic research environment.
You will also develop specific computational chemistry skills, working with sophisticated professional software in our IT suites.
All Northumbria students also benefit from Technology Enabled Learning (TEL) which provides online access to module information, key texts, assessment briefs and a range of teaching-related materials.
A complete list of facilities can be found here .
At Northumbria we take a research-led approach to education.
As practicing researchers, the majority of our lecturers’ research interests link chemistry to the real world.
Learning from those at the cutting-edge of the subject will help you put what you have learnt into context both in the laboratory and the lecture theatre.
We will also support you to develop your own research skills.
The final year research project will enable you to develop your own area of specialism.
You will be matched with a staff member who has experience in your chosen subject and together you will work closely on a substantial piece of research.
For some of our previous students, this has led to publication in national and international scientific journals.
The project will also enhance your skills in areas such as decision-making, team-working, critical analysis, communication, and the ability to study independently, all of which are in demand by employers or are an excellent foundation for continuing on to a PhD.
A programme of regular Chemistry seminars delivered by researchers at the University is open to all of our undergraduate students, providing an opportunity to hear about ongoing research within the department.
Find out what our Applied Sciences students and staff are taking part in and achieving.
At Northumbria, our degrees are designed to make you as employable as possible.
As well as graduating with a respected degree, this course is accredited by the Royal Society of Chemistry, it partially fulfils the academic requirements for Chartered Chem (CChem).
This Chemistry course also provides the opportunity to spend a year in industry where you can gain first-hand experience of the world of work.
Not only will this enable you to ‘test’ your chosen career, but you will develop valuable skills such as teamwork, communication, and time-management.
The practical experience gained through your placement year will complement the learning theory and strengthen your CV.
You can boost your employability with short work placements, study abroad, STEM ambassador activities or volunteering.
You will graduate from the BSc Chemistry course with the applied knowledge, strong practical laboratory skills and research skills needed to enter a career in the chemical and pharmaceutical industries or continue on to PhD study.
Throughout the course you will also develop transferable skills appreciated by employers in general, not only in traditional chemistry roles.
You will cultivate the ability to think analytically, develop excellent problem-solving, logic and critical thinking skills, and an eye for detail.
Previous Northumbria graduates have found employment in areas as diverse as teaching, business and management, finance, law and marketing.
There is also the opportunity to transfer onto the Chemistry MChem course at Northumbria.
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Chemistry.
AP0414 -
Elements of Physical Chemistry (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about the physical aspects of chemistry through a study of topics in • the gas laws, • equilibria, • acid/base reactions, • electrochemistry, • phase equilibria, • basic reaction kinetics, • thermodynamics.
Because much of this material requires a solid mathematical understanding it will be supported by the treatment of the essential numerical methods (units, statistics, algebra, trigonometry, geometry and calculus).
You will also extend your learning in physical chemistry through physical chemistry practical laboratory experiments.
These experiments will involve spectrophotometry and conductivity/pH measurements.
You will apply aspects of the physical chemistry theory and numerical methods to the handling and interpretation of data that you obtain from these experiments.
AP0416 -
Academic Skills for Chemistry (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about how to get the most out of the state-of-the-art computing facilities at Northumbria, and how to navigate the University’s eLearning Portal (eLP).
You will learn study skills such as how to search the scientific literature, time management, and communication skills in how to report your discoveries, along with employability skills such as producing a CV and how to make your application stand out.
This module serves as an introductory laboratory module where you will learn and develop a range of basic laboratory skills necessary to further study, research and a professional environment, and these will form the basis for more advanced laboratory procedures to follow in later years.
AP0527 -
Physical Chemistry (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about intermolecular forces, the hydrophobic effect, the behaviour of surfactants, the laws of thermodynamics and how they influence the chemical world around us.
You will be introduced to the theory of kinetics and applications from acid/base catalysis through to the cycles in play for the destruction of the ozone layer in our atmosphere.
You will learn the theory of spectroscopy and its application to practical spectroscopy, as well as covering synthetic photochemistry.
You will use your knowledge to carry out a series of practical experiments designed to illustrate the concepts you learn in the lectures.
AP0528 -
Inorganic Chemistry (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will learn about some of the key theoretical aspects of the chemistry of inorganic compounds primarily focusing on those containing metal atoms essential to their properties, function and application.
You will also explore aspects of this chemistry via laboratory experimentation and thus continue to hone higher level practical skills that are applicable later in the programme and in research and industrial settings.
Key theoretical topics that will be explored will include: ?Structure and bonding in inorganic and coordination complexes: Crystal-and Ligand Field theories, molecular orbital approaches, symmetry, properties and uses/application occurrence in nature and industry ?Organometallic Chemistry: the border between organic and inorganic chemistry, structural classification and electron counting approaches, hapticity and hydrocarbon and p-acceptor ligands, properties and applications of organometallic compounds and an introduction to catalysis.
?Mechanistic Inorganic chemistry, the definitions and language of mechanistic inorganic chemistry, reaction types and classifications, the experimental evidence for mechanistic theory, rates or reaction, lability and inertness, solvent assistance, structure activity relationships.
Allied to this will be an evolving selection of investigational laboratory sessions aimed at illustrating concepts of the lecture programme and developing both higher level practical and academic skills.
You will also learn and reflect upon the fact that skills and techniques developed previously in the programme and in another contexts can translate into new areas.
Example experiments include investigations into: ?The synthesis and characterisation of metal acetylacetonato complexes ?Isomerism and isomerisation in coordination complexes ?Sterospecificity in coordination complex reactions ?Organometallic chemistry: Ferrocene and its acetylation, inert atmosphere techniques.
?Equlibria in reactions of coordination complexes ?Supramolcular complexes of iron
AP0530 -
Chemical Information Science (Core,20 Credits)
On this module, you will develop three important skills; •You will learn how to use computers for research in chemistry.
This includes not only how to run advanced database searches to find chemical information, but also how computer programs can be used to analyse data, including quantum mechanical and statistical methods, and make sophisticated predictions about chemical properties.
•You will learn how to become an independent, creative and critical thinker.
Although you will develop these skills within the particular ‘Chemical Information Science’ context of this module, you will find them useful in many other areas of life, from troubleshooting and problem solving to being able to spot poor and/or incorrect science in popular news feeds.
•You will learn how to effectively communicate with other scientists, by presenting your ideas and results to a professional level and by learning how to identify, summarise and present essential scientific information and ideas.
AP0531 -
Applied Chemistry (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about the application of chemistry to a range of sectors including the process industry and the pharmaceutical/biotech sectors.
You will explore the process of applying the fundamental principles of core chemistry to specific industrial, environmental or research problems.
Illustrative themes include: •Drug design, applications and mechanisms of actions: applications in the pharmaceutical sector •Chemical process development: synthesis of fine and commodity chemicals, polymer and materials synthesis.
•Chemical analysis of the environment: elemental analysis, the process of analysing a contamination in an environment • Industrial application: based on a Chemistry Clinic approach where the student as part of their practical work for the module will work on a real-world problem proposed by external sources Out of the range of topics available, you will be able to chose a subset of them (those which most interest you) to be assessed on.
AP0623 -
Advanced Organic and Inorganic Chemistry (Core,20 Credits)
This module will build on your learning from the previous two years in organic and inorganic chemistry.
You will learn more advanced concepts, reactions and mechanisms that are essential knowledge in modern chemistry-based industry and research.
This module will cover aspects both organic and inorganic chemistry at a molecular level.
In organic chemistry, you will learn and become proficient in: ?Modern synthetic tools geared towards the synthesis of modern chemicals such as therapeutic agents.
For example, you will learn about - the involvement of orbitals in organic reactions and of - the involvement of reactive species in molecular transformation.
?You will also acquire advanced knowledge in synthetic techniques that are a cornerstone of modern chemistry in the workplace, for example - the use of organometallic chemistry, - the methods to synthesise asymmetric molecules and - the planning of efficient synthetic strategies.
In inorganic chemistry, you will learn about the role metal-based molecules play in a biological system and about the increasingly important role that metal-based molecules play in industry.
For example, you will learn about ?bioinorganic chemistry, i.e.
the involvement of inorganic chemistry in enzymes as key components of any living organism.
?the ‘rarer’ metals (in the d and f blocks) in modern industry and catalysis (used from gram scale to ton scales).
?the reactivity of metal-based molecules, concepts that are at the core of their function in catalysis and in medical systems.
AP0624 -
Advanced Physical and Polymer Chemistry (Core,20 Credits)
Building upon your knowledge of physical and organic chemistry you will learn about a number of topics that are of great importance in the chemistry of consumer products and current research.
These headline topics are: • Spectroscopy • Liquids, colloids and surfactants • Crystals and liquid crystals • Polymers Particular emphasis will be placed on polymer chemistry due to its importance in industry and you will study both the physical aspects of polymers as well as their synthesis using organic and organometallic chemistry.
Natural Product and Medicinal Chemistry (Optional,20 Credits)
AP0626 -
Advanced Instrumental and Structural Methods (Optional,20 Credits)
You will learn about the theory, instrumentation, application and practice of a range of advanced analytical techniques for both quantitative determination and qualitative characterisation.
These are key analytical tools utilised extensively in both research and industry.
Topics will be chosen from the following: - Liquid and gas chromatography - Capillary and gel electrophoresis - Mass spectrometry - Ultraviolet-visible spectroscopy - Infrared spectroscopy - Raman spectroscopy - Multi-nuclear and multi dimensional nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy - Laser induced fluorescence spectroscopy - Circular Dichroism - X-ray absorption spectroscopy - X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy - Scanning tunnelling microscopy and atomic force microscopy - Computational spectroscopic methods - Protein analysis - Forensic and pharmaceutical drugs - Volatile organic compounds - Bioinorganic compounds -Surfaces (imaging) Analytical method development and validation as well as sampling protocols will also be studied.
AP0627 -
Theoretical and Computational Methods (Optional,20 Credits)
This module builds on your knowledge gained in earlier modules from across the subject area and demonstrates how computational and calculated approaches and techniques can be used to probe theoretical models in chemistry and be used to aid experimental design and the understanding of their outcomes.
This module will provide you with a solid background and practical skills in advanced theoretical and computational methods in chemistry.
You will build on your knowledge of quantum chemistry, covering electronic structure methods such as Hartree-Fock based methods and Density Functional Theory (DFT).
You will gain practical computational skills to optimize molecular structures, localize transition states, calculate a range of spectral properties, and how to study reaction mechanisms using multiple software packages.
You will also gain a solid understanding in molecular mechanics methods which utilize classical laws of physics and are much faster and applicable for treating very large molecules such as solvated proteins or embedded proteins on the membrane surface.
In addition, you will learn about molecular docking approaches and cover how machine-learning approaches complement more traditional computational methods.
AP0630 -
Chemistry Research Project (Core,40 Credits)
This module comprises the research project for level 6 of the MChem and BSc Hons Chemistry programmes.
It is 40 credit module and aims to utilize the student’s subject specific skills up to the point their project begins, both in terms of knowledge and laboratory skills.
It will enable you to identify and define a research topic in a chosen field of study, to plan a strategy for its implementation (in conjunction with an appointed supervisor) and to be responsible for its implementation.
It will engender a spirit of enquiry and curiosity in both practical and theoretical aspects of the topic.
It will develop your information retrieval and critical appraisal skills, and encourage and require you to apply knowledge gained in other parts of the academic programme.
It will enable you to develop the ability to evaluate experimental methods and data, and to provide the means to present findings and data in oral, poster, and written formats, and enable you to develop and practise skills relating to word-processing, spreadsheets, and other scientific and IT software packages and methods.
It will teach you the definition of originality in terms of both reporting research and in generation of intellectual property and patentable ideas

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/chemistry-uuschy1:
UCAS Code F110
Applicants will need Grade B in A-level Chemistry, or a recognised equivalent.
You may be required to print some documents but this should be no more than £10 per academic year.
Textbooks: copies of mandatory texts are available in the University Library, and many are electronic access free to students.
If a student wishes to buy a personal copy, we advise on one general Chemistry textbook to supplement the entire course, approximate cost £60.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/chemistry-uusmch1:
The MChem course follows the path of the BSc Chemistry degree, with an additional year-long research project in the 4th year alongside additional final year modules focussing on cutting edge research fields.
The additional year provides significant further laboratory experience and opportunities to apply your knowledge from the first 3 years of the course.
It fulfils the academic requirements for Chartered Chem (CChem).
Northumbria is ranked top 20 in the UK for Chemistry studies (Times Good University Guide, 2025)
Small class sizes: get to know your tutors and academic staff
Get involved in real cutting-edge chemistry research during your
    research project
Diverse subject coverage including analytical chemistry, recyclable
    plastics and materials, medicinal chemistry, computational chemistry and
    more...
See other similar courses you may be interested in: BSc Chemistry
UCAS Code F101
Engaging with Business
Working in collaboration with industry
Applied Sciences Research
Find out more about our research and innovation units.
By the end of your degree you will have developed the ability to study independently and mastered research skills through undertaking two major research projects, which can be tailored to reflect your interests and career aspirations.
A minimum of 40% of the curriculum is centred on laboratory- or computer-based experimentation.
This access to modern instrumental techniques will play a key role in your professional development.
Many of our teaching team have previously worked in higher education, research and industry, including at organisations such as Unilever, the John Innes Centre and Roche Products Ltd, and are able to draw on real world experience to keep their teaching current and industry relevant.
All Northumbria students also benefit from technology enabled learning (TEL) which provides online access to module information, key texts, assessment briefs and a range of teaching-related materials.
The two research projects in the MChem will enable you to develop your own areas of specialism.
In each project you will be matched with a staff member who has experience in your chosen subject and together you will work closely on a substantial piece of research.
The projects will also enhance your skills in areas such as decision-making, team-working, critical analysis, communication, and the ability to study independently, all of which are in demand by employers or are an excellent foundation for continuing on to a PhD.
As well as graduating with a respected degree, this course is accredited by the Royal Society of Chemistry, it fulfils the academic requirements for Chartered Chem (CChem).
The MChem course also provides the opportunity to spend a year in industry where you can gain first-hand experience of the world of work.
You can also boost your employability with short work placements, study abroad, STEM ambassador activities or volunteering.
You will graduate from the MChem course with extensive experience in practical laboratory work and conducting research projects, equipping you with the skills needed to enter a career in the chemical and pharmaceutical industries or continue on to PhD study.
Your final year will give you experience of producing a research project from first hypothesis right through to publication, and will help you develop skills in communication and team-working.
"Laboratory equipment such as spatula, lab book, marker pens and a scientific calculator are required and should cost no more than £25.
AP0715 -
Current Research in Chemistry (Core,30 Credits)
You will learn about the latest research in chemistry and its impact in industry, society and the environment.
You will explore research topics across inorganic, organic, physical and analytical chemistry and their application to specific industrial, society or environmental problems.
Illustrative themes include: •Advanced Materials: synthesis, evaluation and application •Anti-cancer agents: synthesis and evaluation •Anti-microbial agents: synthesis, evaluation and application •Biocatalysis: design, synthesis and application •Chemical analysis: evaluation, application and risk in the environment •Computational approaches to chemistry problems
AP0716 -
MChem Research Project (Core,60 Credits)
This module comprises the research project for level 7 of the MChem.
It is 60 credit module and aims develop to a high level your • portfolio of research skills • accumulated knowledge in a chosen specialist area • advanced investigational and experimental laboratory (or computational skills) and problem solving • communication skills and the ability to report and explain scientific findings to an expert audience and to a professional standard.
• personal and professional attributes in terms of creativity and innovation, time-management and organisational skills, and the ability to work productively and safely independently or with limited direct supervision You will identify and define a research topic in a chosen field of study, plan a strategy for its implementation (in conjunction with an appointed supervisor) and to be responsible for its implementation.
It will engender a spirit of enquiry in both practical and theoretical aspects of the topic towards information retrieval and critical appraisal skills, and encourage you to apply knowledge gained in other parts of the academic programme.
It will enable you to develop the ability to evaluate experimental methods and data, and to provide the means whereby the you can present findings and data in oral, poster, and written formats, and enable you to develop and practice skills relating to word-processing, spread-sheets, and other scientific and IT software packages and methods.
At this level you will be expected make a personal contribution to the subject area, by demonstrating and acting upon curiosity, be personally responsible for the project direction and methodologies
AP0731 -
Heterocyclic, Bioconjugate and Green Chemistry (Core,30 Credits)
Your learning on this module will be centred on its three themes; • Heterocyclic chemistry; you will learn about the synthesis, properties, chemical reactivities and applications of heterocycles.
• Bioconjugate chemistry; you will learn about the applications of bioconjugate and biorthogonal chemistry in bioimaging and therapeutics • Green chemistry; you will learn about the design, principles and applications of green chemical processes.
The basis of this learning will be centred on the study and critical appraisal of modern research texts and articles in the three sub topics.
You will learn to extract and critique key aspects of the material and develop your communication and professional skills by presenting and discussing your findings and proposals to the student cohort in both verbal and written formats.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ma-childhood-and-early-year-studies-dtfcew6:
The socio-cultural, economic and political contexts in which we live shape who we are.
It is often argued that childhood is a social construction, but the role of space and place in shaping children’s everyday lives is not always understood.
This course will provide a deep understanding and knowledge of children's rights and the lived realities of children's diverse experiences.
You will explore ideologies and examine how today's society impacts children to help discover ways to change their experiences for the better.
The course is aimed at those from any undergraduate background with an interest or specialist need to advance their knowledge in Childhood and Early Years.
This MA provides a robust theoretical framework enabling you to develop an integrated understanding of study in this area.
Whether you are a lawyer working with children, an architect designing a children's space - this course covers a variety of internal and external factors that affect children from political and social contexts to how children use media and culture.
Our interdisciplinary course has a strong emphasis on social sciences and humanities and includes perspectives drawn from sociology, developmental psychology, social policy, geography, cultural studies, literature and anthropology.
The course encourages reflection on the principles of promoting the rights and interests of all children and young people globally; understanding the diversity of experiences in childhood and youth; and the importance of encouraging children and young people's participation in decisions and debates about their lives.
The course also encourages an understanding and application of a range of pedagogical theories and practice and how they experience social differences and inequalities or develop a sense of belonging.
On our MA in Childhood and Early Years Studies you will be guided by tutors who will encourage you to assume responsibility for developing your understanding of the subject.
You will work individually and collectively to develop and share your new understandings through reading, discussions, and assessment activities.
This critical learning process is an important part of your development on this course involving you engaging with your peers and tutors, so ensuring you will be supported and encouraged.
As this interdisciplinary course looks at the child holistically, you'll be taught by a team of research active academics from a range of professional and academic backgrounds.
Members of our team have previously worked in statutory, voluntary, and private organisations in early years, education, youth work, health, libraries, childcare guidance and counselling.
This means that your learning will be led by real world experience and so you'll understand the practical realities of children's lives, not just the theory.
All members of the team engage in research as well as teaching.
Some current research interests include; attachment informed practice in childhood settings, inclusive practice in schools, and the use of animals in therapeutic environments for children and young people.
Staff are also active in presenting their work at conferences at home and abroad and publishing their research.
These are the academics who will be teaching this course
Dr Charmaine Agius Ferrante
Dr Lucy Grimshaw
Dr Tom Disney
You will have access to broad range of learning resources including lectures, seminars and skills workshops directly informed by practitioner and service user perspectives.
The course is based in our state-of-the-art facilities at our Coach Lane Campus.
You will have access to our University Library and well-equipped working space, The Hub, which is open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
Technology is embedded throughout all aspects of your degree, and you will receive ongoing support through our innovative e-learning platform, Blackboard, where you can access module handbooks, assessment information, lecture presentations and reading lists.
Visit an Open Day to find out about life in Newcastle, tour our facilities and chat to staff and students
Research-rich learning is central to our postgraduate education courses.
We have designed this course to equip you with critical and independent enquiry skills that will last a lifetime.
You will develop skills in collaborative working, discipline-specific creativity and project management.
You will be encouraged to examine, compare and contrast different world views.
You will examine key theories and concepts and enrich your understanding of these through critical discussion with your peers, colleagues and lecturers.
All of this will feed into your own independent research project towards the end of the course, during which you can draw on our academics’ wide-ranging expertise.
This course is aimed at those from a wide range of professional backgrounds who have a genuine interest and passion for making a difference to children’s lives.
The course is an excellent launch pad to any career in the field of Childhood and Early Years.
You will graduate with knowledge of the very latest in research, policy and practice.
You will gain a new perspective on data and evaluation which will help to put you at the forefront of your field.
You will also be able to reflect upon and challenge your own practice, a valuable skill to demonstrate to future employers.
The broad appeal of this course will see those graduating looking to work at senior management level in areas such as social policy, local authority, planning, law or social work, amongst many others.
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree in any subject, or a postgraduate or professional qualification.
If you have studied a non-UK qualification, you can see how your qualifications compare to the standard entry criteria, by selecting the country that you received the qualification in, from our country pages.
PP7005 -
Critical Childhoods (Core,30 Credits)
Critical Childhoods will look at the conceptual, political, and social contexts children and young people experience.
You will be encouraged to take a critical and reflective approach to analyse the ways in which these broader contexts shape childhoods.
The module is interdisciplinary drawing from Social Sciences, Humanities and Law.
Specifically, by the end of the module you will be able to: 1.
Critically analyse and demonstrate an understanding of childhood and young people in a range of contexts.
Demonstrate a theoretical understanding of the interdisciplinary nature of childhood in different social, cultural educational contexts around the world.
Apply the relevant theory to current policy and practice within organisations working with children and young people.
4.
Demonstrate a critical understanding of childhood as a social construction and children and young people as social actors.
PP7006 -
Diverse Childhoods: Identities and Inequalities (Core,30 Credits)
Diverse Childhoods: Identities and Inequalities will explore the lives of children and their experiences in relation to disability, sexuality, gender, race, ethnicity, socio economic status.
Diversity matters as it may have an impact upon how groups and individual children are understood by society, contributing to dominant and emergent discourses about youth and childhood.
Further, the module will look at the ways in which children are marginalised and discriminated against in society.
The module will also look at institutions where some of these issues are encountered.
The module, for instance, will draw open theories of feminism, critical disability studies, critical race theory and critical childhood studies theory.
Equally, it will focus on oppressive and anti-oppressive practice.
This module aims to introduce and critically reflect on theories of inequalities in the wider context of childhood studies.
You will critical policy and practice focused on enabling the inclusion of all children and young people.
You will also consider the lived experiences of children drawn from empirical work and the way the gap between rhetoric and experience is negotiated.
PP7007 -
Research Methods, Approaches and Skills (Core,30 Credits)
This module provides the underpinning skills and knowledge necessary to undertake independent research in Childhood and Early Years Studies at Level 7.
It will give you the opportunity to develop practical and theoretical skills in the use and understanding of different research paradigms, methodological approaches and their associated research methods.
You will also develop an in-depth understanding of related issues, including but not restricted to, research ethics, data management and analysis, the use conceptual frameworks and how to engage critically with the literature.
This will provide you with a framework to critique and question research, policy and practice and their impact on children and young people.
Drawing on this, you will be able to develop a research proposal which addresses contemporary issues in Childhood and Early Years Studies, drawing on relevant research literature in order to analyse and justify your methodological approach.
You will also be supported to explore subject based literature in order to support your identification and exploration of a research question.
PP7009 -
Learning and Playful Pedagogies (Optional,30 Credits)
Learning and Playful Pedagogies will introduce you to and develop your understanding and application of a range of pedagogical theories and practice.
You will critically examine the five major pedagogical approaches: (i) Constructivist; (ii) Collaborative; (iii) Integrative; (iv) Reflective; (v) Inquiry Based Learning.
Building on these you will explore and reflect upon social and critical pedagogies within the context of professional practice and organisations where we find children including education (primary, secondary, further and higher education), social care, community development and health.
The module aim is to explore how to actively engage children and young people in their learning to promote values of participation, autonomy, interdependency and inclusion.
PP7010 -
Spaces and Places of Childhood (Optional,30 Credits)
Paying attention to how social constructions of childhood are simultaneously spatial constructions is central to critically understanding how certain processes and phenomena contribute to children and young people’s marginalisation and exclusion or facilitate their inclusion and wellbeing in society.
In this module you will explore diverse socio-spatial processes across a range of environments and contexts.
Through your enhanced understanding of children and young people’s relationship to place, this module will enable you to analyse how they experience social differences and inequalities or develop a sense of belonging.
Alongside this there is an aspect of the module that enables you to acquire and become proficient in creative methodologies to critically analyse the diverse socio-spatial contexts of children and young’s people everyday lives, presenting their voices in unique and important ways to key policy actors and practitioners.
There are a number of key socio-spatial issues of childhood that will be examined throughout the module, such as health inequalities, therapeutic landscapes, place and wellbeing, gentrification and social exclusion.
On completion of the module, you will have the capacity to articulate creative enquiry around the role of space and place in the everyday lives of children and young people.
PP7011 -
Childhood and Early Years Studies Dissertation Project (Core,60 Credits)
Building on the Research Methods Approaches and Skills Module this module will increase your understanding and skills.
This module will build on your knowledge, understanding and application of key ideas, perspectives and activities in social research relevant to Childhood and Early Years.
You will develop further knowledge and understanding about what and how things can be ‘known’ (epistemology), ways of seeing the world (paradigms), approaches and traditions in research (methodology), collecting or generating data (methods) and analysing or interpreting findings (analysis).
You will develop a critical understanding of how to relate each of these elements to enable you to carry out independent research and write your dissertation project.
You will also learn about research ethics and protocols.
Indeed, the focus of this module is a small-scale independent research project which students undertake with the support of an experienced academic research supervisor.
You will be supported to develop an appropriate project which may be based on empirical data (quantitative or qualitative or mixed methods), work-based reflections, evaluations, case study or literature based.
RW7001 -
Academic Language Skills (ALS) for PG Social Work, Education and Community Wellbeing Students (Core – for International and EU students only,0 Credits)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-childhood-and-early-years-studies-extended-degree-uufxes1:
Placement
Northumbria University's Childhood and Early Years degree is designed to help you make a difference in the lives of children.
You'll gain knowledge, insight and understanding of a range of issues relating to childhood, children, young people and society.
Covering topics including child development, education, war, poverty, health, disability, the law, you'll analyse the contemporary experience of children, looking at the latest research, historical documents, children's literature and film, and a range of other sources.
This understanding will open up a range of employment opportunities and provide a foundation to go on and study further training courses including teaching, social work, children's nursing and other related professions.
You will reflect upon current developments in childhood provision, policy and practice both nationally and internationally, and you'll be learning from staff who are contributing to the most important debates in the field.
When you graduate, you'll be able to relate everything you learn back to practice, and you'll have undertaken a minimum of 50 hours practical work related experience, which will support you in moving into a profession of your choice.
Student Rated - 100% of students studying Childhood and Early Years Studies at Northumbria believed their course positively challenged them to achieve their best work (NSS, 2025).
Other courses you may be interested in: Primary Education BA (Hons)
It includes a foundation year where you will explore a wide range of topics relating to health, education and social care.
In the foundation year, you will establish a solid foundation in key debates, theory, and practice, while developing research skills relevant to health, education, and social care.
You will deepen your understanding of the broader factors influencing health, education, and social care, and will learn the necessary skills to advance to the degree level.
UCAS Code Z072
Mode of Study 4 years Full Time
Within this department, over half of our research in Social Work and Education has been rated as world leading or internationally excellent.
Workforce Development
Partners and Collaborations
Research and Knowledge Exchange
You’ll learn to become self-sufficient on this course, but there is a range of support in your learning process.
Your support network starts with the staff.
They’ll provide different ways of learning to inspire you and keep you progressing: from seminars to problem-solving exercises, lectures to real-world case studies.
You’ll be encouraged to think from a global perspective.
A lot of the issues we’ll discuss require a global response.
You’ll get a broader worldview, and can even study a portion of your course overseas.
Before the start of year two you can apply for a funded position to study in Europe via an Erasmus+ exchange programme for one semester, or indeed the academic year.
There are also opportunities to attend two week self-funded programme of study at Malmo University in Sweden.
You’ll learn from your fellow students.
There are opportunities for you to work collaboratively in teams, and you’ll be there for each other.
Giving constructive criticism to your peers will help you to reflect upon your own academic and personal development.
You will also get the chance to hear from visiting speakers and specialist practitioners, to support your learning and give you perspectives from industry experts.
You will demonstrate progressively complex levels of analysis throughout the three years of the course.
You'll be taught by a team of research active academics from a range of professional and academic backgrounds.
Members of our team have previously worked in statutory, voluntary and private organisations in Early Years, Education, Youth Work, Health, Childcare Guidance and counseling.
This means that your learning will be led by real world experience.
You'll understand the practical realities of children's lives, not just the theory.
This understanding will make your move into the professional world much easier.
Staff are also active in presenting their work at conferences at home and abroad.
Our team also engage in research relating to your teaching and learning experience on the course, so they're able to bring the latest information into the classroom.
We are an enthusiastic, committed, knowledgeable and likeable staff team, who are here to motivate you and propel you through your degree and beyond.
Dr Ian Roboson
Justine Gallagher
William McGovern
We’ve harnessed a range of technological innovations to ensure materials for learning are always available to you, accessible via a range of devices.
The University’s E-Learning Portal gives you the information you need at your fingertips, wherever you are.
We also use video recording of material as well as discussion groups to share with fellow students and develop your own learning.
Just a few miles from the city centre lies Coach Lane Campus; a modern, multi-million pound complex.
Here you'll find lecture theatres, teaching rooms and study spaces to support students in every aspect of learning.
Campus Maps
Coach Lane Campus
At the heart of each Northumbria campus, our libraries provide a range of study spaces and technology to suit every learning style.
On this course you will be encouraged to become an active enquirer and participant in your own learning.
You’ll be tackling some of the biggest questions we have in our society.
Research rich learning is important because it gives you a way of thinking that’s designed to face big questions.
You’ll learn how to approach a difficult problem.
How to think critically.
How to be independent, unbiased and rigorous.
As active researchers, our staff can support you in this way of thinking.
Their research specialisms include: institutional care for young children, child development, leadership and staff development in childhood settings, inclusive practice, children’s literature and youth culture.
Learn more about our research expertise here.
This course provides a sound foundation from which to progress professional training courses including teaching, social work, children’s nursing and other related professions.
You’ll develop workplace skills, and find out more about different professions, through observational fieldwork visits and work placements.
You’ll also get the chance to engage with a range of employers, alumni and external agencies.
This gives you a wide network of contacts, and ensures that you know your chosen role is right for you.
In your second year, you will undertake a minimum of 50 hours practical work related experience.
This will get you used to the professional environment, and develop your practical skills.
The course is designed to allow you to undertake opportunities to study and work abroad during year two.
You will get a global perspective on the issues facing children, which is enormously attractive to employers.
When you graduate, there are a range of careers you will be able to pursue.
Social care roles, research into child development, teaching - the course is in line with Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) guidance, which is the benchmark for the industry and respected in all of these professions.
If you enjoy this research element of the course, the course is great first step into a research career.
In any of these roles, you’ll leave the course with real-world experience, a deep understanding of childhood, a global perspective and network of support and contacts.
Discover our postgraduate study options in child care and consider our MSc in Childrens Nursing Science .
Visit an open day to get an insight into what it's like to study Childhood and Early Year Studies.
Please note: Progression from Year 0 to Year 1 of this programme is subject to a suitable DBS Enhanced Certificate.
You will be contacted directly during the first year of the Extended Degree programme (Year 0) to complete this process.
PP3000 -
Becoming a Professional (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will explore concepts of becoming a professional working in public services .
You will also engage with and understand the nature of, and challenges to, professional practice.
You will also consider aspects of communication between professional groups focussing on such things as the use of “professional language” and professional/service user interactions.
The aim of this module is to explore the potential and current issues in developing our own professional practice in health, social care, and education.
This will include you considering examples of the historical development of current professions to understand their influence on collective and individual identities including issues of professional identity and professional socialisation.
By engaging in exercises which encourage reflection on individual experiences and consider these in terms of concepts from the module and from our changing worlds.
You will explore influencing factors such as political debates and agendas which influence the realities of professional working.
We will explore how professions are perceived, expected, and enacted within society and how these are contrasted against our own interpretations of a professional identity and role.
The impact and influence of ethical considerations on becoming a professional and professional practice will be explored.
PP3001 -
Study Skills (Core,20 Credits)
This module is designed to develop critical thinking along with writing and analytical skills for University study.
You will build the foundation of these skills to enable you to prepare for the challenges of studying in a University learning environment.
It will equip you to learn how to manage your workload including how to read selectively, learn techniques for reading academic texts, understanding how to reference and make useful notes from sources.
Designed to support you to think critically and consider academic theory and how it informs practice, you will examine theory and practice- based public services  Alongside this, you will work on the basic principles of writing academic work and explore academic language and how to understand it; explore the different styles and how to edit and proof-read your own work.
A key academic focus on this module will be to understand the importance of research and evidence-based practice.
You will develop an understanding of quantitative research and qualitative research.
A quantitative method will allow you to test a hypothesis by systematically collecting and understanding data.
Qualitative methods will allow you to explore ideas and experiences in depth.
Throughout the module, you will engage in a wide variety of learning activities to give you the opportunity to gain critical understanding of public service structures and processes.
In addition, you will examine your own personal reflection of your learning and development using self-assessment tools.
PP3002 -
Valuing Self and Others (Core,20 Credits)
This module is designed to meet the needs of public services students with differing experiences across a diverse range of speciality and subject-specific areas.
It will equip you with the knowledge, understanding and insight into why it is important to value yourself, as an individual, and to value others.
Throughout the module, you will engage in a wide variety of learning activities and critically examine aspects of valuing self and others related to personal development, communication and empathy, unconscious bias, health literacy and working in a public service setting as part of a team.
Utilising a SMART model (Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant and Time-Bound), you will demonstrate an understanding of the pathway to becoming a professional and develop and design a pathway that illustrates your long-term goals.
PP3003 -
Human Development in the World (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will explore human development in the world, and how this relates to public services provision in contemporary society.
This module explores development from infancy and toddlerhood, through childhood, adolescence, adulthood and finally death and dying.
The module focuses on 3 core concepts in relation to human development – physical, cognitive and psychosocial.
Arising from these core concepts is a further exploration of beliefs and behaviours  and the impact on engagement with health, education and social care.
You will use this understanding of development across the lifespan to inform your understanding of your chosen onward area of practice.
PP3004 -
Skills for Professional Practice (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will explore communication skills within professional relationships.
This module explores the various roles of professionals, semi-professionals, and non-professionals and how communication, both effective and ineffective, may impact their relationships and roles.
This module also explores the role of multi-agency/disciplinary working, using real life situations to highlight the strengths and limitations of communications within partnership working.
You will be supported to explore the holistic needs of a service user and concepts such as personalisation, empowerment, effective communication, equality and diversity, legislation in the context of practice.
You will reflect upon your own personal experiences and personal values when considering the role and impact of professionals within society.
PP3005 -
Collaborative Project (Core,20 Credits)
The structure of this module has been developed to support your learning journey in Higher Education.
The focus of the group project (showcase presentation) will allow you to continue to cultivate your knowledge, skills and understanding of the essential academic components required for studying at Northumbria University.
The design is student centred and has been developed to incorporate project work linked to the national agenda for public services.
Under the guidance of the module team, you will negotiate a topic relevant to your planned onward undergraduate study field and be supported to identify specific learning opportunities.
In order to promote your learning about the chosen subject area, you will review and evaluate your field of study.
Due to the student led nature of the module, sessions have been designed to provide learners with a platform to employ an independent approach to study.
Students’ will be guided/directed to research, appraise and evaluate a chosen public services related topic, where they will be given the opportunity to analyse and present findings based on best evidence.
The module themes support and consolidate other Foundation Year modules, developing you towards a sound understanding of professionalism in relation to your onward choice of programme field.
The negotiated group project module will provide you with the opportunity to attend seminars, workshops and face to face sessions where you will be supported to explore and develop your independent learning.
It is helpful to note that this module design moves away from the traditional taught lessons.
The group showcase presentation will be the culmination of the Foundation Year programme and will serve not only as an opportunity to demonstrate professional collaborative working through summative assessment, but also a celebratory event to acknowledge the learners journey in preparation for undergraduate study.
PP0419 -
Children's Voices (Core,20 Credits)
In this module your focus will be the ‘voice’ of the child.
You will begin with a consideration of the current status of the child’s voice in policy and practice; you will then be encouraged to consider the challenges of engagement with children and young people in the many professional contexts in which this occurs; this will then lead to an exploration of theoretical approaches to helping which can be utilised to assist with this process.
The module will provide you with the opportunity to begin to debate the status of children and young people in society.
You will also be introduced to helping strategies which can assist practitioners in a range of supporting occupations, to help children and young people to find their voice and make it heard.
PP0420 -
Child Development (Core,20 Credits)
The module aims to provide a broad foundation for the study of child development theories and perspectives, and how these relate to the child’s wider context of family, community and society.
You will be introduced to the breadth of the discipline as well as the language / key terms used in the literature.
Theoretical perspectives on children’s learning and development – physical, cognitive, social, emotional, communication and language, taking into account the holistic nature of child development will be central to your learning on this module.
You will examine a range of issues in relation to the developing child, with emphasis placed on the importance of observation.
Through a range of teaching and learning strategies, you will be encouraged to explain and distinguish between the various theoretical perspectives involved in the study of child development and to identify the role of the adult in providing a safe and inclusive environment.
Key themes around children’s development will be presented including; parental roles, the environment, the role of the professional, observation and assessment.
PP0421 -
Children, Families and Schooling (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will explore the ideas about children and childhood that are constructed and embedded within families and education systems and consider how these might influence who children are, what they know, how they act, and what they become.
You will study how children construct their knowledge and understandings about themselves,others and the world around them within diverse socio-cultural contexts and, indeed,  actively seek to influence these contexts.
The key themes of the module are: culture, diversity, identity and transitions.
During the module you will be encouraged to: critically reflect upon your own experiences; identify, explore and theorise the values and principles underpinning different family styles and educational approaches; and engage productively with contemporary debates.
PP0422 -
Social Policy: Children, Families and Communities (Core,20 Credits)
This module provides you with an introduction to the academic discipline of social policy, its key concepts and analytical frameworks.
Social policy impacts on all of our lives in some way, this module examines the way in which social issues and policies impact on the well-being of children, families and communities in society.
This will be achieved by examining policies that affect children and young people.
Specifically, policies relating to safeguarding will be a key focus.
You will explore how individuals shape and are shaped by policy making and welfare practices as well as how social policy is organised, represented and experienced.
The intention is to open up challenging questions about the policymaking process locally, nationally and globally both in the past and in contemporary society.
The module will cover specific policy areas such as education, health and social care, employment and welfare as well as the development of welfare systems in the UK and Europe.
You will be introduced to key concepts in social policy such as social justice, poverty and inequality.
The module focuses on key perspectives, theories and contemporary issues in relation to children, families, communities and social policy.
It considers questions such as: What is the relationship between children, families and the state?
How are children's lives influenced by social policy?
Why are welfare systems and services different in different countries?
What role does social policy play in supporting children, families and communities?
To what extent are our lives controlled by social policy?
PP0423 -
Approaches to Learning (Core,20 Credits)
This module aims to provide you with formal academic induction across your whole first year of study, introducing you to the academic literacy practices required to perform successfully in higher education.
The module will equip you to become effective, active, independent learners throughout the rest of your degree.
It will enable you to recognise appropriate approaches to study in higher education and begin to develop the academic skills, qualities and competencies expected of students on the programme.
The module has been designed to support you to recognise and debate key concepts of your degree by encouraging you to actively engage in discussion and debate to enable you to make-sense of the subject-curricula and discourse communities of childhood and early years and to develop your own standpoint.
You will also begin to reflect upon your academic and career motivations, be introduced to the Careers and Employment Service and supported to engage in volunteering and other extra-curricular activities to enable you to begin develop key employability skills and attributes.
The module will illuminate how to use, at various points throughout the programme, the expertise and resources on offer in a range of formats via, for instance, the Northumbria Skills framework including Skills Plus.
PP0424 -
Perspectives on Childhood and Youth (Core,20 Credits)
This module will help you begin to explore the concepts of ‘childhood’, ‘youth’ and ‘adulthood’ from personal, historical, and childhood studies perspectives, with a view to questioning the diverse, often contradictory meanings, assumptions, representations, values and attitudes which people - children and adults - attach to these words.
You will reflect deeply on your own standpoint.
You will be introduced to the concept of childhood as a social construction and will become aware of the range of perspectives on childhood, and the related issues, tensions and debates that exist within the field of Childhood Studies.
The module draws particular attention to the process of representing childhood and the ways in which the kinds of language and imagery associated with the idea of ‘the child’ and ‘childhood’ help shape social attitudes and practices towards children.
As you progress through the module you will identify, discuss and explore multiple representations of children and childhood in the contemporary world, for example, in adverts, news items, films and your local environment.
RV5001 -
Academic Language Skills for Nursing, Midwifery and Health; Social Work, Education and Community Wellbeing (Core – for International and EU students only,0 Credits)
PP0538 -
Young People in Society (Core,20 Credits)
Throughout this module you will investigate the social, political, economic and cultural factors that have influenced, and continue to influence, the lives of children and young people in the late 20th and early 21st centuries.
This module will seek to explore the lives of young people through the consideration of a number of pertinent societal issues.
Firstly you will critically analyse the proposition that there is a ‘discourse of difference’ in British society when considering young people.
You will be asked to consider the extent to which young people are considered as ‘other’.
To further develop this theme, the questions of how ‘youth’ is conceptualised within society, and in what ways these concepts are considered negative or positive, will be examined.
A detailed exploration of key cultural, social, political and economic factors will support the informed discussion of these questions.
In particular, the module will focus on the central issues of class, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation and inequality in the context of youth cultures and sub cultures.
PP0539 -
Global Perspectives of Childhood and Youth (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will have the opportunity to investigate childhood and youth within a global context.
The module will adopt a thematic approach to the exploration of issues such as war, work, health, and poverty, offering a range of theoretical perspectives relevant to the global experiences of children and young people across countries and cultures.
You will also explore different research approaches commonly used with children and young people and will therefore have opportunity to explore how knowledge is created, debated and analysed.
Your knowledge will be enhanced through the exploration of ethnographic studies of children and young people’s experiences as well as analysing the impact of social, political and cultural difference on concepts of childhood and youth, whilst gaining a theoretical overview of key skills in data collection and analysis related to research with children and young people.
PP0540 -
Play and the Early Years Curriculum (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about the importance of play and its place in the Early Years Curriculum.
You will explore ideologies and practices as well as contrasting theoretical perspectives and approaches.
In addition you will examine the place given to play within the Early Years Foundation Stage (EYFS) reflecting upon its appropriateness for young children.
By doing so you will be able to identify and reflect upon the different roles that the adult plays in supporting children’s development and learning through play.
You will also differentiate between interaction that is either supportive of, or a hindrance to children’s learning.
You will learn about a variety of philosophical and cultural approaches from UK and abroad reflecting upon their contribution within the field of early years play in relation to the Early Years Curriculum.
The module will address themes such as the social and cultural context of early years play and provision, the history of play, the contested nature of play, definitions and types of play, leading play, risk and the outdoors and exploration of approaches from different ideologies.
PP0541 -
Social and Emotional Wellbeing in Childhood (Optional,20 Credits)
What will I learn on this module?
Building on your knowledge of child and adolescent development from Year 1, this module will help you understand and analyse psychological, psychodynamic and sociological aspects of wellbeing in childhood.
You will explore contrasting ideologies, approaches and theoretical perspectives in relation to the topic.
There will be a particular focus on children's social and emotional wellbeing and on how authentic relationships can support and empower all round growth, learning and development in childhood.
Being interdisciplinary, the module offers you the opportunity to reflect on how professional and personal beliefs, values and attitudes influence how practitioners from different disciplines and different cultures assess wellbeing in childhood, and how this may influence the nature of their working relationships with children and their families.
PP0542 -
Professional Practice and Career Development (Core,20 Credits)
The aim of the module is to provide you with an opportunity to further develop your employability and understanding of contemporary ways of working by participating in employability activities.
You will gain valuable insight e of work settings, explore the roles and responsibilities of professionals and consider some of the challenges and rewards of professional practice, linking to key concepts in Childhood and Early Years Studies.
You will reflect critically upon your experiences and consider how these have informed your career identity and contributed to the development of graduate attributes and employability skills.
Exploring entry routes and requirements of occupations through a range of sources (which may include direct contact with professionals) will further develop your research skills as well as develop and utilise networks to help you to enhance your employability.
You will have the opportunity to undertake a mock interview in which you will be supported to reflect upon and verbally articulate your graduate skills, attributes and values.
PP0543 -
Children, Young people, families and Substance Use (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about yourself, your attitudes and values in the context of children, young people and families and contemporary substance use.
You will be given the opportunity to explore your own and others concerns around different discourses or big ideas about addiction: you will be introduced to a number of different theoretical frames or paradigms that will give you a sound understanding of substance use.
You will also explore in detail some of the main theoretical and empirical ways in which substance use and its impact have been researched and understood by different theorists, in a range of different discipline areas.
You will be invited to explore a broad curriculum of topics and concerns such as policy, myths around addiction, causal factors and determinants of use, safeguarding and parenting, neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS) and foetal alcohol syndrome (FAS), gateway and normalisation, professional competences, as well as different interventions.
You will be taught by a range of academics, service users and service managers during the module.
PP0546 -
Developing Inclusive Practice for Children, Young People & Families (Optional,20 Credits)
You will engage with the key issues around inclusion and inclusive practice, specifically  in terms of the marginalisation of children and their families, who are representative of minority groups, and the role of professionals who support such families.
You will explore topics such as the meaning of inclusion, integration and exclusion specifically in the context of age, gender/sexuality, impairment, poverty, economic capital, ethnicity and culture.
You will also explore issues such as language, labelling and stereotyping and consider the potential benefits of labels in identification of need, risk and resilience factors.
Furthermore you will examine state and organisational responsibility through legislation and policy agenda.
Critically when studying this module you will engage in the process of reflective practice in support of inclusion.
PP0547 -
Researching Childhood and Early Years (Core,20 Credits)
Building on research understanding and skills developed at level 4, this module will introduce you to key ideas, perspectives and activities in social research relevant to childhood and early years.
You will develop knowledge and understanding about what and how things can be ‘known’ (epistemology), ways of seeing the world (paradigms), approaches and traditions in research (methodology), collecting or generating data (methods) and analysing or interpreting findings (analysis).
You will learn about the key research methodological approaches and the methods used within them, going on to evaluate others research work before developing your own questions, methodology and methods.
Finally you will appreciate how to relate each of these elements into a coherent proposal for research and you will consider relevant ethical issues that apply to your research.
This module feeds directly into the level 6 module ‘Childhood and Early Years Studies Project’.
PP0566 -
Promoting Children and Young People's Health (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will encourage you to explore debates about children and young people’s health.
You will make use of a range of reading to develop knowledge and understanding of key theories, policies and areas of practice in relation to the promotion of children and young people’ s health.
You will learn about a range of topics relating to different aspects of children and young people’s health and examine the complexity of health promotion strategies and activities in relation to issues of social inequality.
You will consider the underlying principles and values within, and the historical development of, a range of health promotion strategies, and discuss the inherent tensions in promoting children and young people’s health.
In particular, the module will encourage you to think about how health promotion practices might affect, change and even reimagine the relationships between children, families, practitioners and institutions.
PP0622 -
Childhood & Early Years Studies Project (Core,40 Credits)
Building on research understanding and skills developed throughout your programme and specifically in the level 5 module ‘Researching Childhood and Early Years’, this module will build on your knowledge, understanding and application of key ideas, perspectives and activities in social research relevant to childhood and early years.
In addition, you will develop a critical understanding of how to relate each of these elements into a coherent piece of research.
You will also learn how to conduct research which will be subject to the ongoing ethical scrutiny and protocols of Northumbria University.
PP0623 -
Young Children as Meaning Makers (Core,20 Credits)
This module builds upon your learning of child development theory at levels 4 and 5 and will focus on the young child as a maker and interpreter of meaning.
You will consider the ways in which adults can support or hinder children’s developing skills and the extent to which cultural attitudes and government policy may impact on children’s freedom to express and communicate their feelings and ideas.
It will immerse you in thinking about the development of young children as meaning makers and communicators.
You will be encouraged to explore theoretical approaches to early language and communication and to evaluate critically where appropriate the effectiveness of approaches within current policy and practice to this important area of early child development.
You will also become accomplished in applying your understanding of these perspectives through observations of children as communicators.
Through this experience you will be able to analyse critically a variety of methodological approaches and theoretical stances within this discipline  The module will address themes such as attachment and the importance of early interaction, the environment, the role of the adult, multi model observation techniques observation as a research methodology and report writing for a professional and parent audience
PP0624 -
Leadership and Collaboration in Children's Services (Core,20 Credits)
This module will involve you in thinking about leadership and management in the context of children’s learning, wellbeing and safeguarding in  community based children’s services*.
The module has a particular focus on working with others who can contribute towards better outcomes for children and their families.
It will help you to think about why community based services for children and their families exist, what these services are required to do (with reference to current policy agendas), and how leaders can meet the challenges of working together to improve outcomes for children, young people and their families.
Generally, the module will help you think about the importance of self-awareness and reflection, skills for collaboration with others, and the practical implications of implementing policy on topics such as early learning, public health and safeguarding.
*The focus will generally be on ‘targeted’ services (such as Children’s Centres, Family Centres, outreach youth work or sexual health services), as opposed to universal (e.g.
health visiting) or specialist (e.g.
Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services).
PP0625 -
Perspectives on Children's Literature (Core,20 Credits)
This module will involve you in thinking about a range of modern children's authors and their work.
You will develop an awareness of the ways in which children's literature can address challenging issues and themes, such as violence, sexuality, bullying, social justice, intolerance, gender and class.
You will focus particularly on the ways in which childhood and/or youth are represented in children’s literature.
The module will help you to think critically about the ways in which children and literacy can be viewed, and you will engage with recent research on this topic, in relation to child agency.
The module focuses especially on emergent research about the value of recreational reading and reading for pleasure.
PP0626 -
Changing Childhoods (Core,20 Credits)
You will engage in a critical analysis of the changing nature of 'childhood and youth'.
You will explore contemporary 'childhood and youth' in the context of technological, societal and global change, and will be supported to engage in critical reflection upon the future ‘childhood’, through analysis of emergent themes and issues based upon contemporary research.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/childhood-and-early-years-studies-ba-hons-uufces1:
UCAS Code W3P9
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Childhood and Early Year Studies.
Here you’ll find lecture theatres, teaching rooms and study spaces to support students in every aspect of learning.
A suitable DBS Enhanced Certificate is required.
Additional costs associated with travel to undertake field work and optional placement on the programme.
We would anticipate this being in the region of £100 per student.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/beng-hons-civil-engineering-extended-degree-uusxie1:
You will leave this course equipped with the knowledge and understanding of classical core engineering principles and the ability to apply your skills creatively and responsibly to resolve real-world engineering problems.
Our BEng Civil Engineering degree is influenced by government initiatives, the guidance of our industry partners and relevant professional bodies to ensure our teaching is at the forefront of this sector.
Accredited by the Institution of Structural Engineers, the Institution of Civil Engineers, the Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation and the Institute of Highway Engineers on behalf of Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as an Incorporated Engineer and partly meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
This degree is accredited by the Joint Board of Moderators (JBM) comprising the Institution of Civil Engineers, Institution of Structural Engineers, Institute of Highway Engineers, the Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation and the Permanent Way Institution.
Civil Engineering at Northumbria is ranked top 10 in the UK for overall Student Experience (Times Good University Guide, 2025).
See www.jbm.org.uk for further information and details of Further Learning programmes for CEng.
Throughout your studies you will undertake local field study trips.
You will also have the option to undertake a year’s paid work placement between your second and final year.
UCAS Code Z046
Find out more about our department, facilities, and what other students are taking part in.
This course will focus on all core civil engineering subjects including structures, soils, fluid mechanics and design.
You will also focus on the technological, financial, ethical, regulatory and managerial problems encountered in civil and structural engineering projects and how to overcome these.
Our teaching methods include lectures, seminars, laboratory sessions, individual and group work, practical surveying sessions and independent learning.
You will also participate in field study and external visits, where appropriate.
All learning will be supported with additional resources that will be available on our dedicated e-learning platform.
This course is assessed via a range of methods including assignments, exams, technical reports, presentations and project work.
You’ll be taught by tutors who have many years of experience in various aspects of the engineering industry.
We boast fantastic links with external organisations and often welcome guest speakers who are experts within this field.
Our reputation for quality is reflected by the range and depth of our collaborations with industry partners.
We’ve built up numerous industrial links during the 50+ years that we’ve been offering engineering courses.
When it comes to making sure you learn from the best, our Civil Engineering staff are second to none.
Dr Davide Motta
View All Staff Profiles
Vikki Edmondson
Northumbria University boasts outstanding specialist facilities to support you throughout all aspects of your degree, enabling you to gain hands-on experience in areas such as testing, mixing materials, moulding, laser cutting and 3D printing.
Our dedicated civil engineering laboratories are equipped with industry-standard equipment and we are always working to research and secure the latest hardware and software available to ensure that you develop the skills you need.
You will also have access to other facilities such as our well equipped working space, The Hub, which is open 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
The Department of Civil Engineering has modern laboratory and computing resources for learning, teaching, research, innovation and business engagement.
Research-rich learning is integrated into all areas of your course and many of our teaching team are research-active and contributing to projects that are currently defining the industry.
You will be supported by emerging technologies and world-leading research at every stage of your degree, ensuring you graduate as an innovative and discipline-informed professional engineer.
Find out more about the research taking place in the department.
High performing students will be able to transfer to the MEng Civil Engineering course, our integrated masters course that will put you on the pathway to chartered status.
Graduate prospects are very strong due to the international shortage of civil engineers.
This demand for talent is expected to rise further, as economies across the globe recover, giving civil engineering students a great opportunity to build a rewarding and prosperous career.
Due to a shortage of civil engineers, there has never been a
better time to become a civil engineer and this course will provide you
with all of the necessary skills and knowledge to help you progress your
future career within the industry
Undertaking a year-long
placement will allow you to develop your CV and gain industry experience
that you can build on once you graduate.
We also provide employer
visits at all stages of your course, allowing you to network and develop
your own industry contacts.
Employability skills are embedded in
the BEng Civil Engineering course from the start and the knowledge
areas, tools, techniques and methods you will use throughout your degree
will ensure you leave with the skills required to work within civil
engineering or a related industry.
Visit an Open Day to get insight into what it's like to study Civil Engineering.
KB4022 -
Design and Materials (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about some of the issues which will underpin your learning and practice as a civil/construction engineer.
You will learn about the mechanics of materials, material qualities, material properties at a micro level and at a macro level.Through practical and other class work you will consider and explore a range of the most commonly used materials in the industry.
Materials studied will include rocks and soils, steel, concrete and timber.
In addition, you will examine alternative material use to achieve enhanced sustainability, including the use of recycled materials, and you will develop skills in designing concrete structural members through your understanding of material properties and capacities.
KB4023 -
Land Surveying (Core,20 Credits)
Surveying refers to the determination, representation, and analysis of the positions of key features in both the natural and built environment.
It is a fundamental skill, based on accuracy and precision, that underpins all engineering and construction projects.
You will learn this through our introduction to the principles of surveying.
In lectures, we will explain the theory and concepts of surveying, and help you to develop practical and mathematical surveying skills.
We will help you to understand how engineering surveying can contribute to the successful design and completion of engineering projects through discussion in class.
Your surveying skills will be developed through practical work.
You will start by using automatic levels, learning about booking procedures, error check, and calculations.
You will then progress by using total stations, collecting angular surveys for key engineering applications and checking, assessing, and correcting your work to optimise the survey quality.
Finally, we will introduce you to a range of cutting edge, high precision surveying instrumentation such as terrestrial laser scanners, and differential GPS.
We will take you from data collection, through processing and analysis to interpretation of results.
KB4024 -
Introduction to Mechanics & Structures (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about the basic fundamentals of mechanics and structures, which are essential for your developing a career in civil/construction engineering.
You will learn about a range of relevant topics including the consideration of forces and solving problems related to forces within systems.
You will learn about principles of stress and strain and consider related factors when solving problems of this nature.
You will learn about some of the techniques used to consider the impact of loads on various beans and sections.
There will also be an opportunity to learn about associated theories linking to energy methods of structural analysis.
KB4027 -
Introduction to Fluid Mechanics and Soil Mechanics (Core,20 Credits)
In fluid mechanics you will learn about the fundamentals of fluid behaviour, density, pressure, viscosity, laminar and turbulent flow, hydrostatics, floating structures, the interaction of fluids with solid bodies and fluid flow in pipes.
In soil mechanics you will learn about the composition of soils, their strength, stress-strain behaviour and modes of failure and the compression and consolidation of soils under short and long term loading.
You will also learn about liquid flows through soils and its link to soil strength and behaviour.
KB4028 -
Introduction to Structural Design (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about the principles and considerations of structural design and the communication of design work.
You will be encouraged to develop your hand sketching in recognition that this is an important skill required to communicate early design ideas as well as to aid self-reflection and design development.
You will learn how to use CAD software to communicate your design ideas.
Your technical drawing skills will be developed, and you will gain experience of producing Civil Engineering drawings.
You will gain knowledge and skills through generic design considerations to engender a holistic appreciation of the design process prior to addressing calculation work for simple structural elements in steel, concrete, timber, or masonry.
KC4018 -
Basic algebra and trigonometry Transposition, simplification, quadratic equations, simultaneous equations, functions and identities.
Basic calculus Derivative as slope and rate of change, standard derivatives; product, quotient and function of a function rules; integration as reverse of differentiation, standard integrals, area under a curve; solution of simple differential equations by direct integration.
Complex numbers Addition, subtraction, multiplication, complex conjugate and division in algebraic form.
The Argand diagram.
Polar form and exponential form, with multiplication and division.
De Moivre's theorem (powers and roots).
Locus problems.
Calculus Implicit, parametric and logarithmic differentiation.
Maxima and minima.
MacLaurin's series.
Partial differentiation, first order change, analysis of errors, method of least squares.
Integration techniques (substitution, partial fractions, by parts) and simple applications of integration.
Matrices and Determinants Second and third order determinants, evaluation, properties, Cramer's Rule for solution of simultaneous equations; matrices, addition, subtraction, multiplication, transpose, inverse (via adjoint), solution of simultaneous linear equations by matrix inversion.
Vectors Sum, difference, magnitude, components, Cartesian representation in three dimensions; scalar and vector products, angle between vectors, application to simple geometrical and physical problems.
Differential Equations Solution of first order by separation of variables and integrating factor; second order with constant coefficients, auxiliary equation, complementary function, particular integral by substitution.
KA5054 -
Construction Project Management with BIM 1 (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about typical management practice and activity necessary at the early stages of construction projects.
There is a strong emphasis on the key pre-construction aspects of such projects in this module.
Themes can include: the planning for, and management of, construction project-level organisations and resources; the use of construction production information, the management of design during the construction process, the role that Digital Construction solutions including Building Information Modelling (BIM) have in this process; construction project planning processes; and the production of construction solutions for specific project challenges.
KB5020 -
Engineering Geology & Geotechnics (Core,20 Credits)
This module provides an introduction to the Earth’s materials, their formation, development, and behaviour and explores how they impact on considerations for site investigation and assessment.
You will learn about geological processes and structures and the formation, classification and erosion of rock and soils and the interpretation of geological maps.
You will learn about the planning and implementation of site investigations, the interpretation of borehole data and various field testing techniques as used on construction sites.
You will learn about the structure, content and use of relevant codes and standards.
You will learn about soil improvement on construction sites, suitable fill materials for different construction activities and about the different types of temporary and permanent geotechnical structures commonly encountered and the concept of bearing capacity and simple sizing calculations and construction techniques for common types of foundations.
KB5021 -
Structural Analysis (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about the important theories, principles, and procedures that form the basis of structural analysis.
You will be able to develop analytical skills and an appreciation of how this knowledge might be applied in practice to analyse simple and complex structures.
You will focus on types of structure and supports and analysis of stress and strain due to load temperature changes.
You will also address the influence lines for determinate structures, analytical principles of indeterminate structures and buckling instability of short and slender columns.
Finally, the basic principles of ultimate load analysis will be introduced.
KB5024 -
Structural Design (Core,20 Credits)
This module develops your understanding and knowledge of reinforced concrete, steel, and timber structures, and your ability to design these structures.
In this module, you will learn about topics such as the design of reinforced concrete beams, slabs and columns, and the preparation of reinforced concrete drawings.
You will also learn about the design of steel beams, columns, frames and connections, and the design of timber posts, beams and connections.
You will make use of computer methods to design structures and learn to check and validate results from computer models.
KB5025 -
Hydraulics and Hydrology (Core,20 Credits)
You will study the hydraulics of open channel flow, pipelines and pumps, as well as focusing on engineering hydrology, where you will study water supply and catchment hydrology.
Preparing for Placement (Core,0 Credits)
KL5002 -
Further Mathematics (Core,20 Credits)
The module is designed to further develop your expertise in engineering mathematics, focusing on algebraic methods of solving engineering computational problems.
On this module, you will learn about the use of matrix algebra to solve large systems of equations, together with the formulation and solution of algebraic eigenvalue problems involving ordinary and partial differential equations from the perspective of an engineer.
You will focus on the fundamentals of matrix theory that underlie powerful practical numerical algorithms for solving systems of linear equations and boundary value problems.
As you explore the mathematical techniques, you will discover how each is used in applications of civil engineering problems, including structural analysis, vibration and stability of structures, structural optimization, material science, and mechanical metamaterials.
This module will enable you to fully understand the tools behind finite element analysis, an important method in engineering.
Outline syllabus (the syllabus includes all or part of the following topics): 1.
Vectors and matrices 2.
Determinant and rank 3.
Linear systems of equations 4.
Algebraic eigenvalue problem 5.
Galerkin, Ritz, and Finite Element Method 6.
Elements of scientific programming
KB6012 -
Environmental Engineering (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you explore the role of engineering interventions to address the current Climate Emergency, to protect air, land and water from degradation and to design resilient solutions to achieve Net Zero greenhouse gas emissions.
A broad subject is distilled down to key topics in the field of environmental engineering, such as: environmental impact assessment; environmental risk assessment; water supply engineering; wastewater management; and solid waste management.
Through this exploration, you will grow to appreciate the relationships between environmental management and sustainability.
On completion of the module, you have an understanding of how environmental engineering theory and application will serve to enhance your future employment prospects in the civil engineering industry and more widely.
KB6022 -
Geotechnical Engineering (Core,20 Credits)
You will have the opportunity to build upon your learning from previous modules and apply it to geotechnical engineering design problems.
You will cover the stability of earth slopes, lateral earth pressure and retaining structures, shallow and deep foundations, settlement of foundations, soil stabilization techniques, use of standards and codes of practice and the derivation of design parameters from site investigations.
KB6031 -
Integrated Group Design Project (Core,20 Credits)
Your learning on this module will start from a client brief for a project.
The brief for the project will be based upon a real project and will be communicated in a realistic manner through correspondence and role-play client meetings.
In groups, you will explore the meaning of the brief and the business relationship with the client, develop a design team and key objectives and milestones and then work on options for the technical solution of the problem, considering factors such as cost, required construction technology and techniques, sustainability issues, health, safety and design risk management and the requirements for the business success of the different parties involved.
At all stages in the module you will engage in reflective consideration of your learning, which will be inspired by other design and construction examples taken from industry.
KB6032 -
Civil Engineering Research Project (Core,40 Credits)
You will learn to establish the scope, aims and objectives of a research topic, developing a clear problem statement and identifying specific research questions to be answered.
You will acquire an understanding of research ethics, being required to complete an online university ethics submission in line with university policy prior to commencing your research project.
You will learn to critically review published literature relating to the topic, including how to distinguish between different types of literature such as peer-reviewed or ‘grey’ literature.
You will learn how to select research methods appropriate to answer your research questions and how to design a programme of research to achieve your project aims with the resources at your disposal.
You will then gain knowledge and experience in applying specific research methods, for example laboratory practice or specific applications software for computer modelling.
You will learn how to critically evaluate research results and how to draw specific conclusions against objectives set out at the start of the project.
You will then learn how to structure and write an appropriate technical output detailing your findings and how to consider various options for disseminating your findings to a wider audience, for example posters, conference papers, journal articles and client reports.
Underlying all this you will learn to identify and manage health and safety risks, risks to the successful completion of the project and any ethical issues associated with your project.
KB6048 -
Structural Analysis and Modelling (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will learn about structural testing methods and how to validate the results of finite element applications software for structural analysis and design.
You also will learn theory of finite element method, its extended application to the consideration of dynamic problems and behaviour of dynamic structural systems.
This module provides a solid foundation in structural testing, computer modelling and the finite element method in particular.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/civil-engineering-beng-ft-uuscie1:
UCAS Code H200
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Civil Engineering.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/beng-hons-civil-engineering-subject-to-validation-dupcig1:
5 years Part Time
Mechanical and Construction Engineering
September 2025 or September 2026
This course is designed to align with the Civil Engineer (Degree) Apprenticeship Standard and meets the academic requirements for Incorporated Engineer (IEng) registration .
It blends theoretical learning with practical, work-based experience, ensuring you develop the technical knowledge, problem-solving skills, and professional competencies required in the civil engineering industry.
With flexible blended learning , including online modules, interactive sessions, and workplace projects, you can apply what you learn directly to real-world scenarios.
You will also be part of the Northumbria Civil Engineering Apprenticeship Hub , connecting with industry professionals and broadening your career prospects.
By completing this course, you gain a solid foundation in civil engineering principles, professional standards, and industry best practices.
You also develop essential skills in design, sustainability and professional civil engineering
practice, preparing you for an impactful career in the sector.
Social Work and Education
Find out how many points your qualifications are worth using the UCAS Tariff calculator: www.ucas.com/ucas/tariff-calculator .
Grade B in A-level Mathematics and another analytical science subject (Biology, Chemistry, Computer Sciences, Physics or Technology), or recognised equivalents.
DA4074 -
Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulics (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will study the fundamentals of fluid mechanics and hydraulics.
The module and its content will focus on the mathematics underlying the phenomena.
You will learn basic and advanced analysis techniques relevant to the subject matter.
DA4075 -
Geology and Soil Mechanics (Core,20 Credits)
This module provides an introduction to the Earth’s materials, their formation, development and behaviour and explores how they impact on considerations for site investigation and assessment.
The module content will be based around the mathematics underlying the phenomena.
You will learn about geological processes and structures and the formation, classification and erosion of rock and soils and the interpretation of geological maps .You will learn about basic soil mechanics that will form the core knowledge for geotechnical design.
DA4076 -
Site Investigation (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn the key principles of site surveying and setting out using traditional and GPS approaches; you will learn introductory Geographical Information Systems and mapping in a civil engineering context.
You will also learn the principles of site investigation as set out in Eurocode 7 Part 2 and similar international standards, including some appropriate tools for determining ground and groundwater conditions on site.
Underlying this you will learn appropriate safety management techniques in the site investigation context.
DA5076 -
Mathematics and Computing (Core,20 Credits)
This module provides an introduction to the concepts of scientific computing, numerical methods (used for the solution of mathematical problems encountered in engineering), data analysis and visualisation.
You will begin by learning basic coding and programming concepts.
You will make use of web-based interactive notebooks, which allow live code development, equations, visualizations and narrative text.
You will apply your programming skills to analyse, plot, and visualise appropriate datasets from structural engineering problems in the workplace or linked to research at the University.
You will be introduced to numerical methods that are used for the solution of structural engineering and other relevant problems.
DA5077 -
In this module you will develop your knowledge and understanding of structural analysis gained during Level 4 of your degree apprenticeship so that you can analyse more complex and realistic structural systems and can apply industry approaches to structural modelling in a practical and useful way.
DA5113 -
Professional Practice and the Design Team (Core,40 Credits)
You will learn how to apply the technical knowledge you have developed from earlier in your apprenticeship to the process of design for civil engineering, interpreted in its widest sense.
Working in a team at your workplace, you will be engaged in tasks such as structural, geotechnical or hydraulic design of new assets, temporary works or of upgrades or demolition of existing assets, or you will be engaged in specifying management, monitoring, or maintenance regimes for civil engineering assets.
You will work with others, applying your knowledge to your own contribution and understanding how this interacts with other team members’ contributions, and you will focus strongly on sustainability and on communication and abiding to regulations, codes of practice and your own company procedures, learning how these interrelate and facilitate successful civil engineering work.
You will also learn techniques of self-learning and development through your work.
DA5114 -
Highway and Railway Engineering (Core,20 Credits)
This module covers the design and maintenance of highway and railway systems, from planning and route selection to the detailed design of components and their subsequent maintenance.
DA5115 -
This module covers the theory and practice of geotechnical engineering design.
Design to Eurocode 7 is addressed, along with a basic introduction to geotechnical modelling.
Throughout, the emphasis is on designing geotechnical structures in the context of civil and structural engineering projects.
DA6095 -
Civil Engineering Design (Core,40 Credits)
You will apply civil engineering knowledge gained earlier in your apprenticeship or complete individual research to make an individual contribution to design work being carried out in your workplace.
Design describes a process of imagination and creativity that applies to all engineering activities, whether the requirement is to produce an artefact, a process, or a conceptual framework.
As well as the application of technical knowledge, your learning will include topics such as uncertainty in design, social aspects of design such as EDI and cultural constraints, how projects are funded by various clients, design risks and whole life cycle of designs.
DA6096 -
Civil Engineering Management (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn the legal and contractual framework for civil engineering activities, relevant regulatory issues, and the planning and management of civil engineering construction, focusing on the activities in your own and other apprentices’ workplace.
DA6097 -
Civil Engineering Systems (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about civil engineering systems, with particular focus on sustainable civil engineering in the context of the current Climate Emergency.
Taking as a basis the work undertaken by your employer, you will investigate how events and actions interact and the possible far-reaching societal consequences of civil engineering design and other decisions and select appropriate analysis techniques to solve the resulting problems.
This is likely to focus on environmental problems such as flooding, soil erosion, nuisance and waste management but could have a much wider context depending on your company’s sphere of activity.
As part of this exercise you will consider how technical literature and practical and laboratory skills can inform engineering decisions.
DA6098 -
Civil Engineering End Point Assessment Project (Core,40 Credits)
In this module you will apply knowledge and skills learned throughout your apprenticeship to complete an investigative project for your End-Point Assessment.
Working individually, you will complete a significant and defined piece of work that has a real business application and benefit.
The project must meet the needs of your employer’s business and be relevant to your occupation and apprenticeship.
The project should allow for a range of civil engineering activities to be demonstrated, and it should make use of your employer’s workplace, equipment and resources, and should contribute to workplace productivity.
Your project must be based on any of the following: a specific problem; a recurring issue; or an idea or opportunity.
DA4071 -
Engineering Mathematics (Core,20 Credits)
Building upon your previous study of mathematics, you will study the mathematics underlying civil engineering, with particular reference to structural calculations, and focusing on choosing the correct mathematical approach to solve specific problems.
DA4072 -
Structures (Core,20 Credits)
This module is an introduction to the analysis of structures covering the principles and techniques used to analyse simple structural elements.
DA4073 -
You will learn the relevant principles of material science as applicable to common civil engineering materials, including steel, concrete and timber, as well as some more novel materials.
You will learn how to select suitable materials for different civil engineering designs based on their likely loading, including both imposed and environmental loads (heat, flood etc.), and in the context of requiring a safe design.
You will learn how to consider sustainable development in selecting materials for civil engineering design, including consideration of the whole life cycle.
You will be introduced to the concept of limit state design and how Eurocodes and other relevant standards are set up and employed in design.
The course follows a structured learning pathway , guiding you from fundamental engineering principles to advanced design and management concepts.
At Level 4 , you focus on core topics like structures, fluid mechanics, and site investigation .
At Level 5 , you develop analytical skills in geotechnical engineering and structural modelling .
Finally, at Level 6 , you tackle complex civil engineering projects , leading to an End-Point Assessment that can support IEng professional registration.
Northumbria’s Research-Rich Learning approach ensures you stay updated with the latest industry advancements.
You will use cutting-edge software , access engineering databases, and explore case studies reflecting contemporary challenges in civil engineering.
Your learning is further supported by expert academic staff and dedicated online resources, helping you to progress effectively through your studies.
Your employer supports your learning by providing opportunities to develop essential skills in design, construction, sustainability and professional
civil engineering practice .
Regular progress reviews ensure that your professional growth aligns with industry standards, preparing you for a successful career in civil engineering.
It also provides a benchmark against which to map your progress on the programme.
To start the application process for either current employees or new recruits contact our Sales and Business Development team today by email or complete our online enquiry form.
If you are interested in studying this apprenticeship and you are in current full-time employment complete our online enquiry form.
If you are not in full-time employment but would like to study this apprenticeship programme, keep checking our vacancies page for information regarding job opportunities.
Enquire now about this apprenticeship:
If you would like to find out more about any of our workforce development programmes or learn how we can work with your organisation to develop your employees, complete the form below and someone from Business Development team will be in touch.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/civil-engineering-meng-ft-uusciv1:
Graduates will be able to work towards chartered Engineer status.
MEng Accredited CEn g (Full)
Our MEng Civil Engineering degree is influenced by government initiatives, the guidance of our industry partners and relevant professional bodies to ensure our teaching is at the forefront of this sector.
This degree is designed to meet the requirements of the Joint Board of Moderators (JBM) comprising the Institution of Civil Engineers, Institution of Structural Engineers, Institute of Highway Engineers, and the Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation on behalf of the Engineering Council as fully satisfying the educational base for a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
This degree is
accredited by the Joint Board of Moderators (JBM) comprising the Institution of
Civil Engineers, Institution of Structural Engineers, Institute of Highway
Engineers and the Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation on
behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the
academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
You will also have the option to undertake a year’s paid work placement between your second and fourth year.
UCAS Code H201
Take a look at the facilities for the Mechanical and Construction Engineering department.
This places us in the top quartile for world-leading publications among UK universities in General Engineering.
Due to a shortage of civil engineers, there has never been a better time to become a civil engineer and this course will provide you with all of the necessary skills and knowledge to progress your future career within the industry.
Undertaking a year-long placement will allow you to develop your CV and gain industry experience that you can build on once you graduate.
We also provide employer visits at all stages of your course, allowing you to network and develop your own industry contacts.
Employability skills are embedded in the MEng Civil Engineering course from the start and the knowledge areas, tools, techniques and methods you will use throughout your degree will ensure you leave with all of the skills required to work within civil engineering or a related industry.
The MEng Civil Engineering degree is highly valued by employers as it is designed to meet the requirements of the Joint Board of Moderators for accreditation.
KB7012 -
Infrastructure Engineering Design (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn river engineering, urban hydrology and urban drainage, coastal engineering, and sediment transport.
In each case you will learn advanced analysis techniques using computer software as well as more basic analysis based on hand-calculations.
In each case you will build upon the knowledge gained in different subjects earlier in your education and learn how to apply it to wide-ranging design/maintenance/upgrading problems.
KB7013 -
The module content includes key elements appropriate to Highways and Railway engineering, including topics such as: • Route selection • Design of horizontal and vertical alignment • Flexible and rigid pavements design and specification • Railway permanent way components and design • Railway switch and crossing design • Highway and railway drainage and earthworks • Sustainable transport options • Maintenance techniques and temporary works
KB7014 -
Structural Integrity and Historical Engineering (Core,20 Credits)
You will examine common forms of existing structures such as various types of bridges, and to consider how you can apply your existing Civil Engineering skills and knowledge learned in earlier study to gain a quantitative understanding of their original and current loading, and current condition.
You will consider different structural components and materials and how they might degrade over time and how this affects their performance.
You will also study some non-destructive testing techniques for examining engineering assets, for example Ground Penetrating Radar.
KB7015 -
Geotechnical Instabilities (Core,20 Credits)
Within this module you will explore the challenges of collecting, analysing, interpreting and presenting data on existing, complex geotechnical threats to assets.
The module themes include setting the context for and implications of geotechnical instabilities; concepts of failure processes; classifications; surface and sub-surface characterization schemes; appropriate and costed monitoring interventions; and numerical modelling techniques.
You will learn about how to monitor and quantify changes affecting geotechnical structures including rock and soil problems and the parameters influencing failure; how to model critical conditions; and assess the effectiveness of management solutions.
In this module you will also learn about recent research-led innovations that have provided new data on geotechnical environments and study practitioner-based case studies through workshops.
Finally, you will learn how to develop focused and informed data collection of a challenging site, analysing and then interpreting your own investigation into geotechnical instability, specialising in aspects which interest you most, presenting your findings and producing a professional recommendation report.
KB7016 -
Interdisciplinary Group Project (Core,20 Credits)
This module will provide you with the opportunity for you to bring together your specialist knowledge and skills within a realistic design project.
You will work in a small team to present a plan for a civil engineering development for which you will then progress from feasibility through to final design.
This module aims to offer a simulation of the experience of design work amid multi-disciplinary working environments as realised in practice.
It is envisaged that you will come to realise through practice, that good design is achieved through balancing frequently conflicting requirements in order to satisfy a range of stakeholders.
You will be provided with the opportunity to demonstrate your specialist technical abilities but also your planning, organisational and team working skills.
You will be expected to explore unfamiliar knowledge as well as the wider social and environmental considerations demanded of the engineering profession.
This course provides a solid foundation in multi-disciplinary working environments (real world project), computer modelling and the finite element method.
KB7072 -
Sensing and Monitoring for Civil Engineering Assets (Core,20 Credits)
Within this module you will learn about the key aspects of asset-related challenges and address the need to conduct detailed survey investigations of asset location and condition.
You will consider how to conduct effective monitoring programmes that identify changes and how to analyse the patterns and nature of change in the context of asset operation and stability.
You will also learn about the role of in situ logging and how to establish driver-response relationships that may threaten asset function.
To achieve this you will be introduced to an applied range of survey and monitoring techniques and get hand-on experience with analysing complex datasets.
You will draw on all your engineering experience and judgement to make clear recommendations about future action and developments to asset operators, progressing from diverse and complex information sources, to clear, detailed and appropriately considered and costed recommendations for actions.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-clinical-exercise-physiology--dtfcxp6:
Become a Master of Clinical Exercise Physiology.
Discover the science and applied research approaches needed to study acute and chronic adaptations to exercise, understand physiologic functional capacity in healthy individuals and the diagnosis and rehabilitation of those with chronic conditions.
Northumbria University is the leading provider of this Clinical Exercise Physiology Master’s program in the North East and boasts excellent links with key organisations to further support your development and knowledge.
Based in our state-of-the-art British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (BASES) approved facilities, you will learn in an industry standard, inspirational environment.
Northumbria’s Clinical Exercise Physiology course will focus on the use of exercise for assessment, prevention, and treatment in a number of diseases and clinical conditions.
During this course you will develop an understanding of the physiological factors associated with diseases and the underlying aetiology and pathophysiology of diseases.
Our Clinical Exercise Physiology MSc will prepare you to be able to improve a person’s physical status and quality of life through individualised assessment, exercise prescription and behaviour change interventions in the dual context of clinical pathology (acute and chronic) and enhancement of daily living activities.
You will also gain insight into how to interpret research and guidelines and understand how to design and conduct research in accordance with good clinical practices.
During this Masters course you will put your skills into practice by working in a clinical or community setting and getting to grips with client/patient interaction.
Our physiology lab, teaching lab and bio-mechanics lab will equip you with a full range of skills in physiology, in high demand by employers.
The clinics will teach you how to work with patients and make a diagnosis, as well as know which kind of exercise is geared towards which patient demographic.
On completion of this course, you will possess the necessary knowledge and skills to assess an individual’s physical status and quality of life to provide a bespoke solution to enhance their daily living.
You will begin training as an exercise physiologist from the outset of the academic year, to ensure that you graduate prepared and confident for the world of work.
This practical-skills based Masters is designed with employment in mind.
Our graduates have gone on to scientist-in-training pathways with the NHS, PhD study and a range of careers in health and well-being physiology.
Department Sport, Exercise and Rehabilitation
Northumbria University offers a wide range of sports masters, hear from our world class academics on the study options available to you.
Our current Sport students provide an overview of what studying Sport at Northumbria is like - whether you want to get involved in management events, using our fantastic sport facilities, or play for a Northumbria Sport team, we have it all.
You will also cover
clinical competencies and assessment skills, as well as research methods.
Teaching is
delivered through a mix of lectures, seminars and practical elements such as
laboratory work.
Assessments will be undertaken via a range of methods such as
coursework, case studies, laboratory skills, reports, presentations, articles,
posters, portfolios and exams.
During this course your on-campus lectures, workshops and seminars will all be timetabled on a Monday and Tuesdays.
For a masters programme like this we expect a commitment of around 35 hours per week - how you do your self-directed study is completely up to you.
We want you to be able to fit your studies in with your life, whether that be at our City Campus Library, the University Library Digital Commons, open 24/7 during term time, or at home with access to e-books and journals - make it work for you.
The content of this course draws on
their in-depth knowledge, delivering a learning experience that facilitates an
advanced understanding of theory and practice that is at the forefront of this
discipline.
These have included:​
Many of the teaching team have worked in research
funded projects with the likes of organisations such as Cancer Research UK, MS Society,
PD UK, and the NIHR.
European Commission – EU Directorate General -Research Innovative
Medicines Initiative (IMI) and the European Medicine Agency (EMA).
Our
team are responsible for pioneering research that helps to inform healthcare
policy and the strategies of renowned global businesses such as GlaxoSmithKline,
Philips and Nova International.
All tutor profiles
Emily Hume
Dr Eurico Wilhelm Neto
Gabriel Cucato
Sarah Allison
Sport Central has
been specially designed to enhance your learning experience thanks to its array
of state-of-the-art facilities, which include a sprint track, nutrition kitchen
and laboratory, as well as laboratories designed for assessing body
composition, exercise physiology, integrated performance and biomechanics and
gait.
Technology is
embedded throughout all aspects of your degree and you will also receive
ongoing support through our e-learning platform, Blackboard, where you can
access module handbooks, assessment information, lecture presentation slides
and reading lists.
Department Facilities
Discover more about our impressive facilities at Northumbria.
Northumbria Sport Flikr Gallery
Sport Central Facilities
The
course is delivered by a team of research-active staff who integrate their
findings into their day-to- day teaching.
Our team are responsible for
pioneering research that helps to inform healthcare policy.
Sport, Exercise and Rehabilitation Research
Preserving Health and Wellbeing
We boast fantastic
links with the NHS and other organisations in the region, thanks to the vast amount
of work we do in partnership together.
Our state-of-the-art
facilities will allow you to put your skills into practise in industry-standard
facilities, meaning you leave with knowledge and understanding that can be
applied to a real working environment.
You will leave this
course equipped with a solid foundation in clinical exercise physiology, key
practitioner skills and research skills that effectively prepare you for a
career in this dynamic and rewarding industry.
On graduation you
can look forward to working within a number of health organisations such as the
NHS, private hospitals such as Nuffield Health, Universities and other health
providers.
The roles that can
be performed by you as a clinical exercise physiologist are varied and include
cardiac rehabilitation, respiratory disorder rehabilitation, health screening
and intervention, obesity management and exercise therapy for special
populations.
A high percentage of
students also progress onto further study or doctoral-level qualifications.
The
skills acquired during this course will ensure you are well prepared should you
decide to progress down this route.
A minimum of a 2:1 honours degree in a related subject area such as sport science, physical education, or physiotherapy, or in another discipline which includes anatomy and physiology.
Work experience in a relevant field and/or a professional qualification may also be considered.
Additional requirements:
Applicants may be required to attend an interview.
Admission is subject to a suitable DBS Enhanced Certificate and a satisfactory health check.
You will be required to purchase suitable footwear for use in placement, and some placement hosts may have uniform requirement, each of which may cost approximately £50.
You will need to pay for your own travel costs, which may be approximately £400 per year depending on your placement location.
If using a car to attend placement, you may also need to pay parking charges of approximately £200 per year.
Students may choose to undertake additional qualifications, for example professional qualifications, ISAK course, etc.
which can vary between approximately £200 and £700.
JG7000 -
Academic Language Skills (ALS) for PG Sport, Exercise and Rehabilitation students (Core – for International and EU students only,0 Credits)
SP7001 -
Cardiovascular Conditions (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will explore the epidemiology, pathophysiology, and treatment of cardiovascular conditions and learn how to safely assess and prescribe exercise for people living with these conditions.
You will critically appraise the literature related to exercise intolerance, physical activity promotion and exercise as a treatment to manage these conditions.
You will also develop an understanding of good clinical practice for the assessment of patients and evaluate and interpret patient’s physical health, using physiological tests, such as blood pressure and ECG assessment.
SP7002 -
Principles of Exercise Prescription and Assessment (Core,20 Credits)
This practical focussed module will provide the foundations of exercise assessment, prescription and physical activity promotion.
You will critically appraise the evidence base and guidelines related to exercise assessment, prescription, and physical activity promotion.
You will cover important principles in relation to the frequency, intensity, type, time, volume and progression of exercise in the context of strength, aerobic fitness, balance, flexibility and mobility.
You will also consider the needs and preferences of the patient or client in your exercise prescription.
The core principles learned on this module can be applied within the condition specific modules on the programme, where you will learn how to tailor them to different conditions.
SP7004 -
Respiratory, Cancer and Neurological conditions (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will explore the epidemiology, pathophysiology, and treatment of respiratory, cancer and neurological conditions and learn how to safely assess and prescribe exercise for people living with these conditions.
You will also develop an understanding of good clinical practice for the assessment of patients and evaluate and interpret patient’s physical capacity, using physiological tests, such as lung function assessment.
SP7005 -
Ageing, Musculoskeletal and Metabolic Conditions (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will explore the epidemiology, pathophysiology, and treatment of ageing, musculoskeletal and metabolic conditions and learn how to safely assess and prescribe exercise for people living with these conditions.
You will also develop an understanding of good clinical practice for the assessment of patients and evaluate and interpret patient’s physical health, using physiological tests, such as strength assessment and gait analysis.
SP7026 -
Critical appraisal of evidence in CEP (Core,20 Credits)
This critical appraisal of evidence in clinical exercise physiology module will help you understand how to critically appraise the evidence base related to a topic in Clinical Exercise Physiology.
You will learn how to conduct a systematic review within an area of clinical exercise physiology, in accordance with PRISMA guidance.
You will also learn how to use quality assessment tools in the appraisal of research.
This module aims to improve your ability to critique the evidence base that underpins practices in the field of clinical exercise physiology.
SP7027 -
SER PGT Clinical Placement and Professional Practice (Core,60 Credits)
This clinical placement and professional practice module will help you learn and gain experience of working in a professional environment.
You will learn about the scope of the clinical exercise physiologist, how to reflect on your practice, and important skills in motivational interviewing and behaviour change that you can apply to your practice.
You will undertake a placement within one or more clinical or community settings that fall within the scope of the clinical exercise physiologist.
You will keep a record of your learning activities in a portfolio and reflect on your experiences.
You will also write up an evidence-based case study based on your experience on placements.
This module aims to enhance your understanding of working in a clinical/community environment and enhance your employability prospects.
SP7030 -
You will learn a range of research approaches and data analysis methods applicable to your subject of study as well as a critical understanding of their relative strengths and weaknesses.
You will learn how these approaches can be applied in the planning of a methodologically-rigorous and ethically-sound research study.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-clinical-exercise-physiology-dtpcxp6:
You will also cover clinical
competencies and assessment skills, as well as research methods.
You will also
be required to complete a dissertation around a topic of physiology of your
choice.
Watch our Department video to get a feel for the inspiring learning community you could be part of at Northumbria.
Our Department
The content of this course draws on their in-depth knowledge, delivering a learning experience that facilitates an advanced understanding of theory and practice that is at the forefront of this discipline.
These have included:
Many of the teaching team have worked in research funded projects with the likes of organisations such as Cancer Research UK, MS Society, PD UK, and the NIHR.
European Commission – EU Directorate General -Research Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI) and the European Medicine Agency (EMA).
Our team are responsible for pioneering research that helps to inform healthcare policy and the strategies of renowned global businesses such as GlaxoSmithKline, Philips and Nova International.
Find out more about the tutors who will be sharing their expertise with you on this course.
Technology is embedded throughout all aspects of your degree and you
will also receive ongoing support through our e-learning platform, Blackboard,
where you can access module handbooks, assessment information, lecture
presentation slides and reading lists.
Northumbria Sport
This provides benefit to you by ensuring that you are learning from specialists with real-life expertise in the health field.
The course is delivered by a team of research-active staff who integrate their findings into their day-to- day teaching.
Our team are responsible for pioneering research that helps to inform healthcare policy.
Northumbria is ranked in the top 30 for excellence in sport and exercise science research power, making it the best rated university in the North East in this discipline (REF 2014)
As a part-time
course you can work this master’s into your existing work and family
commitments.
Our state-of-the-art facilities will allow you to put your skills
into practise in industry-standard facilities, meaning you leave with knowledge
and understanding that can be applied to a real working environment.
Take a look as what Northumbria has to offer and discover what studying with us can do for you.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/communication-design-ma-dtfcdg6:
Northumbria School of Design, Arts and Creative Industries
September 2025
Communication Design is a multidisciplinary specialism which focuses on how messages and information are conveyed through different media and formats.
It encompasses practices and techniques including branding, graphic design,
typography, digital media, animation and UX/UI design.
On our Communication Design Masters course, you will learn
to integrate forward-thinking creativity with a 'Design for Good' ethos to
shape a career that stands at the crossroads of innovation, design, and social
impact.
You will undertake a mix of set, live and personal design
projects to demonstrate your creativity.
You will gain the skills
necessary to excel in the future of design, making communication sustainable,
accessible, and engaging.
And - like many of our successful graduates who work in
leading design agencies, in-house teams and digital start-ups you will be ready
to thrive in a rapidly evolving job market, using design as your tool for
meaningful change.
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree in a relevant design discipline such as graphic design, interaction design, product design, illustration, fine art, film, fashion communication, advertising, animation or similar creative disciplines..
International qualifications
English Language requirements
CD7010 -
Contextualise and Critique (Core,40 Credits)
This module is designed to help you develop an applied critical understanding of contemporary communication design practice through a process-led introduction to socially engaged design issues.
These will be explored through a series of topical design briefs, supported by contextual lectures, groups discussions and practical workshops.
For example, you may be asked to explore notions of cultural identity through the design of an exhibition or exploring how live data about climate change can be communicated to influence the public attitudes.
You will learn how to critically reflect and contextualise your own practice in relation to other design approaches as well as your own.
This module allows your experiment with a range of processes that will help to situate your current design practice, in relation to research-enriched theoretical, social and critical understandings of design as a change making process.
CD7011 -
Explore and Experiment (Core,40 Credits)
In this module, you will learn about new and emerging design practices and be introduced to advanced design approaches, methods and themes.
By taking experimental and explorative approaches to playing with new design and media practices, you will learn new skills and also evaluate them though a critical lens.
This will be achieved by positioning your own experimentation and exploration within a context of emerging design themes and technological advancements, developing a critical approach to integrating and anticipating new technologies.
Through our practical classes and workshops that include short lectures and seminars, you will be challenged to explore and apply design techniques pertinent to the digital age, including artificial intelligence and immersive technologies like virtual and augmented reality.
CD7012 -
Collaborate & Challenge (Core,40 Credits)
This module provides you with the opportunity to enhance and advance your practice through a series of collaborative projects.
You will apply your existing knowledge to current and emerging design challenges by working on live or simulated real-world projects.
These collaborative briefs involve external partners, giving you the chance to undertake more in-depth design projects that address both human and more-than-human needs and contexts.
Through these experiences, you will deepen your understanding and develop more advanced professional practices.
This will enable you to expand your work into new areas such as design strategy, product innovation, and new technologies.
You will work cooperatively in teams, supporting each other in your learning journey.
CD7013 -
Evolve and Expand (Core,60 Credits)
This module aims to evolve your practice and set new direction by consolidating your knowledge gained in earlier modules.
It offers you the opportunity to engage in a self-initiated and self-directed research-led project that evidences a critical, creative and impactful approach to communication design.
You will learn to draw on skills, knowledge and experience developed in the previous modules to frame and contextualise a social, environmental, cultural or political issue that you are passionate about.
You will use this to develop a creative brief that allows for compelling and thought-provoking explorations using communication design in response.
You will learn how to articulate, frame, ethically evaluate and communicate your proposition in a clear, relevant and compelling way for the appropriate audience.
You will learn to draw on your collaborative skills to engage with and work with your chosen stakeholders in close collaboration to realise your self-initiated project.
Alongside a fully realised communication design outcomes, you will also produce an annotated portfolio documenting your design process.
These outputs will be supplemented with a project evaluation report that communicates the context of the investigation, the design criteria, the evaluation methods and learnings from the development and delivery of your final project.
YB7000 -
Academic Language Skills for Design & Fashion (Core – for International and EU students only,0 Credits)
Research Power: Art and Design at Northumbria is ranked 4th in the UK for research power (REF, 2021).
This is a rise of 6 places compared to 2014.
Top 20 University: Art & Design at Northumbria is ranked 17th in the UK by the Complete University Guide for 2024, rising 4 places since last year.
Art & Design at Northumbria is ranked top 15 in the UK (Times Good University Guide, 2025)
Top Department: Design at Northumbria is ranked 4th in the UK (Daily Mail University Guide, 2025)
Northumbria University is the largest provider of postgraduate taught education in the North East and the 9th largest provider in the UK.
*HEIDI PLUS Student FPE 2022/23
The practical nature and future-facing focus of MA
Communication Design, means that upon graduation you will be ready for
employment, entrepreneurship or doctoral research within many areas, such as Graphic Design, Branding, Publishing, Digital &
Interaction Design, UX Design, Service Design or Product Innovation.
Our graduates work in many different jobs and
environments, including design consultancies, digital agencies, in-house design teams, business start-ups, public sector organisations or work freelance.
James Seabright
Lead Designer
Anna Brewster
Designer
Hannah Hunter
Junior Designer
To
build your Masters portfolio, you will undertake numerous set briefs and live
projects before working on your own self-initiated and collaborative work.
Click on any of these images to see a range of different final major project
work.
Each has a ‘design for good’ theme.
James Seabright: Final Major Project – “Let’s Gro” by James Seabright.
Karine Haggag: Final Major Project – “Brit Bees” by Karine Haggag
Paulina Malowwaniec: Exploring Interdisciplinary research methods in design to tackle the issues of inequalities related to cultural capital.
Samantha Bailey: Investigating how design can help children aged four to six with sensory processing disorders.
Karine Haggag
Paulina Malowwaniec
Samantha Bailey
You
will be taught by a breadth of internationally leading design practitioners,
researchers and educators.
Their expertise includes visual communication, UX/UI
design, data visualisation, digital arts, publishing and social innovation.
By
sharing their design expertise, they will help you shape your own design future
through the Masters course.
Prof Joyce Sheau Roei Yee
Dr Andrew Richardson
Cally Gatehouse
Dr Stacey Pitsillides
Jamie Steane
Dr Angelika Strohmayer
Dr Michael Shorter
Senior Research Fellow
As an MA Communication Design student, you will have shared
use of a dedicated design studio.
The Masters studio includes state-of-the art
computers and industry standard software.
You will also have access to a range
of workshops including letterpress, screen printing, photography studio,
virtual reality suite and prototyping lab.
If you have not used specialist equipment and workshops
before, you will have the opportunity to be inducted by our expert technical
staff.
You will also have free access to online tutorials to familiarise
yourself with new software.
EXPLORE MORE →

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/community-specialist-practitioner-adult-social-care-nursing-postgraduate-diploma-dtfnas6:
The Community Specialist Practice Qualification (SPQ) programme is designed to equip postgraduates with the skills required for community specialist practice and there are four pathways to choose from: District Nursing, General Practice Nursing, Adult Social Care Nursing and Community Children’s Nursing.
The health of most people in society today has been
transformed, and most people are living in better health for far longer.
Complex conditions that would formerly have been severely debilitating or fatal
are now managed largely in the home and community settings as chronic
conditions, enabling people to live independently and comfortably (QNI, 2022).
We want to welcome you to this specialist practice qualification which will
support you to develop your knowledge, skills, and competence to work with adults
in social care settings, providing care, leading services and promoting
positive changes in practice.
We will strive to equip you with the skills to be
highly autonomous, whilst working within teams and complex service provision
environments.
We will support you to be confident in working in partnership
with multiple care providers and crossing NHS and social care boundaries.
By
achieving this, you will support those you care for to live well for longer and
be active and engaged in their community.
Each pathway has a distinct approach to its delivery; however, all share a more practice focused delivery, with a 60/40 split between clinical practice and protected learning time at Northumbria University respectively.
This ensures that the specialist field of practice focuses on the specialist skills required for the pathway and is evident in the optional modules and as pathway-focused learning and teaching across all modules.
Students also benefit from integrated learning with fellow community specialist practitioner students.
This programme has been innovatively designed and coproduced with a vast range of stakeholders from all pathway routes in both health and social care, to truly reflect contemporary specialist practice, need and service provision requirements.
Registered nurses already hold recognised knowledge and skills of the profession from the Standards Framework for Nursing and Midwifery Education.
This ensures that across all fields, registrants can deliver holistic care needs to people they encounter with a range of mental, physical, cognitive, behavioural, social, or spiritual needs.
The Standards of Proficiency for Community Nursing Specialist Practice are designed to recognise new models to meet the diverse needs of people of all ages, in their home, in settings close to home and in the community.
These Standards of Proficiency for Community Nursing Specialist Practice will provide additional knowledge and skills for postgraduate community nurses to record Specialist Practice Qualifications on the NMC register.
Equipped with the SPQ qualification, these community nurses will build on these proficiencies as they gain cultural competence, experience, and fulfil their professional responsibility.
They will demonstrate their commitment to develop as a specialist community practitioner, building a career pathway, and engaging in ongoing education and professional development opportunities necessary for revalidation.
GET A TRAINING GRANT UP TO £5,000
EXPLORE NURSING AT NORTHUMBRIA
Watch Chief Executive Officer of the International Council of Nurses and recent honorary degree recipient, Howard Catton, as he visits our healthcare facilities and discovers the benefits of studying Nursing at Northumbria.
Nursing Students Win National Award
NMC are the nursing and midwifery regulators for the UK.
Watch the videos below to help you understand what is expected of nurses and the key aspects of the role.
Caring with Confidence is a series of bite-sized animations about key aspects of your role as a nursing or midwifery professional, and how the Code can support you.
In this animation we look at professionalism and what this means for you as a registered professional.
Visit our website to find out more: https://fal.cn/3axu6
It's important that everyone feels confident about the care they can expect from the nurses and midwives on our register.
We've introduced new standards for nurses and midwives in the UK, supporting them to deliver kind, safe and effective care now and in the future.
As a result, our nurses and midwives are at the forefront of improving people's health and wellbeing.
We've made two short animations to help you understand what you can expect from your nurse or midwife.
You will benefit from a newly developed curriculum, which reflects the contemporary clinical and socio-political landscape and collaborative working of Specialist Community Practice, meeting current professional and regulatory requirements.
The NMC (2022) Standards for post-registration programmes will also be met, ensuring the completion of a period of experience of sufficient length to have consolidated pre-registration outcomes and to gain a deeper understanding in specialist practice.
All modules and their assessments are designed to help you synthesise contemporary theory with clinical practice, as well as to identify gaps between your current and desired performance to develop further.
Progress review meetings will ensure that your progress is reviewed and that opportunities for learning are identified and maximised both in theory and practice.
These will be supported by your Academic Assessor and Practice Assessor and Practice Supervisor(s).
Teaching will include a mix of face-to-face taught sessions encompassed in a blended learning delivery model with appropriate use of asynchronous learning.
The programme will also include clinical leadership development and you will be taught by experienced academics who have real world experience and a research track record.
Practice Assessors (PA’s), Practice Supervisors (PS’s) and Academic Assessors (AA’s) will be used to support and assess your practice learning throughout the programme.
The Community Specialist Practitioner Qualification (SPQ) programme utilises Universal Design for Learning (UDL) principles in the design of teaching, learning and student assessment.
UDL principles are designed to assist you to achieve and excel in your studies irrespective of your individual learning needs and as such UDL is designed to promote inclusive curriculum design.
The programme team have developed a robust
supportive framework to support you pastorally, therefore you will have a
personal tutor, who are there to ensure you receive support at key times during
your programme.
You will also be supported in the clinical setting by Practice
Assessors (PA’s, Practice Supervisors (PS’s) and practice placement
facilitators (PPF) and, as part of the SPQ programme there will be progress
review meetings with you, your employer, and the University.
There will be
progress review meetings in each semester over the programme to discuss your
progress and explore any issues that may impact on your ability to complete the
required standards.
Kevin Murphy
Assistant professor and Programme Lead
Jane Callum
Robin Hyde
Karen Elton
Chris Parker
Dr Claire Pryor
Assistant professor
Isabel Quinn
Our innovative Clinical Skill Centre replicates a range of nursing environments and situations.
Its virtual reality equipment, high fidelity Simulated Mannequins (SimMan and SimBaby), and immersive technologies will allow you to practise skills, challenge your learning and develop confidence in your clinical ability – all within a safe environment.
Technology enhanced learning (TEL) is embedded throughout the
modules in this programme, and relates to learning, teaching and assessment
(LTA) approaches.
You will be introduced to TEL, within your induction period.
The ELP Blackboard Ultra will provide a range of links to electronic and
multi-media learning resources; this includes high quality e-learning
materials, consistent with the blended approach to learning.
If
you are an international student, you will have access to Academic Language
Skills (ALS) sessions to help you develop your academic language, writing and
study skills.
These sessions will run throughout the course.
Discover our Clinical Skills Centre and more
Academic Language Skills Programmes (ALS)
Our 24/7 University Library
Research-rich
learning will be embedded throughout the course, you will draw on your
developing skills to show your capacity for independent, research-based
inquiry, as well as those needed to reflect, critically evaluate, synthesise
and effectively communicate research findings.
In doing this you will
systematically develop the required depth and specialist knowledge to evidence
Mastery within your discipline and selected area of research interest, you will also experience high quality simulation events within
the Clinical Skills Laboratory where
appropriate.
Successful completion of all components of each module will lead
to the achievement of your NMC SPQ.
Students will be encouraged to access
the resources and online collaboration available through their field specific
organisations such as the Queens Nursing Institute (QNI) , National District Nurses Network (NDNN) , Association of British Paediatric Nurses (ABPN) and the British Geriatric Society (BGS ).
This will support their
national and global interconnection world within Community Specialist Practice.
Current Research Themes
Department of Nursing, Midwifery & Health
Multidisciplinary Research
How do we support people with long-term health conditions?
The programme is funded through your employer via sponsorship or
can be self-funded by the student.
Your employer will provide specific guidance
around your contract of employment and your future role within their
organisation.
The programme has been developed through collaboration with our
coproducers, including employing partners, practice colleagues and current and
previous students.
As such, the content of the programme is designed to ensure
that on completion, you are employable and meet the required NMC (2022) Standards for Specialist Practice.
The programme is designed to encourage you to take responsibility
for your development and to proactively seek opportunities to advance your
employability by building on transferable skills such as communication,
leadership, time management, as well as showing creativity and enterprise
through the completion of project work.
Career development opportunities will
be available and will include career guidance and continuing educational
opportunities.
Watch two of our lecturers discuss their own clinical experiences, and explore some of the opportunities available to you once you qualify as a Registered Nurse.
Full UK Fee:
                                £6,466
Full International Fee:
                                £12,900
AC7066 -
Non-Medical Prescribing (V300) (Optional,40 Credits)
This module will facilitate your development of the knowledge and skills required for safe and effective prescribing from a legally specified UK formulary.
Successful completion of all components of the module will lead to the achievement of a recordable prescribing qualification with your regulatory body (NMC or HCPC).
The subject areas you will study include assessing the patient and considering prescribing options, pharmacology for prescribing and de-prescribing, legal and regulatory frameworks, providing information, reaching shared decisions, monitoring and reviewing treatments, prescribing safely, professionally and as part of a team and improving prescribing practice.
AC7128 -
Advanced Clinical Assessment Skills for Community Specialist Practice (20 Credits)
This module focuses on advanced clinical skills assessment in community specialist practice and is a core module for those students undertaking the community specialist practice qualification (SPQ) pathways; district nursing, adult social care and general practice nursing.
This module is for students studying either the full time or part time programmes.
If you are studying full time, the delivery of this module will be in semester one of the programme.
If you are studying part time, the delivery of this module will be year-long, starting in semester one, year one.
This is to accommodate for the inclusion of the formative programme Practice Assessment Document (PAD), which is your record of ongoing achievement, with formative assessment of practice through year one of your programme.
You will be supported to strengthen and develop your knowledge base in relation to conducting, interpreting, and evaluating complex health and social care needs for adults, working in partnership with their families and carers.
You will be drawing upon principles of person and family centred care to inform your specialist practice.
You will develop your practice in addressing the physical and psychosocial dimensions within clinical assessment, taking into consideration epidemiology, community demography and social determinants of health and illness.
Advanced communication skills will be developed, and you will be supported to apply strategies to deliver person-centred care in complex circumstances.
The module will have a distinct focus on common as well as complex conditions encountered when caring for people accessing services relevant to your specific field of practice..
Each pathway has a bespoke route to learning, focusing on systems and complexities relevant to your pathway.
This will be reflected in your summative assessment, based on real-world clinical situations assessed via an OSCE.
Teaching will adopt a body systems approach with a range of seminars, practical workshops, tutorials, and Online Supported Learning (OSL) packages.
Sessions will focus specifically on health conditions examining the physiology, pathophysiology, and relevant pharmacology, as identified in the co-production of this module with our stakeholders and employing partners.
In addition, you will have the opportunity to understand the application of genomics and epigenetics in informing person and family centred care.
Frailty, end of life-care and the management of long-term conditions will also form part of your educational journey, allowing for the exploration of contemporary themes that will connect key learning themes structured throughout the programme.
You will develop your autonomous practice and ability to lead, and manage whole episodes of care for adults, understanding when to admit, discharge or refer as appropriate.
You will have the opportunity to advance your specialist knowledge, critical thinking, and decision-making skills, undertaking comprehensive clinical assessments, focusing on practice-based scenarios.
Similarly, you will be supported to analyse a range of informatics, including clinical investigations, to assist your assessment and diagnosis, distinguishing between normal and abnormal findings across the differing needs of complex and varied populations.
You will also demonstrate your ability to accurately document your findings, identifying pertinent clinical and care solutions and effectively communicate these appropriately within the inter-professional team as well as to those involved as part of the care.
This will include demonstrating necessary skills to plan care in partnership, maximising opportunities for self-management.
For part-time students, because this module includes your Practice Assessment Document (PAD) which is your ongoing record of achievement.
You will be supported in practice by a Practice Assessor (PA) as well as Practice Supervisors (PS) as part of your formative assessment.
You will receive semesterly progress review meeting support from an appropriate Academic Assessor (AA) and your PA in your clinical placement setting.
These will be held at each semester throughout year one of your programme, where you will gain experience and insight into your professional role, ensuring you are supported with the achievement of the required NMC standards of proficiency.
AC7129 -
Advancing Community Specialist Practice Through Leadership (30 Credits)
This module offers 30-credits at level 7.
It is part of a post-qualifying, Postgraduate Diploma, Community Specialist Practitioner Qualification (with pathways) (District Nursing, Community Children’s Nursing, General Practice Nursing or Adult Social Care Nursing).
This module is available to full-time and part-time students undertaking the Specialist Practitioner Qualification (SPQ).
This module is focused on leadership, specific to your area of clinical practice.
It allows you to apply and relate what you learn in the classroom to your academic assessment by giving opportunity to explore an area of contemporary community specialist practice.
During the module you will learn how to lead an audit in your area of specialist practice.
Drawing on the findings of the audit, you will create a poster for presentation.
The poster will outline a service improvement.
As you complete the audit you will learn about the application of leadership theory, into practice.
You will also gain knowledge about the development of sustainable practice-based interventions and the principles of risk stratification, that would improve health outcomes for your population.
As Community Specialist Practitioners are required to demonstrate a proactive, autonomous approach to their practice, presenting the service improvement will enable you to develop knowledge, understanding and skills about directly influencing practice in a positive way within your discipline.
Developing skills to recognise the need for action, entrepreneurship and innovation in public health practice, you will learn techniques to lead, influence and challenge stakeholders and services relating to health policies that affect your specialist area of practice.
At the end of the module the focus of your learning, through leadership, will be fundamental to the promotion of specialist practice within your pathway (District Nursing, Community Children’s Nursing, General Practice Nursing or Adult Social Care Nursing).
This means opportunity to improve the health and well-being of individuals, families, communities, and populations, allowing you to demonstrate real-life application of your developing leadership skills.
Each specific pathway encounters a range of real-world situations requiring leadership expertise, demonstration of sound judgement and skills to manage unpredictable circumstances.
Specific to your field of practice in bespoke sessions, you will explore these in significant context in order to develop your knowledge and confidence which will be demonstrated in your pathway specific leadership role.
You will also benefit from collaborative working with students from other pathways, allowing for integrated approaches to problem solving and managing complex decision making.
AC7130 -
Enhancing Care for Adults Living with Frailty and Multimorbidity across the life course (40 Credits)
This module offers 40-credits at level 7, is suitable for post-qualified nurses wishing to study the Community Specialist Practitioner (relevant for Adult Social Care Nursing, District Nursing and General Practice Nursing pathways).
Frailty and multimorbidity is a significant challenge facing community nursing teams and each pathway faces significant challenges and complexity.
As well as engaging in shared learning and integrated approaches to patient management, you will focus significantly on the issues facing your specific specialist role, identifying challenges, barriers and priorities for providing high-quality specialist nursing care within your fields of specialist practice.
As part of the Specialist Practice Qualification (SPQ), it will provide you with a range of contemporary specialist practice knowledge relevant to your field of practice (or pathway), skills and an evidence base for advancing specialist practice for caring for people living with a major health condition, multimorbidity and frailty.
Throughout the module the approach will be supporting a personalised approach to care recognising the complexity and diversity of contemporary society.
The impact of health inequalities will be acknowledged as will the importance of needs assessment at an individual, community and population levels.
In line with the Major Condition Strategy (2023) the six major health conditions in addition to frailty will be explored and will take a whole person approach recognising that people often live with multiple health conditions.
The module will acknowledge that the six major conditions can affect all age groups, however they are more prevalent within the older population (those over 65) and as such the impact of ageing and living with multimorbidity and frailty will be a key focus.
This will lead you to develop enhanced knowledge and skills relating to the care of older adults and those living multimorbidity and frailty.
The module will develop your knowledge and competence in caring for adults (including older adults) across health and life continua: from living well and primary prevention, secondary prevention, early diagnosis, acute illness, through to ongoing long-term care in progressive and advanced disease.
You will gain an appreciation and understanding of significant issues at transitional points up to and including end of life care.
You will further develop knowledge and understanding that managing the care for older adults, those living with multimorbidity, and frailty is a highly complex and skilled process.
You will learn the essential elements that contribute to recognising, responding, and improving the care for older adults across their life span.
Through the exploration of theories of ageing and by reflecting on professional values, attitudes, and behaviours you will gain understanding of how these can impact on care for adults.
You will understand the importance of being able to recognise, assess and respond to frailty, gaining an appreciation of the importance of the Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment (CGA) and multidisciplinary team approach in the assessment, diagnosing, management and ongoing support for older people and their family, friends, or carers.
You will develop your decision-making using evidence based therapeutic practice interventions to ensure that people receive individualised care and support based upon their need.
As such models for shared decision making will be explored and will be a key feature to empower and enable people to be involved in all decisions about treatment and care choices with proactive management frameworks to ensure this.
You will develop skills in recognising disease trajectories and managing the complexities of care and achieving best outcomes for individuals living with multimorbidity and frailty across a range of care settings and care sectors.
Your learning will be underpinned by contemporary policies and practice drivers, and you will explore how these impact on relevant governance structures and organisational boundaries.
Working with key stakeholders in a collaborative way across health and social practice areas is essential to ensuring that a holistic approach to high quality care delivery for this client group incorporates physical social psychological and spiritual dimensions of care.
An integral part of your learning will be listening, understanding, and responding to the needs of the public and people who use health and care service including informal carers.
Exploration of robust systems to share information across care sectors will ensure wishes and preferences are met and adhered to.
AC7137 -
Transforming Community Specialist Practice through Research, Policy, Evidence and Evaluation (30 Credits)
The module introduces you to research methods which assist you to transform current and contemporary Community Specialist Practice across all Specialist Pathway Qualification (SPQ) pathways.
You will develop the ability to interpret and apply critical knowledge and appreciation of epidemiological research and contemporary health policy as appropriate.
You will evaluate specialist practice, using data, analysis and synthesis from evidence related to your area of specialist practice.
Each pathway reflects specific complexity and need, which will be explored throughout the module in field-specific sessions dedicated to exploring your specific pathway.
This learning will continuously link to your pathway in all delivered sessions.
You will learn to determine strategies to critique, evaluate and disseminate evidence and research from local, national, and international sources which contribute to global innovation and improve the health of people, communities, and services.
You will learn how to identify gaps in evidence and plan to address health inequalities through innovation that improves health and well-being.
You will identify social structural factors from empirical and narrated data, which influence health and promote sustainable development and intervention goals.
You will utilise and effectively participate in critique of evidence and research strategy across interdisciplinary and interagency teams to address public health priorities and evaluate interventions.
In addition, you will generate new theory by applying evidence and data from research and policy to promote health and prevent ill health across the life course, applying an evidence-based approach to optimise public health outcomes.
Finally, you will learn how to disseminate evidence from research and evaluation, sharing outcomes and lessons learnt locally, nationally, and globally in clinical practice through professional networks and peer reviewed processes.
RV7000 -
Academic Language Skills(ALS) for PG Nursing and Midwifery students (Core – for International and EU students only,0 Credits)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/community-specialist-practitioner-adult-social-care-nursing-postgraduate-diploma-dtpnas6:
The Community Specialist
Practice Qualification (SPQ) programme is designed to equip postgraduates with
the skills required for community specialist practice and there are four
pathways to choose from: District Nursing, General Practice Nursing, Adult
Social Care Nursing and Community Children’s Nursing.
Each pathway has a
distinct approach to its delivery; however, all share a more practice focused
delivery, with a 60/40 split between clinical practice and protected learning
time at Northumbria University respectively.
This ensures that the specialist field
of practice focuses on the specialist skills required for the pathway and is
evident in the optional modules and as pathway-focused learning and teaching
across all modules.
Students also benefit
from integrated learning with fellow community specialist practitioner
students.
This programme has been innovatively designed and coproduced with a
vast range of stakeholders from all pathway routes in both health and social
care, to truly reflect contemporary specialist practice, need and service
provision requirements.
You will benefit from a newly developed curriculum, which reflects
the contemporary clinical and socio-political landscape and collaborative
working of Specialist Community Practice, meeting current professional and
regulatory requirements.
The NMC (2022) Standards for post-registration
programmes will also be met, ensuring the completion of a period of experience
of sufficient length to have consolidated pre-registration outcomes and to gain
a deeper understanding in specialist practice.
All modules and their assessments are designed to help you
synthesise contemporary theory with clinical practice, as well as to identify
gaps between your current and desired performance to develop further.
Progress
review meetings will ensure that your progress is reviewed and that
opportunities for learning are identified and maximised both in theory and
practice.
These will be supported by your Academic Assessor and Practice
Assessor and Practice Supervisor(s).
The programme team have developed a robust supportive framework to
support you pastorally, therefore you will have a personal tutor, who are there
to ensure you receive support at key times during your programme.
You will also
be supported in the clinical setting by Practice Assessors (PA’s, Practice
Supervisors (PS’s) and practice placement facilitators (PPF) and, as part of
the SPQ programme there will be progress review meetings with you, your
employer, and the University.
There will be progress review meetings in each
semester over the programme to discuss your progress and explore any issues
that may impact on your ability to complete the required standards.
Students will be encouraged to access
the resources and online collaboration available through their field specific
organisations such as the Queens Nursing Institute (QNI), National District Nurses Network (NDNN), Association of British Paediatric Nurses (ABPN) and the British Geriatric Society (BGS).

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/community-specialist-practitioner-community-childrens-nursing-postgraduate-diploma-dtfncg6:
As a Children’s Community Nurse (CCN) your role is pivotal in
supporting babies, children, young people, and their families through their
early years, very often with life limiting, life threatening, complex, and
acute health needs.
We know there has been a steep rise in the complexity
of the care needed in recent years and with this comes complex ethical decision
making, enhanced technology and working across multiple agencies including
health, education, social care, private and voluntary agencies.
This programme
will enhance your current skills and knowledge, developing your autonomy,
decision making and leadership skills and critical approach in further
developing services to meet the growing needs of babies, children, young
people, and their families.
We hope that you will enjoy learning in a
stimulating environment with other passionate practitioners where you can learn
from others experience as well as through activity and work-based
learning.
This is an exciting opportunity to develop yourself into a
community specialist practitioner to further develop and improve services for
babies, children, young people, and their families.
Our innovative Clinical Skills Centre replicates a range of nursing environments and situations.
Its
virtual reality equipment, high fidelity Simulated Mannequins (SimMan and
SimBaby), and immersive technologies will allow you to practise skills,
challenge your learning and develop confidence in your clinical ability – all
within a safe environment.
AC7131 -
Advanced Clinical Assessment Skills for Community Specialist Practice-Babies, Children and Young People (20 Credits)
This module focuses on advanced clinical skills assessment in community specialist practice and is a core module for those students undertaking the community specialist practice qualification- Community Children’s Nursing.
You will be supported to strengthen and develop your knowledge base in relation to conducting, interpreting, and evaluating complex health and social care needs for babies, children, and young people, working in partnership with their families, drawing upon principles of person and family centred care.
Advanced communication skills will be developed, and you will be supported to apply strategies with developmental consideration of babies, children, and young people, enabling them and their families to make informed choices about their care.
The module will have a distinct focus on common as well as complex conditions encountered when caring for babies, children, and young people.
Teaching will adopt a body systems approach with a range of seminars, practical workshops, tutorials, lectures (Online Supported Learning OSL packages), and tutor guided learning, with sessions focusing specifically on conditions, examining the physiology, pathophysiology, and relevant pharmacology, as identified in the co-production of this module with our stakeholders and employing partners.
You will develop your autonomous practice and ability to lead, and manage whole episodes of care for babies, children, young people, and their families, understanding when to admit, discharge or refer as appropriate.
Similarly, you will be supported to analyse a range of informatics, including clinical investigations, to assist your assessment and diagnosis, distinguishing between normal and abnormal findings across the differing needs and age ranges of babies, children, and young people.
You will also demonstrate your ability to accurately document your findings, identifying pertinent clinical and care solutions and effectively communicate these appropriately within the inter-professional team as well as to babies, children, young people, and families.
AC7132 -
Enhancing Care for Babies, Children and Young People Living with Life Limiting and Life-Threatening illness/condition (40 Credits)
Recognising the increasing complexity, mortality and morbidity of children’s health this module will explore the evidence base in supporting babies, children, young people (BCYP)and their family/ carers.
The impact of health inequalities will be acknowledged as will the importance of needs assessment at individual, community and population levels recognising the complexity and diversity of contemporary society.
You will develop your knowledge and competence in caring for BCYP from early diagnosis, through to palliative and end of life care, spanning a range of life threatening and life limiting conditions.
You will learn the essential elements that contribute to recognising, responding, and improving the care for them and their families, including your role as care co-ordinator and the skills required to facilitate this effectively.
You will understand the importance of being able to recognise, assess and respond to BCYP with a palliative condition, demonstrating the importance of advanced care planning and difficult conversations.
The complexities and importance of a multidisciplinary team approach in the assessment, diagnosing, management and ongoing support for BCYP and their family, friends, or carers will be explored including referral to specialist services (primary, acute, mental health, social, private and voluntary care sectors).
You will develop your decision-making using evidence-based assessment tools and consultation methods to ensure that BCYP receive individualised care and support based upon their need and individual choices and opinions Therefore, you will develop an awareness of the impact that contemporary policy and practice drivers have and how these influence health and social care delivery.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/community-specialist-practitioner-community-childrens-nursing-postgraduate-diploma-dtpncg6:
Registered nurses already hold recognised knowledge and skills of the profession from the Standards Framework for Nursing and Midwifery Education .

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/community-specialist-practitioner-district-nursing-postgraduate-diploma-dtfndr6:
District Nursing services continue to deliver highly
specialised person-centred care within the heart of local communities, offering
the continuity and personalisation which is valued so highly by the people we
care for, their careers and families (NHS England, 2019).
Our aim is for this
pathway to equip you with the skills and knowledge to take your community
nursing practice to the next level, building on your previous experiences to
confront the distinct challenges of providing increasingly complex care closer
to home within diverse socioeconomic populations.
You will develop advanced
clinical assessment skills, supporting you to make evidence-based decisions and
deliver exceptional standards of care.
As an expert in your field, you’ll also
consider your unique approach to leadership and your potential to positively
influence those around you.
Doing so will leave you well placed to make a
lasting impact on the health and lives of the communities you care for.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/community-specialist-practitioner-district-nursing-postgraduate-diploma-dtpndr6:
Each pathway has a distinct approach to its delivery; however, all share a more practice focused delivery, with a 60/40 split between clinical practice and protected learning
time at Northumbria University respectively.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/community-specialist-practitioner-general-practice-nursing-postgraduate-diploma-dtfngl6:
The GPN role is constantly developing and currently as more
care management is delivered from a primary care perspective, this will
continue.
As practitioners in general practice deliver care across the age
spectrum, this role offers an opportunity to deliver specialist and
high-quality care across a wide spectrum of presentations and stages of health,
wellbeing, and illness.
The role provides continuity of care, often negating
the requirements to seek medical appointments, and delivers care in a collaborative
approach with patients and their carer’s and/or families as appropriate.
The
course will offer you the opportunity to develop within a stimulating and
multi-disciplinary learning environment, on a personal and professional level,
resulting in high quality, evidenced based care provision for your patients.
It
will offer you the opportunity to expand your leadership skills and be
confident in-service improvement developments.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/higher-apprenticeship-in-community-specialist-practitioner-dtpcpc6:
The Higher Apprenticeship programme
is available full time (54 weeks) or part time (106 weeks).
Four pathways are
available:
This will allow achievement of
your 20% minimum Off The Job (OTJ) hours in line with apprenticeship standards.
This ensures that the specialist field of practice focuses on the specialist
skills required for the pathway.
This is evident in the optional modules and as
pathway-focused learning and teaching across all modules.
Apprentices also
benefitting from integrated learning with fellow community specialist
practitioner apprentices.
This higher apprenticeship programme has been
innovatively designed and coproduced with a vast range of stakeholders from all
pathway routes in both health and social care, in order to truly reflect
contemporary specialist practice need and service provision requirements.
The
apprentice journey has been a focal point of the higher apprenticeship
programmes development, working with past and current SPQ apprentices to ensure
an apprentice-centric philosophy underpinning the higher apprenticeship
programme outcomes.
Full Time and Part Time Overview:
This higher
apprenticeship programme is delivered both part time and full time.
The full
time 54-week programme (plus 7 weeks incorporated annual leave entitlement) and
the 106-week (2 year with 14 weeks annual leave incorporated) part time
programme will provide opportunities to develop your understanding of Community
Specialist Practice and capitalise on opportunities for applied learning
contextually relevant to your area of specialist practice.
Both full-time and
part-time routes will have a 60/40 split between clinical practice and
protected University theoretical learning and study time respectively.
This
will allow achievement of your 20% minimum Off The Job (OTJ) hours in line with
apprenticeship standards.
Within your area of specialist practice (DN, GPN,
ASCN or CCN), the higher apprenticeship programme adopts a distinctive
work-based and teaching philosophy which places emphasis upon a balance of
knowledge and skills development designed to deliver a tangible business or
individual apprentice benefit.
This will ensure as a specialist practitioner,
you are suitably qualified to the standards required by the NMC (2022)3 for specialist
practitioners in the community within your specific field of practice.
Higher Apprenticeship- Postgraduate Diploma in
Community Specialist Practice – District Nursing
The Specialist Practitioner Qualification -
District Nursing is critical to effective team leadership and caseload
management.
District nurses are advanced autonomous practitioners who deliver
and manage complex healthcare within the home based on need, and across a wide
range of illnesses.
They use management and risk skills to adapt to changing
situations, case load management and care coordination, providing education to
staff, patients and carers.
District nurses prevent ill health and promote
wellbeing through the recognition of population and public health demonstrating
awareness and understanding of epigenetics and genomics, reducing hospital
admissions, and improving quality of life, communicating across the health care
system to enable people to be cared for in their place of choice.
The
Specialist Practice Qualification - District Nursing ultimately prepares
postgraduate nurses to practise autonomously in the community, deliver holistic
care, manage complex caseloads, prevent unnecessary hospital admissions, and
promote patient comfort and safety.
Higher Apprenticeship- Postgraduate Diploma in
Community Specialist Practice - Childrens Community Nursing
Community Children’s Nurses (CCN) are autonomous
practitioners working collaboratively with infants, children, young people, and
their families/carers ensuring health needs are supported and met in a variety
of community settings.
They deliver high quality and complex health care for
those with acute/long term conditions, disabilities and complex conditions,
life-limiting and life-threatening illness including those requiring palliative
and end of life care.
The CCN role is highly complex, always evolving and
requires skills in negotiating, coaching, teaching, innovation, assessing risk
and shared decision making in areas of complex clinical care that may have
limited evidence base.
The Specialist Practice Qualification will provide an
excellent postgraduate higher apprenticeship programme ensuring the CCN
workforce is enabled to develop the advanced level knowledge, skills, and
experience for working in the community.
Higher Apprenticeship- Postgraduate Diploma in
Community Specialist Practice - General Practice Nursing
A Specialist Practice Qualification General
Practice Nursing (GPN) prepares the GPN to work autonomously addressing the
complexities in prevention of ill health and promotion of wellbeing.
In
addition to a wide range of clinical skills sets, they are instrumental in
managing individual and population health.
They require skills in negotiation,
coaching, teaching collaboration with other agencies and services in supporting
people and their carers to enable them to live safely and confidently at home,
managing their own conditions wherever possible.
The Specialist Practice
Qualification also prepares the GPN to adapt and manage a range of models of
care provision and lead future GPN education and training in practice.
Higher Apprenticeship- Postgraduate Diploma in
Community Specialist Practice - Adult Social Care Nursing
Within adult social care
settings (care homes, independent care provision, and care closer to home),
nurses are normally the lead clinician, carrying a significant burden of
responsibility for both clinical and holistic care of individuals, and
leadership and management for adherence to organisational legislation and
policy.
A Specialist Practice Qualification Adult Social Care nursing will
benefit nurses in these roles by providing specialist knowledge, skills, and
attributes.
These will be valued and provide assurance of expertise and
provision of high-level complex care for residents and families and
owners/operators of nursing and residential homes of all sizes.
You can view our Community Specialist Practitioner Postgraduate Diploma Programmes here:
Mode of Study 1 year Full time or 2 Years Part time
Department Nursing, Midwifery & Health
Our philosophy is to support a student-centric culture, empowering you to be an engaged and independent student, with excellent clinical and leadership skills.
A transformational pedagogical approach is used, where, as an adult, you will engage in self-directed learning; critical evaluation; reflection; knowledge and skills acquisition.
The programme offers a blended learning approach, which includes e-lectures and e-learning materials such as Online Supported Learning (OSL), seminars, a range of simulation methodologies across the module teaching delivery and workshops.
The use of technology-enhanced and simulated learning forms a core part of your programme.
This will be a component of your academic modules, proportionately and effectively used across the curriculum and in your clinical practice to support the achievement of your learning goals.
There is a mixture of field specific teaching within modules, focusing on prescribing and advanced clinical assessment skills and also within shared modules.
The latter supports inter-professional learning, giving you the opportunity to engage and learn with students undertaking other professional pathways.
This strategy is to enable you to explore the complexity and diversity of service provision and develop skills that contribute to inter-professional working.
Both research and technology enhanced learning (TEL) are embedded throughout the programme, all learning materials are underpinned with contemporary research evidence.
You will be actively encouraged and supported to engage with the research and audit process generally throughout the programme, but also in specific modules which focus on the advancement of research, audit and evidence-based practice knowledge and skills commensurate with your specialist nursing role.
In relation to practice, you will be allocated a placement duration of the programme, where you must demonstrate evidence of achieving NMC standards required of a community specialist practitioner.
You will benefit from a shared learning approach throughout the programme, learning and working alongside fellow student community specialist practitioners with the aim of promoting integrated learning and knowledge exchange.
This shared approach to learning will remain a consistent theme throughout the programme whilst allowing field-specific learning to take place in tutorials and specified sessions throughout each of the modules to support and consolidate specialist learning, delivered by experts from within your field of practice.
This apprenticeship normally takes between 54 and 106 weeks to complete, followed by the endpoint assessment which will typically be completed within 3-12 months.
Full details are available on the IFATE website .
You will be supported by a personal tutor who provides pastoral help, guidance, and support for the duration of your programme.
Module leads also provide this help, particularly in connection with specific issues relating to their module.
You will also be supported in the clinical setting by Practice Assessors (PA’s, Practice Supervisors (PS’s) and practice placement facilitators (PPF) and as part of the SPQ programme there will be progress review meetings with you, your employer, and the University.
There will be progress review meetings in each semester over the programme to discuss your progress and explore any issues that may impact on your ability to complete the required standards.
The programme team have many years’ experiences of supporting specialist practitioners so you are encouraged to seek out this support so that we can provide appropriate advice to allay your concerns or, we can refer you to appropriate services as indicated.
Another potential for pastoral support lies within your ‘community of practice,’ which will provide you with a peer support network.
Various forms of communication are available to ensure you can access support in a timely manner; examples include email, telephone, and face-to-face contact (at a distance via Microsoft teams or in person).
Contact details for all academic and professional support staff are available on the Blackboard Ultra pages of the eLearning Portal.
Student Central provide access to counselling services, advice on finance and any other student related non-programme issues including disability and dyslexia, counselling, and mental health support.
This higher apprenticeship programme is therefore designed to
equip you with the relevant academic and practical knowledge and skills to meet
the NMC SPQ standards (2022).
Your field of specialist practice is also mapped
to the QNI standards, and you will be endorsed within your identified field of
practice.
Employers/sponsors and co-producers are valuable partners in the
development, delivery, and review of the higher apprenticeship programme and
this helps us to ensure our provision continues to provide you and your peers
with contemporary knowledge, skills and values desired in the workplace.
Within
Northumbria University, you will be able to access a range of support to
develop and prepare you for employment via services including the Careers and
Employment Service team.
Northumbria apprentices have exclusive access to
Graduate Futures Careers Online – the employability hub packed with interactive
resources to help explore career options, develop your CV, complete practice
aptitude tests, undertake interview simulations and review e-learning resources
on a wide range of career topics.
Employers are invested in your success on this higher
apprenticeship programme and have been involved in the development of your
pathway of study.
Your employers will support you throughout your journey and
prepare you for your substantive role once you have completed all requirements
of the higher apprenticeship programme.
To start the application process for either current employees or new recruits contact Business Development team today by email or complete our online enquiry form .
All apprentices are required to be in full-time employment to study the Community Specialist Practitioner Apprenticeship.
If you are interested in studying this apprenticeship and you are in current full-time employment complete our online enquiry form .
If you are not in full-time employment but would like to study this apprenticeship programme, visit our vacancies page for information on all apprenticeship opportunities currently available.
Skills Assessment
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree in any subject.
Registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council and employed as a first level nurse.
A valid UK driving license with appropriate insurance for business use (if required).
If undertaking V300 Non-Medical Prescribing, they must also demonstrate the following at the point of application:Ã¢â‚¬Â¯
RPEL (Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning) can be used by applicants without the required academic accreditation to demonstrate their suitability to undertake the course, in the form of a portfolio submission as part of the application to the University.Ã¢â‚¬Â¯
If you have studied a non UK qualification, you can see how your qualifications compare to the standard entry criteria, by selecting the country that you received the qualification in, from our country pages.
English language requirements:
International applicants are required to have a minimum overall IELTS (Academic) score of 7.0 with 7 in each component (or approved equivalent*).
GCSE Requirements:
Applicants will need Maths and English Language at minimum grade 4/C, or Functional Skills English and Maths at level 2 and be able to provide evidence of these qualifications.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-computer-science-extended-degree-uusxms1:
As new information and computer systems emerge, Computer Scientists are increasingly called upon for their knowledge and skills in applying theoretical and practical knowledge to ever-changing, real-world challenges.
Through Northumbria University’s BSc (Hons) Computer Science degree, you will be immersed in an exciting, innovative environment where you will gain this theoretical and technical knowledge and develop skills which will be directly relatable to your future career.
You will study core computer science topics - from programming to architecture - and graduate as an expert in software development and engineering.
As well as this, you will also have the choice to tailor the degree to your interests and career aspirations.
Optional modules span AI, data science, virtual reality, and business computing.
Throughout these modules, you will discover the impact of computers on people and society, with modules exploring essential questions around privacy, attack prevention, and the effects of globalisation.
You will take part in a business consultancy project, delivering solutions to real-world problems.
See other similar courses you may be interested in: Artificial Intelligence BSc
UCAS Code Z063
Find out more about our Department.
Throughout your time at Northumbria University, you will be provided with a wide range of learning opportunities in a challenging, stimulating and dynamic learning environment.
You will study core knowledge in computer programming, algorithms and data structures, data management, artificial intelligence and cloud computing.
Modules in software architecture and human-computer interaction will further strengthen your skills in developing human-centred computer software.
The social and professional issues in computing will also be part of the curriculum, to highlight the responsibility that computer professionals and users should have.
In a dynamic learning environment with an expert team of staff, you will be taught theoretical and practical research skills such as information literacy, as well as problem solving skills around project management, self-directed learning and communication skills.
You will develop an understanding of important research methods and approaches which could be directly relatable to the demands of future careers.
As you progress further in your studies, you can tailor your learning experience by having a wide range of optional modules to choose from.
You will be taught by a range of academic staff who bring a wealth of professional experience from the computer science sector.
As well as teaching you and conducting research, your tutors work with other organisations and regularly publish work in prestigious publications, contributing solutions to computer science challenges.
Dr John Rooksby
Dr Nick Dalton
Dr Shanfeng Hu
Take a Virtual Tour .
In studying Computer Science at Northumbria University, you will be immersed in a research-rich environment with new and exciting insights into the discipline by our rapidly expanding Computer Science research groups , helping to overcome challenges and understand the future of technology.
Find out what innovative research our students and staff are involved in.
Almost every industry relies on computer hardware, software and systems to function and grow, meaning they need highly skilled Computer and Information professionals to maintain and develop everything.
As a computer science graduate, you may wish to enter a career in areas such as software engineering, systems analysis and design, consultancy, computer networks, database development and management, software testing, artificial intelligence, embedded systems, web development and IT management, and more.
We place a real emphasis on developing the transferable skills that will open doors to a range of careers in computer science.
These include communication, analytical and problem-solving skills, technical skills and the ability to work independently and as part of a team.
Previous students from across the department have been on placement with blue-chip companies such as Hewlett Packard and GlaxoSmithKline and at CERN in Geneva.
An alternative option could also be study abroad.
Discover some of our masters course to see where your next steps in academia could be: Computer Science MSc .
KV5031 -
During this module you will further develop your problem solving, programming and program design skills, introduced in previous modules.
You will learn the principles, knowledge, and skills to utilise the object-oriented programming (OOP) paradigm.
You will learn to use OOP concepts such as inheritance, polymorphism, encapsulation, constructors, software libraries and type safety in software projects.
Using an appropriate programming language, you will design and write object-oriented programs to process files, create and apply unit tests, and build graphical user interfaces (GUIs).
By using professional interview questions we will build up skills and familiarity with the software interview process to help build up your confidence for a place in the software industry.
KV6010 -
Big Data (Optional,20 Credits)
This module gives you a deep understanding of the concepts, theories and foundations of Big Data, and provides you with the opportunity to develop the skills to manage massive and complex data sets – as well as to infer knowledge from data - using industry standard platforms and tools.
Big data analytics is the use of advanced analytic techniques on very large, diverse data sets that might include structured, semi-structured and unstructured data, from different sources, and in different sizes from terabytes to zettabytes.
The module therefore includes an introduction to the specific nature and requirements of Big Data analytics, and to emerging trends and use cases where Big Data outperforms traditional data warehouse approaches.
It will include an understanding – and practical use of- contemporary open-source tools such as R, Hadoop, HDFS, MapReduce, Yarn, Spark, Storm, and Hive.
The module will also cover concepts of critical data studies and provide a forum for you to investigate the continuing ethical, sustainable, environmental and societal implications of Big Data.
For example, sustainable practices in Big Data analysis pipeline optimization and incorporating energy-efficient design ideas.
Ethical issues around how Big Data can be used will be explored.
Business Intelligence (Optional,20 Credits)
KV6012 -
Cloud Computing (Optional,20 Credits)
This module you will provide foundational knowledge of Cloud Computing whilst also exposing you to more complex cloud services used throughout industry.
Cloud Computing allows organisations across all sectors to leverage innovation and business advantage through subscription services.
Through the cloud businesses can access key technologies such as file storage, networking, virtual servers and software deployment tools.
You will learn the theoretical concepts of Cloud Computing and develop practical skills for using a wide range of services commonly used within industry.
The skills you acquire in this module will be applicable to digital roles in all sectors including learning how to scope out a cloud solution, understanding how to manage budgets and resources, learning how to create a virtual server to specific client requirements, and learning a range of programming skills for building and configuring cloud environments.
You will also develop skills in critically interpreting current practice, for non-technical colleagues.
That is, you will be able to explain the implications of adapting new technologies in relation to their cost benefits to your future colleagues or employees.
The assessment will involve designing, constructing, and provisioning an appropriate Cloud Computing resource for a given scenario.
Through a number of guest lectures given by experts working in cloud delivery roles you will have an opportunity to gain insights into the kind of core cloud skills employers require.
You will also critically engage with research outputs as part of your research rich learning.
The assessment is made of 3 components 1) Practical demonstration of configuring cloud services for a given scenario (60%); 2) A written report (max 2000 words) which demonstrates a critical reflection of your cloud solution (40%).
Experimental Design for Interactive Applications (Optional,20 Credits)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-computer-science-uuscms1:
UCAS Code G411
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study BSc (Hons) Computer Science.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-computer-science-16-months-dtfmcs6:
Whether you are looking for a brand new challenge or to refine your existing knowledge and expertise, this degree will help you on your way to a high earning career in computer science, and we welcome students without a background in Computing.
Designed in consultation with partners from industry, you'll develop the most up-to-date computing knowledge, tailor-made to fulfil employment demand.
Throughout the duration of the course, you'll have access to our state-of-the-art facilities.
This includes our new Computer and Information Sciences building, where you will have access to dedicated IT systems evenings and weekends.
Our equipment is industry leading and absolutely state of the art, meaning that you will graduate familiar with industry standard equipment.
Graduates are expected to work in a number of career opportunities across a wide range of specialist computing areas.
This will include software engineering, systems analysis and design, computer networks, database development and management, software testing and project management.
Graduates have also set themselves up as IT consultants, or joined existing consultancy firms.
Already have an undergraduate degree in a computing-related subject?
Advanced Computer Science MSc is the course you'll need to take your knowledge to the next level.
Accreditation: Accredited by BCS (The Chartered Institute for IT) for the purposes of partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered IT Professional.
Assessment methods will include reports, presentations, individual, group and project work, alongside regular feedback on your summative assessment.
Our experienced staff will be assigned to you on an 1-1 basis to support your chosen research topic towards the end of the programme.
You will be taught through a range of lectures, seminars, tutorials and workshops.
Throughout the programme, there is an emphasis upon self-directed learning, critical thinking, and independent research to support your academic and personal development.
For this full time Master's programme you will have approximately 13 hours of teaching time per week.
Class time can occur anytime between 9am-6pm, Monday to Friday (exact timetables will be finalised in early September).
You will also have access to the University’s award winning library (online and on campus).
The library achieved the second highest score in the UK in the Times Higher Student Satisfaction Survey 2015.
In addition to direct academic assistance, you will have access to a variety of learning support options.
Workshops led by library experts will teach you how to correctly reference sources and enhance your academic writing skills.
The electronic learning portal will also provide you with access to a selection of online support materials, including Blackboard Ultra.
Explore our Computer and Information Sciences building.
Northumbria's MSc has been designed to ensure you learn the most up-to-date computing knowledge required by employers across the industry.
We offer research-informed teaching, industry-standard software and a strong community of like-minded students.
You will develop an understanding of important research methods, techniques and approaches which could be directly applicable to the demands of your future career.
Click through to discover our current research areas
We place a real emphasis on developing the transferable skills that will open doors to a range of careers.
These include communication, analytical and problem solving skills, technical skills and the ability to work independently and as part of a team.
Graduates are expected to work in a number of career opportunities across a wide range of computer areas including software engineering, systems analysis and design, computer networks, database development and management, software testing and project management.
Meet our current and former Computing students
Pritesh Bhole
Student, India
Whitney Phillips
Student, USA
KC7013 -
Database Modelling (Core,20 Credits)
You will understand the conceptual basis for current database technology and will be able to apply such knowledge in implementing database applications.
You will be able to understand data modelling through the example of the relational model; be able to design and manipulate relational databases with relational algebra and SQL; normalise relational data structures.
You will appreciate limitations of data models and the need for database programming to achieve complete solutions, write transactions and procedures for relational databases, specify security for operations, and apply business rules.
You will gain knowledge of advanced object models, their rationale, advantages and disadvantages, construct object-relational databases with nested capability, write user-defined types as ADTs and subtypes for inheritance, use object features in Oracle database system.
You will be able to learn and employ data warehousing techniques to integrate and consolidate data from different sources, which can then be used for business reporting and exploratory data analysis.
In addition, you will realise the responsibilities of database designers with respect to professional, legal, security and ethical issues.
KF7013 -
Website Development and Deployment (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will learn the requirements for developing secure web applications to industry standards, including the technical and architectural components of the web, considering accessibility issues.
You will learn how to apply the tools and techniques required for secure web development and develop practical skills to build a web application that interacts with a database.
Issues associated with the deployment of a web application will be discussed, including how to audit and correct security deficiencies by following leading industrial practice.
The syllabus of the module will include: • The technical and architectural components of the web • HTML and CSS and their application to building a web site • Client and Server programming to deploy a secure web application that interacts with a database • Security issues in the deployment of a web application that is both usable and accessible
KF7023 -
Computer Networks & Operating Systems (Core,20 Credits)
This module provides you with a critical appreciation of networks and operating systems.
You will learn about the organisation and operation of computing systems, relevant concepts and technologies at a technical level, and the demands placed upon computer systems and the computer networks and operating systems technologies required for them to successfully support current and emerging applications.
In particular, the syllabus of the module will cover topics such as: • Systems Software Hierarch • Operating Systems Architecture • Operating System Issues, e.g., scheduling • Data Communications and Networking • Network Architectures, e.g., OSI model • Major Internet Protocols and Technologies, e.g., TCP Internet Protocol • System Security and Protection, e.g., Encryption • Professional Practice and Related Legal, Ethical and Social issues.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-computer-science-dtfcsd6:
You will develop broad knowledge and skills in the main areas of computing science, such as web development, computer networks and database modelling.
Whether you are looking for a brand-new challenge, or simply want to refine your existing knowledge and expertise, this degree will help you on your way to a high earning career in computer science.
This programme welcomes those without an undergraduate degree in Computing.
Designed in consultation with partners from industry, you will develop the most up-to-date computing knowledge, tailor-made to fulfil employment demand.
This master’s course is accredited by BCS , the Chartered Institute for IT for the purposes of partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered IT Professional.
At Northumbria University, you will have access to some of the best state-of-the-art facilities in the North East, including our new Computer and Information Sciences building located in Newcastle city centre.
Here you will have access to dedicated IT systems on evenings and weekends.
Our equipment is industry leading and state of the art, meaning that you will graduate familiar with industry standard equipment.
Learn more about the computer science facilities here .
Do you already have an undergraduate degree in a computing-related subject?
MSc Advanced Computer Science is the course you’ll need to take your knowledge to the next level.
Top Department: Northumbria is ranked 3rd in the UK for Information Systems & Management studies (Times Good University Guide, 2025).
This careers focused master's ensures that you are prepared for work from the get-go with machine learning from the outset of the course.
Assessment methods will include reports, presentations, individual, group and project work.
You will also have regular feedback as you begin the task of writing your final assessment.
For this full time Master's programme, you will have approximately 13 hours of teaching time per week.
Learning independently, working collaboratively on projects, evaluating and reflecting upon practitioner experience, are all essential skills of the computing profession.
Your modules will enable you to do all of this and more as you develop the qualities needed for a career in computing.
Upon graduating from this course, you will have an in-depth knowledge and critical understanding of the main areas of Computer Science, including the key areas of systems analysis, systems development, operating systems, networking, databases and the internet.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-computer-science-with-advanced-practice--dtscsm6:
From day one, you will be immersed in an exciting, innovative environment where you will develop broad knowledge and skills in the main areas of computing and information technology which will be directly relatable to your future career.
You will take core modules covering areas of computing in programming, databases, systems analysis and design, and computer networks and web development.
Designed in consultation with partners from industry, you will develop the most up-to-date computing knowledge, desired by employers across the industry.
In the second year, for one semester, you will have the chance to  study in another country or join a research group.
This valuable experience will enhance your employability and further develop your theoretical and practical skills.
If you take this option, you will be assigned to our Computer Science and Informatics Research Group.
There is every possibility that you may contribute to published research and therefore you may be named as part of the research team, which would be a great start to a research career.
Accredited by BCS , The Chartered Institute for IT for the purposes of partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered IT Professional.
Quality Teaching: Computer & Information Technology at Northumbria is ranked Top 15 in the UK for teaching satisfaction (Guardian University League Table, 2025).
Research Excellence: 81% of our research outputs are internationally excellent *** and world-leading **** REF 2021.
The Advanced Practice semester will be assessed via a report and presentation about your study abroad or research group activities.
For this full time Master's programme, you will have approximately 13 hours of teaching time per week in Year One.
You will also have access to specialist facilities and studios with industry-standard software as well as dedicated computing areas, which can be used during free periods and into the evenings and weekends.
Northumbria’s  MSc has been designed to ensure you learn the most up-to-date computing knowledge required by employers across the industry.
You will be taught by staff with a strong academic background in areas such as Web Programming who promote innovative and excellent learning and teaching practice.
You will develop an understanding of important research methods and approaches which could be directly applicable to the demands of your future career.
The Advanced Practice semester will help you develop a track record of achievement that will help you stand out from other job applicants.
A two-year Masters course, like this one, will carry particular weight with employers.
They’ll understand that you’ll have a deeper understanding of topics as well as more hands-on practical experience.
Upon graduating from this course, you will have an in-depth knowledge and critical understanding of the main areas of Computing and Information Technology, including the key areas of systems analysis, systems development, operating systems, networking, databases and the internet .
Graduates are expected to work in  a number of career opportunities across a wide range of computer areas including software engineering, systems analysis and design, computer networks, database development and management, software testing and project management.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-computer-science-with-artificial-intelligence-distance-learning-dtdsar6:
Drive digital change with our distance learning Computer Science with Artificial Intelligence MSc.
Study flexibly online and shape the future by completing a Masters in AI.
More than any other technology, the development of artificial intelligence (AI) has the potential to change the way we live forever .
AI programmers will be at the forefront of building a smarter future.
Those with the specialist AI and machine learning knowledge are needed to fill the computer science digital skills gap in this rapidly evolving sector.
This artificial intelligence course is one of two online Computer Science pathways we offer at Northumbria (the other being our Computer Science with Data Analytics MSc ).
On both pathways you’ll first gain a firm foundation in computer science knowledge, with shared modules in Data Modelling & Analytics, Secure Web Development, and Object Oriented Programming.
Our flexible Computer Science with Artificial Intelligence Masters course provides an opportunity to develop theoretical knowledge and hands-on computing skills to stay ahead of the curve.
You’ll learn important, practical computing skills, such as Python, Javascript, Oracle SQL Plus, Pandas, Python 3 and Microsoft Azure.
Find out more about the programming languages you’ll learn on the course .
After these foundation modules, you’ll then continue in this AI MSc pathway to specialise in artificial intelligence.
This will include developing your understanding of artificial intelligence techniques, machine learning principles, and Intelligent User Interfaces.
Northumbria University is also part of the government’s £40m-funded Institute of Coding , meaning we’re dedicated to preparing students to fill the shortage of digital skills in the UK.
We welcome applications from candidates from any background.
Whether you’re looking to change direction and kickstart a future in AI or learn more to fuel your organisation’s performance through machine learning, the learning objectives on this course will answer your needs.
We’ve designed our artificial intelligence Masters pathway to be flexible.
Study whenever and wherever suits you, accessing our teaching and learning facilities online.
Your subject tutors and dedicated Student Success Advisor will be there to support you from enrolment to graduation.
If you have a question about this course, visit our Frequently Asked Questions page or discover more about Distance Learning.
Mode of Study 2 years Distance Learning
Start Upcoming Intakes: October 2025, January 2026, April 2026
Computer Science with Data Analytics MSc
Other Computer Science Courses
If you’re looking to switch careers into computer science, wanting to enhance your existing professional opportunities, or interested in developing your knowledge of AI, this course is for you.
It’s designed for graduates with degrees in an unrelated subject to kickstart a new AI career in one of the fastest growing sectors within computer science.
You’ll develop the core understanding of information technology and artificial intelligence needed to work as a machine learning engineer, web developer and other in-demand roles.
If you’re already working in IT, it will give you the specialist AI skillset you need to progress or specialise.
And if you work in an organisation that generates data every day, this course will teach you how to harness AI, machine learning and data analysis to supercharge commercial performance.
Discover more about studying Computer Science at Northumbria .
A minimum of 15 hours study per week is recommended for this course, making it ideal for working professionals.
Our distance learning delivery and flexible model on the computer science MSc means you can balance your studies alongside any existing commitments.
Gain your Masters within 27 to 48 months depending on how fast you want to study.
We’ve designed this Masters in partnership with online experts to make sure you get the most flexible and engaging experience possible.
We understand all our students are different and lead busy lives.
That’s why our focus is on self-paced, interactive learning that will allow you the freedom to study whenever and wherever it suits you.
You will access all your computer science learning materials through our eLearning portal (elp) Blackboard Ultra.
You will study one module at a time.
The form of your assessments will vary between modules but all of them will be submitted online.
There will be no need to come to campus throughout the duration of your course.
Discover more about how we help distance learners succeed at Northumbria University.
However, all of them will be split into multiple sessions and follow a three-stage structure: Learn, Explore and Apply.
In each teaching week, you’ll have the chance to engage with interactive tools and media, ranging from text-based to video/audio (“Learn”), as well as complete online readings (“Explore”) in your own time.
Throughout the course, you will participate in virtual discussion boards with your academics and fellow students, sharing your thoughts, knowledge, and experience with them as you learn (“Apply”).
In addition, you will be able to attend live webinars on key aspects of the module and its delivery/structure, such as assessments.
These sessions will offer you the chance to engage with your tutors in real time and ask any questions you have about the course.
If you are unable to attend these scheduled sessions, they will also be recorded so you can watch them at a time that works for you.
Northumbria is ranked in the top 50 UK universities according to The Guardian University Guide 2022.
You’ll learn from academics based in our Computer and Information Sciences department.
Northumbria University is rated as one of the best young UK universities in global rankings (Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2022).
As part of the Institute of Coding , the Computer Science MSc with Artificial Intelligence course’s remit includes helping close the gap between the increasing demand for digital skills and the supply of sufficiently trained recruits.
The teaching staff’s specialisms include artificial intelligence, big data, digital networks, social computing, human-computer interaction, the Internet of Things and information sciences.
Get to know some of the tutors you may learn from below, or meet the rest of the department here .
Programme Leader - Sally Craig Lyon
What is the Institute of Coding?
Our Computer Science with Artificial Intelligence MSc has been designed to ensure you benefit directly from our Computer and Information Sciences department’s research output.
Throughout your studies, you’ll be immersed in a research-rich environment pioneered by our dedicated research groups, including our Computational Intelligence and Visual Computing (CVIC) research group.
The group develops and disseminates emerging work in computational and machine learning intelligence.
They focus on solving real problems related to the broad area of physical and soft digital security, graphical visualisation, visual data processing, and machine automation.
As part of the UK government-funded Institute of Coding , set up to help fill the growing digital skills shortage, we’ll equip you with the advanced research skills employers are looking for.
You’ll learn sought-after programming web languages and software, including Python, Javascript, Oracle SQL Plus, Pandas, Python 3 and Microsoft Azure.
Throughout the course, you’ll be encouraged to ask innovative questions and hone your critical thinking and problem solving skills.
All of this will culminate in you producing your own Masters-level dissertation project in the final stages of the course, on a topic of your choice.
Find out more .
Business and Industry
Latest research from the department
Demand for employees with specialist Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence qualifications is high.
During this course, you’ll build the in-depth understanding and skills needed to advance your career in computer science, even if you’re new to the field.
We’ve handpicked our modules to help you stand out in a lucrative market, developing both your “soft skills” and your technical capabilities.
You’ll take broad-based Computer Science modules, including Object Orientated Programming, Data Modelling and Analytics and Secure Web Development, as well as those dedicated to refining your specialist AI skill set.
You’ll explore topics such as digital signage and image processing systems, shallow and deep learning neural network techniques, unsupervised machine learning techniques, intelligent user interfaces and more.
You’ll also have a chance to grow your interpersonal, research, project management and problem solving skills through an independent dissertation project.
Discover what skills you need to get a job in AI .
Upon graduation, you’ll be well placed to take up a range of roles, including but not limited to:
Successful completion of this Masters in Computer Science with Artificial Intelligence could also lead you to a Postgraduate Research Degree .
As a distance learning student, you’ll be able to tap into our Careers and Employment Service , which offers a range of resources and support, available online and on a one-to-one basis.
PE7044 -
Data Modelling and Analytics (20 Credits)
This module is design to develop your understanding of the conceptual basis for current database technology of which you will subsequently be able to apply such knowledge in implementing database applications.
Specifically you will be able to understand how to analyse, model, design, develop and manipulate databases.
Furthermore, you will appreciate limitations of existing data models and the need for database programming to achieve complete solutions, write transactions and procedures for data manipulation, specify security for operations, and apply business rules.
You will also gain knowledge of alternative data models, their rationale, advantages and disadvantages, construct alternative data representations for contemporary data processing application.
Moreover, you will get an appreciation of non-traditional data types, systems and applications (e.g., NoSQL Databases).
You will learn how to use data for business reporting, exploratory data analysis and advanced data analytics.
PE7045 -
Secure Web Development (20 Credits)
Through the completion of this module you will learn the requirements for developing secure web applications to industry standards, including the technical and architectural components of the web, considering accessibility issues.
You will also learn how to apply the tools and techniques required for secure web development and develop practical skills to build a web application that interacts with a database.
Issues associated with the deployment of a web application will also be discussed, including how to audit and correct security deficiencies by following leading industrial practice.
The syllabus of the module will include: • The technical and architectural components of the web • HTML and CSS and their application to building a web site • Client and Server programming to deploy a secure  web application that interacts with a database• Security issues in the deployment of a web application that is both usable and accessible
PE7047 -
AI Studio (20 Credits)
PE7046 -
Research Project (60 Credits)
The aim of this module is for you to undertake a substantial academic research project at Masters level, produce a dissertation based on this work and present your findings.
Your project itself will comprise a major piece of independent and original research centred at the forefront of your programme discipline.
This takes place within the wider sphere of Computer Science.
In order to develop the necessary research knowledge and capabilities to successful complete the study, the module will begin with a taught stage where you develop a solid understanding of research methodology and methods alongside wider project management and academic skills required to successfully complete a research project.
You will then progress to the completion of your project which will require you to develop, consolidate, and apply your independent research, academic study, and research skills to the investigation of a topic of your own choice that is relevant to your programme of study.
You will experience the full life cycle of a research project from initial conception, development of a research proposal, critical review of the literature, planning and design of the research study to the implementation of your research, analysis of the findings, evaluation, reflection and dissemination.
You will present your work in a written report and recorded oral presentation.
PE7048 -
Intelligent User Interfaces (20 Credits)
You will study a number of application areas of IUIs, and will practice the design and evaluation skills of the Human-Computer Interaction professional to specifically prototype and evaluate an IUI in your virtual classes.
PE7070 -
Object Oriented Programming (20 Credits)
This module is designed to develop your knowledge; understanding and skills in object oriented programming and program design concepts, using an object first approach.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-computer-science-with-data-analytics-distance-learning-dtdcda6:
Drive digital change with our distance learning Computer Science with Data Analytics MSc.
Unlock your potential in digital data and stay ahead of the curve by completing a Masters in Data Analytics.
With 2.5 quintillion bytes produced each day, we’re generating more data than ever before.
It’s a figure that’s only set to rise with the growth of the Internet of Things.
Businesses across the world are calling out for computer science experts with the specialist data science knowledge needed to manage and analyse this wealth of information.
This data analytics course is one of two online Computer Science pathways we offer at Northumbria (the other being our Computer Science with Artificial Intelligence MSc ).
After these foundation modules, you’ll then continue in this Data Analytics MSc pathway to specialise in data science.
This will include developing your understanding of big data, cloud computing, statistics and business intelligence.
Our flexible Computer Science with Data Analytics Masters course provides an opportunity to develop theoretical knowledge and hands-on computing skills to stay ahead of the curve.
You’ll learn important practical computing skills, such as  Python, Javascript, Oracle SQL Plus, Pandas, Python 3 and Microsoft Azure, to hone your programming skills.
Whether you’re looking to change direction and kickstart a future in Data Analytics or learn more to fuel your organisation’s performance through big data, the learning objectives on this course will answer your needs.
We’ve designed our Data Analytics Masters pathway to be flexible, so you’ll be able to study whenever and wherever it suits you.
Access all our teaching and learning facilities online.
And your subject tutors and dedicated Student Success Advisor will be there to support you from enrolment to graduation.
If you have a question about this course, visit our Frequently Asked Questions page or discover more about our online degree and studying a masters
Check out similar courses such as our Business Analytics MSc
Computer Science with Artificial Intelligence MSc
If you’re looking to switch careers into computer science, wanting to enhance your existing professional opportunities, or interested in developing your knowledge of data science and data analytics, this course is for you.
It’s designed for graduates with degrees in an unrelated subject to kickstart a new data analytics career in one of the fastest growing sectors within computer science.
You’ll develop the core understanding of analysing and processing big data needed to work as a data analyst, data engineer, web developer and other in-demand roles.
If you’re already working in IT, it will give you the specialist data skillset you need to progress or specialise.
And if you work in an organisation that generates data every day, this course will teach you how to harness data analysis and cloud computing to supercharge commercial performance.
Learn why you should study computer science at Northumbria .
Gain your Masters in 27 to 48 months, depending on
how fast you want to study.
Read our blog: “ 4 Key Ways We Help Our Distance Learners Succeed ”
Throughout the course, you will participate in virtual discussion boards with your academics and fellow students, sharing your thoughts, knowledge and experience with them as you learn (“Apply”).
You will also be able to access over half a million books and e-books through our online University Library Services.
Northumbria is ranked in the top 50 UK universities according to The Guardian University Guide 2022 .
As part of the Institute of Coding , the Computer Science MSc with Data Analytics course’s remit includes helping close the gap between the increasing demand for digital skills and the supply of sufficiently trained recruits.
Sally Craig Lyon
Our Computer Science with Data Analytics MSc has been designed to ensure you benefit directly from our Computer and Information Sciences department’s research output.
Throughout your studies, you’ll be immersed in a research-rich environment pioneered by our dedicated research groups, including our Information Management and Data Analytics (IMDA) research group.
They focus on solving real problems related to the broad area of physical and soft digital security, graphical visualisation, visual data processing, and machine automation.
You’ll learn sought-after programming web languages and software, including Python, Javascript, Oracle SQL Plus, Pandas, Python 3 and Microsoft Azure.
Throughout the course, you’ll be encouraged to ask innovative questions and hone your critical thinking and problem solving skills.
Demand for employees with specialist data science qualifications is high.
You’ll take broad-based computer science modules, including: Object Orientated Programming, Data Modelling & Analytics, Secure Web Development.
Plus those dedicated to honing your specialist data skill set: Big Data & Cloud Computing, Statistics & Business Intelligence.
You’ll also have a chance to grow your research, project management and problem solving skills through an independent dissertation project.
Discover which Big Data Skills are most in demand and how we’ll help you harness them
Upon graduation, you’ll be well placed to take up a range of roles including, but not limited to:
You could work in a range of different industries, including investment management, healthcare and banking, amongst many others.
Successful completion of this Masters in Computer Science with Data Analytics could also lead you to a Postgraduate Research Degree .
PE7049 -
Big Data & Cloud Computing (20 Credits)
Throughout this module you will develop knowledge and skills that will enable you to tackle a realistic big data problem, using some of the principal machine learning techniques and statistical approaches used in big data analysis.
You will also learn approaches to processing and analysing big data, based on advanced statistical processing, supervised and unsupervised machine learning algorithms and other state of the art big data analytic methods.
PE7050 -
Statistics & Business Intelligence (20 Credits)
The aim of the module is to provide you with the knowledge and practical skills for applying modern analytical techniques to business data.
The module combines both theoretical and practical approaches so that you will have the skills to tackle problems in various realistic business settings.
Indeed, this module is primarily concerned with examining and analysing (big) data arising from business(es) and to relate the extracted information to strategic, tactical and operational decision-making in organisations.
You will cover topics such as: • Data processing and big data • Exploratory data analysis • Probability and distributions • Hypothesis testing • Correlation and regression analysis • Classification • Distance measures • Clustering

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-computing-top-up-award-uufcou1:
G419
Complete your degree and enhance your employability with our
full-time Computing (Top-Up) BSc (Hons) course - designed specifically for students
who already hold a Foundation Degree, HND, or equivalent qualification in
computing or a related field.
This one-year course builds directly on your
existing knowledge, allowing you to gain a full UK honours degree while
developing the future-facing technical and project skills that employers value
most.
Whether you're progressing from a UK partner college or joining us from
overseas, this course offers a fast, practical and academically robust route to
the next stage of your career.
You can explore modern methods of software
development - including AI-enhanced programming - while expanding your
understanding of key topics such as data security, governance, and ethical computing
practices.
This course combines team-based software projects with a personal,
research-focused computing project, ensuring you graduate with both technical
fluency and applied experience.
You can also choose one specialist module in
topics such as Cloud Computing, Big Data, Machine Learning, or UX, allowing you
to tailor your learning to your career interests.
BTEC HND or Foundation degree or equivalent Diploma level qualifications with overall pass in a computing, business computing, IT or related subject area.
KV6025 -
Contemporary Methods of Software Development (Core,20 Credits)
This module will give you an essential foundation in contemporary software development methods.
You will learn key principles in architecting and constructing interactive applications for web and mobile devices.
You will apply these principles by building a system that incorporates a user interface, a database and system logic for creating, reading, updating and deleting data.
You will also gain hands on experience with industry standard developer tools, including code editors, versioning systems, package managers and debugging tools.
The module will include use of generative AI as a code assistant (e.g.
for generating assets and designs, for debugging, and for optimization).
‘Contemporary Methods of Software Development’ will provide you with skills for developing interactive applications.
By the end of the module you will have built an application that others will be able to download and use.
The skills you learn will be valuable if you want to develop software for your dissertation project.
Employers are looking for software developers with transferable skills and the ability to think critically.
KV6026 -
Computing Project: Proposal (Core,20 Credits)
This module is the first half of your major final year project module, during which you will undertake a substantial individual practical computing project related to your programme of study.
You will become knowledgeable in your chosen topic, including important concepts and literature.
You will use and further develop skills learnt elsewhere in your programme and acquire new skills and expertise to carry out practical computing work.
You will also acquire or further develop your professional skills, including communication skills (oral presentation and report writing), literature searching and review, research methods and design, project management and personal time management.
During this module, you will create a project proposal for the practical project you will complete as part of the  Computing Project: Practical module, which you will study in your second semester of the programme.
This practical project will involve the creation of an artefact as the focus for covering all or part of an implementation lifecycle.
In this module, you create a proposal for this project and explore the issues the practical project will address.
Projects based solely on literature review activity and/or user/market surveys are unacceptable, e.g., all will involve system/software development work.
Hence, you will engage in research-informed authentic enquiry by exploring the context of a computing problem and planning how you can execute a related practical investigation in your second semester on the programme.
KV6027 -
Computing Project: Practical (Core,20 Credits)
This module is the second half of your major final year project module, during which you will undertake a substantial individual practical computing project related to your programme of study.
You will also acquire or further develop your professional skills, including communication skills (both oral presentation and report writing), project management and personal time management.
During this module, you will complete a practical computing project for which you developed a proposal in your first-semester project proposal module.
In this module, you develop the system/software development artefacts you agreed in your project proposal.
You will verify the artefacts developed.
You will also critically evaluate the project, processes and technologies employed and your personal performance.
Hence, you will engage in research-informed, authentic enquiry by delivering and evaluating a practical computing project.
Gain a full BSc (Hons) Computing degree in just one year of full-time study.
Choose from optional modules in topics such as Cloud Computing, Big Data, Machine Learning, or UX.
Develop advanced technical and practical experience through group and individual computing projects.
Taught by expert staff with industry-informed teaching and internationally recognised research.
Study in a purpose-built £7m Computer and Information Sciences building with modern computing labs and flexible workspaces.
Graduating with the BSc (Hons) Computing Top-Up degree
prepares you for a wide range of technical and analytical roles across the tech
sector.
Whether you want to build systems, analyse data, design user
experiences, or explore machine learning, this course offers the ideal
springboard.
Typical roles for graduates include: Software Developer /
Engineer, Web and App Developer, Systems Analyst Data Analyst, Machine Learning
Specialist, IT Project Coordinator.
As well as enhancing your technical
toolkit, you can develop transferable skills that employers look for across
industries—such as collaborative teamwork, communication, creative
problem-solving, critical thinking, and research analysis.
Graduates may also
choose to continue their studies at postgraduate level in computing, data
science, HCI, or AI.
You’ll be taught by experienced academics and
practitioner-educators with backgrounds in both computing research and industry
application.
Our teaching staff are active contributors to leading fields such
as artificial intelligence, data science, HCI, and cybersecurity.
Many are
involved in research projects, public engagement, and partnerships with major
organisations, ensuring that your learning is informed by both cutting-edge
knowledge and real-world relevance.
Dr Yulei Li
Dr Carly Foster
As a
Computing student at Northumbria, you’ll benefit from modern facilities that
support flexible, collaborative, and hands-on learning.
You’ll study in the
purpose-built, £7m Computer and Information Sciences building—designed as a
sustainable Smart Building and home to state-of-the-art computing spaces, teaching
labs, and collaboration zones.
Northumbria also offers a rich digital learning
environment, with 24/7 access to resources, recorded lectures, and academic
support.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/computing-and-information-technology-foundation-year-uusciz1:
The Computing and Information Technology Foundation Year offers a wide-ranging and rigorous introduction to the various facets of computing and information science and gives you the experience to make an informed decision about which degree course to study.
The
modules will provide you with a solid introduction to information technology,
information systems and computing, and students who successfully complete the
course can progress onto the following degree courses:
BSc (Hons) Computer Science
BSc (Hons) Artificial Intelligence
BSc (Hons) Data Science
BSc (Hons) Games Computing
BSc (Hons) Networks and Cyber Security
BSc (Hons) Business Computing
UCAS Code I200
Mode of Study 1 year Full Time followed by a further 3 years Full Time or 4 years with a placement (sandwich)
On this course, you will learn through a mix of formal taught sessions and guided independent research.
You will experience a wide range of learning opportunities in a stimulating, challenging, and dynamic learning environment and you will be taught through a mix of lectures, seminars, tutorials and practical sessions.
You will be expected to play an active role in seminars and workshops as part of your learning and development and be encouraged to develop independent learning skills and techniques.
You will have the opportunity to research topics independently and in small groups to deepen your learning and understanding and you will be taught the skills to communicate the findings of your research and investigations in a number of ways.
You will be taught by a range of academic staff who bring a wealth of professional experience from the Computer Science and Information Science sectors.
In a dynamic learning environment with an expert team of staff, you will be taught theoretical and practical research skills such as information literacy, as well as problem-solving skills, self-directed learning and communication skills.
You will be fully supported throughout the course, with up to 15 hours of contact a week and evaluation through continuous assessment.
This will help you to build valuable life and learning skills alongside your IT knowledge.
View all Staff profiles .
Our £7m Computer and Information Sciences building was opened in 2018, especially for our computing students, and it is packed with high quality services to support your learning.
Plus, our award-winning Library has lots of resources and study spaces to support your learning, with professional support services for students at all levels of study.
We are living in a digital age where all of our lives are impacted by digital technologies and information systems.
You will be immersed in a research-rich environment with new and exciting insights by our rapidly expanding Computer Science and Information Science Research Groups.
Our courses are at the forefront of current knowledge and practise and are shaped by world-leading internationally excellent research, contributing significantly to both the industry, and quality of teaching here at Northumbria.
You will be taught by staff with a strong academic background in areas such as Software Design & Development, Web Programming, Artificial Intelligence and User Centred Design.
Upon completion of this course, you will be prepared to progress onto a full degree course.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/master-of-science-computing-and-technology-with-advanced-practice-london-dtscot6:
The MSc Computing and Technology programme is designed specifically to enable you to update, extend and deepen your knowledge in computing and IT and wider digital leadership and technology subjects, in order to enhance and accelerate your career opportunities.
By completing the MSc in Computing and Technology you will be able to demonstrate capabilities in the areas of the Computing and Digital Technology subject discipline.
This Masters programme has been designed in consultation with partners from the industry to ensure you learn up-to-date computing knowledge required by employers across the industry.
Graduates from the programme will be equipped to work in a variety of careers in the IT industry or to progress to academic or research-orientated careers.
The central theme of the programme is to develop you as digital leader, and in support of this throughout the programme you will engage in a range of modules designed to develop your competences in areas such as Digital Leadership, Information Governance and Cyber Security, Innovation in Business & Technology, Software Engineering and Database Analytics.
As you progress through the programme you will develop as a well-rounded and outward-looking professional capable of taking responsibility for, and effective leadership of, computing and technology projects and people, capable of making good decisions and improving the performance of yourself, your people, your areas of responsibility and your organisation.
The programme recognises that as a computing professional you are required to develop competencies in a range of specific computing techniques alongside softer skills in areas such as leadership, communication, problem solving and commercial reasoning.
By successfully completing your programme you will have not only have demonstrated mastery of these skills but alongside the development of your personal practice your ability to impact personal and organisational performance.
It is the combination of these factors that will advance your personal development and enhance your career opportunities.
The programme will cover the following languages:
This Masters programme has been designed to ensure that graduates from the programme will be equipped to work in a variety of careers in the IT industry or to progress to academic or research-orientated careers.
The qualification is designed to accelerate your skills and competence in a range of job roles, including roles in leadership and management in IT, Software Engineer, Database Developer, Data Analyst, Information Security professional, Business Analyst, to name but a few.
You will conduct a self-analysis of your own leadership and team management competencies and identify strengthens and areas of improvement.
In this module, you will develop new knowledge and skills in Software Engineering, apply them, and critically analyse the implementation and recommend potential future improvements.
Such knowledge and skills are particularly beneficial for a career in roles where you are required to architect, develop and deliver complex software systems from agreed specifications by employing industry-standard conventions and tools.
In this module, you will develop new knowledge and skills in data analytics, apply them in your own context, critically analyse the implementation and recommend potential future improvements.
Such knowledge and skills are particularly beneficial for a career in areas such as business analytics, business intelligence, data analytics and data science.
In this module, you will develop new knowledge and skills in Managing Technology Innovation, apply them and critically analyse how innovation in its various forms affect business competitiveness and recommend potential future improvements.
This module prepares technologists and specialists to be innovators within their own organisation, enabling them to contribute or lead future internal transformation or entrepreneurial initiatives.
Scholarships and bursaries for international students Depending on the country you are from, you may be eligible for a country bursary and/or scholarship when studying the MSc Computing and Technology programme.
Depending on the country you are from, you may be eligible for a country bursary and/or scholarship when studying the MSc Computing and Technology programme.
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study the 1 year MSc Computing and Technology .
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study the MSc Computing and Technology with Advanced Practice .
IELTS 6.5, with no single element below than 5.5, or equivalent
Minimum 2:2 honours degree, or equivalent
16 - 24 months

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-computing-with-artificial-intelligence-technology-full-time-london-subject-uufctg3arn:
Duration 1-3 years (depending on entry point)
1-3 years (depending on entry point) Full-time classroom
It has been predicted that digital technologies such as AI and cloud could create a half-trillion opportunity for the UK economy, increasing GDP by over £550 billion by 2035 (Microsoft, 2024), highlighting the impact AI could have if utilised effectively.
The BSc (Hons) Computing with AI Technology will provide you with a recognised undergraduate qualification which combines a wide range of computing subject areas with Artificial Intelligence Technology.
It is also attractive to learners who have related IT work experience but do not hold a first degree as they provide an opportunity to achieve an academic qualification in a subject area in which they are familiar.
Indeed, there is a need in the market for those with such qualifications and the programme can prepare you for a range of careers in artificial intelligence, including machine learning on cloud and programming for AI applications.
You will be exposed to the in-depth concepts, principles, technologies, and techniques to train and deploy distributed machine learning models using cloud-based platforms such as Google Cloud or AWS.
You will subsequently be able to apply this knowledge and skill in your own context, and subsequently critically analyse the implementation and recommend potential future improvements.
You will additionally develop understanding of the typology of innovation, how firms leverage internal and external resources to compete in the digital environment, and how to plan for innovation in any organisation.
After graduating from this programme, you will be equipped to work in a variety of careers in the IT industry, or to progress to academic or research-orientated careers.
The programme will develop your skills and competencies for careers in a range of job roles, such as:
Depending on your previous qualifications, you can join the programme directly onto Year One, Two or Three.
Find out how many points your qualifications are worth by using the UCAS Tariff calculator: ucas.com/ucas/tariff-calculator
GCSE requirements: Maths and English Language at minimum grade 4/C, or an equivalent.
Applicants holding a relevant computing or IT qualification in addition to one of the following: DipHE, any Level 5 award such as Certificate, Diploma or NVQ, will also be considered.
Please note:
For Level 5 and Level 6 entry y ou must provide evidence of a Level 2 Maths or equivalent.
Exemptions are granted if you can evidence previous study in finance, accounting, statistics, data analysis or research modules at previous levels of study.
Applicants over the age of 21 without formal qualifications yet with appropriate work experience are also encouraged to apply for entry to level 4 or 5.
Algorithms and Programming Fundamentals This module will provide you an essential foundation in computer programming, while helping you develop career-ready skills analysing computing problems and applying effective programming solutions.
Explore the process of programming and how to use techniques such as abstraction, data structures and encapsulation Learn to develop computing applications Make the most of computer labs Engage with literature search and review as part of your research-rich learning Gain all the preparation you’ll need for later modules and your final project Foundations of Computing Technology This module will introduce you to mathematical and computational concepts, and the information technology infrastructure encompassing systems and devices.
Learn how to use web technologies and other network resources Explore the use of the internet, cloud, and computer systems and other emerging technologies such as the internet of things (IoT) Identify and discuss examples of legal, ethical, security, and privacy issues Database Design and Implementation Get career-ready by developing a solid understanding of database approach, including its benefits in contrast to traditional file approach.
Gain an introduction to key fundamental concepts such as database architectures, components, and functions of database management systems (DBMS) Build your knowledge of various data modelling techniques applied to real world case scenarios Learn to use structured query language (SQL) to create and manipulate databases using target DBMS (such as MYSQL or Oracle or similar) Get the chance to practice SQL in computer labs to query target databases Explore ethical, social, and legal issues in relation to the use of databases in organisations Data Communications & Networks Build your understanding of the fundamental principles of data communication technologies, network models and the protocols used for digital transmission to support business operations.
Build your knowledge of the difference between Digital and Analog transmission and modulation techniques used for data transmission Gain an understanding of the importance of data security in transit Learn about the protocols and technologies available to protect communications against a man-in-the-middle attack Develop technical skills in designing, testing, and securing simple network models using tools such as Cisco Packet Tracer and GNS3 Make the most of hands-on practical tasks Web Design and Development This module will cover the fundamental concepts and principles of website design and development.
Get hands-on experience to design and develop interactive and responsive website using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, MySQL and appropriate client-side frameworks Learn how to analyse the requirements of a real-world problem and apply analytical skills to deliver a working a website Apply computational thinking to design and develop an innovative solution Learn approaches to deliver accessible and sustainable web design while considering the importance of United Nations 17 sustainable development goals (UN, 2021) Software Engineering Principles Gain an introduction of object orientation (OO) in the context of software analysis and design and relate them to OO programming concepts.
Develop your theoretical understanding and practical skills for developing software applications Learn to use professional tools and frameworks such as UML, starUML, Eclipse or NetBeans Explore fundamental software engineering principles including Object orientated analysis and design, Agile Software Development methodologies and Phases of software development Understand fundamental software principles and construct software systems using object oriented programming, analysis, and design concepts Become confident in discussing and applying fundamental theoretical concepts related to software project development Academic Language Skills for Computing and Technology Develop key academic skills, including language and research skills, to successfully complete your assignments throughout the programme.
Develop and practice your language skills including reading, listening, speaking and writing Become confident in producing high-quality academic works that follow conventions accepted in the English-speaking academic world Develop research skills to make sure you are able to find reliable sources Learn how to integrate sources into your writing using referencing standards Boost critical thinking skills, enabling you to carry out objective and in-depth data analysis Learn about successful communication and building working relationship with people from different cultures, allowing you to build strong relationships with your fellow students, while preparing you for your future career
This module will provide you an essential foundation in computer programming, while helping you develop career-ready skills analysing computing problems and applying effective programming solutions.
Foundations of Computing Technology This module will introduce you to mathematical and computational concepts, and the information technology infrastructure encompassing systems and devices.
This module will introduce you to mathematical and computational concepts, and the information technology infrastructure encompassing systems and devices.
Database Design and Implementation Get career-ready by developing a solid understanding of database approach, including its benefits in contrast to traditional file approach.
Get career-ready by developing a solid understanding of database approach, including its benefits in contrast to traditional file approach.
Data Communications & Networks Build your understanding of the fundamental principles of data communication technologies, network models and the protocols used for digital transmission to support business operations.
Build your understanding of the fundamental principles of data communication technologies, network models and the protocols used for digital transmission to support business operations.
Web Design and Development This module will cover the fundamental concepts and principles of website design and development.
This module will cover the fundamental concepts and principles of website design and development.
Software Engineering Principles Gain an introduction of object orientation (OO) in the context of software analysis and design and relate them to OO programming concepts.
Gain an introduction of object orientation (OO) in the context of software analysis and design and relate them to OO programming concepts.
Academic Language Skills for Computing and Technology Develop key academic skills, including language and research skills, to successfully complete your assignments throughout the programme.
Develop key academic skills, including language and research skills, to successfully complete your assignments throughout the programme.
Cloud Computing Technologies With more organisations using the cloud for storing sensitive data, gaining a solid knowledge and critical understanding of fundamental concepts, principles and technologies in Cloud Computing will provide invaluable insight for your experiential learning semester and future career.
Study key topics including distributed computing, hardware infrastructures, software infrastructures, data centre facilities and virtualization Apply your knowledge to analyse and evaluate cloud computing solutions within the context of a business/organisation/enterprise Explore both the solutions and risks involved in cloud infrastructures Apply theory to practice through extensive hands-on use of cutting-edge cloud computing technologies such as Amazon (AWS), Microsoft (Azure), Google Cloud or similar Gain career-ready knowledge and skills to prepare you for roles such as Cloud Engineer, Cloud Architect, Cloud Developer, Cloud Analyst, Cloud Service Manager, Cloud Security consultant and more Cyber Security Gain an in-depth understanding of the changing cyber landscape as a result of digital transformation and rise of machine-to-machine communication.
Build knowledge of contemporary threats, exploiting vulnerabilities to individual security and organisations Learn about cyber security in data driven environments and how to implement safeguarding measures against targeted and untargeted attacks Understand how to apply operating system security, symmetric and asymmetric algorithms and network security Practise using windows, Unix or similar virtual machines to apply different types of access control policies and other security techniques to avoid escalation of privileges Explore cyber laws related to Cyberpsychology, fake news, cyber bullying and organisation security Systems and Processes in Business Context Within the module you will determine steps to ensure business processes are aligned with business strategies, operations and the role of business.
Further to this, you will analyse and design how businesses can make meaningful change to business processes and be able to adapt for the future.
You will also learn to use business process automation tool to prove your design concepts.
Indicative topics include but not limited to the following; Introduction to modelling business systems process Business process modelling & process optimization Stakeholder analysis and Business Process Analysis Business Use Cases and design Business process automation tools Academic Language Skills (0 credits) Improve your English language and academic skills ready to succeed in your university career and beyond.
Develop your reading, writing, speaking and listening to a UK university level Gain useful knowledge on referencing, writing with clarity, speaking with precision Learn through interactive activities and discussion Practise your skills through group discussions, solving problems and working in teams Developing Digital and Professional Competence Develop your understanding of essential digital and professional competencies as well as personal and professional development processes.
Following your internship, consultancy or professional practice, learn to reflect on your learning, skills and competencies strengths Conduct a self-analysis of your competencies and identify your strengths Update your CV alongside a continuing personal and professional competence development plan Contemporary Issues in Computing and Digital Technologies Learn about developments in Computing and Digital Technologies, as you prepare for your experiential learning semester, where you will be working with a range of employers facing contemporary organisational challenges.
Recognise, explore and develop knowledge and skills in areas of contemporary significance for the wider computing and digital technologies discipline Learn about technological developments, research and issues related with contemporary technologies such as Internet of Things (IoT), Blockchain, AI, Cloud and Immersive Technologies Focus on topics such as Cyber Security, Decision Intelligence, Data Fabric and Big Data Explore contemporary social, ethical and sustainability issues London Campus UG Internship (optional) In an increasingly competitive graduate recruitment market, you’ll need more than a good degree to get the job you want.
Graduate employers are increasingly looking for evidence of relevant work experience as well as academic achievement in candidates.
A semester internship enhances your employability prospects, making you more appealing to graduate employers.
You’ll get practical experience in your chosen field whilst developing skills you will need in the workplace.
You will also gain a better understanding of how organisations operate and will be able to apply this knowledge directly to your studies.
London Campus UG Group Consultancy Project (optional) Make the most of an experiential learning opportunity in a workplace setting, using the skills and knowledge acquired in your previous modules.
Deepen your knowledge and enhance employability in your specialist field Develop resilience and flexibility as you adapt to a different learning environment Boost your problem solving, theoretical and practical skills to implement a work-based group consultancy project Develop hands-on experience of working on a real life project London Campus UG Professional Practice (optional) Develop your self-guided learning skills and knowledge within the context of subject specialisms of your choice.
Conduct a skills analysis to identify further opportunities for training relevant to your ambitions Get support by the module academic team, your personal tutor, academic supervisor and careers team Embark on relevant training, in the form of technical training delivered in class, online learning, a mini project, or another appropriate form approved by the academic team Gain key skills to then focus on a specified project or business challenge
With more organisations using the cloud for storing sensitive data, gaining a solid knowledge and critical understanding of fundamental concepts, principles and technologies in Cloud Computing will provide invaluable insight for your experiential learning semester and future career.
Cyber Security Gain an in-depth understanding of the changing cyber landscape as a result of digital transformation and rise of machine-to-machine communication.
Gain an in-depth understanding of the changing cyber landscape as a result of digital transformation and rise of machine-to-machine communication.
Systems and Processes in Business Context Within the module you will determine steps to ensure business processes are aligned with business strategies, operations and the role of business.
Within the module you will determine steps to ensure business processes are aligned with business strategies, operations and the role of business.
Indicative topics include but not limited to the following;
Academic Language Skills (0 credits) Improve your English language and academic skills ready to succeed in your university career and beyond.
Improve your English language and academic skills ready to succeed in your university career and beyond.
Developing Digital and Professional Competence Develop your understanding of essential digital and professional competencies as well as personal and professional development processes.
Develop your understanding of essential digital and professional competencies as well as personal and professional development processes.
Contemporary Issues in Computing and Digital Technologies Learn about developments in Computing and Digital Technologies, as you prepare for your experiential learning semester, where you will be working with a range of employers facing contemporary organisational challenges.
Learn about developments in Computing and Digital Technologies, as you prepare for your experiential learning semester, where you will be working with a range of employers facing contemporary organisational challenges.
London Campus UG Internship (optional) In an increasingly competitive graduate recruitment market, you’ll need more than a good degree to get the job you want.
In an increasingly competitive graduate recruitment market, you’ll need more than a good degree to get the job you want.
Make the most of an experiential learning opportunity in a workplace setting, using the skills and knowledge acquired in your previous modules.
London Campus UG Professional Practice (optional) Develop your self-guided learning skills and knowledge within the context of subject specialisms of your choice.
Develop your self-guided learning skills and knowledge within the context of subject specialisms of your choice.
Technology Strategy and Leadership for Sustainability Explore research-based practices of leadership and technology strategies for sustainability, while understanding the personal and professional challenges these involve.
Learn to draw on reflective practice both from a strategic and influential point of view, as well as for moment-to-moment choices Review how strategic environment and competitive advantage can affect a sustainable environment and how to overcome these challenges Conduct self-analysis by using various self-assessment tools and reflect on your strengths and areas for further development Learn how technology strategy and leadership help to go beyond conventional notions and challenge current formulations of society and business Academic Language Skills for Northumbria London Campus Improve your study, language and communication skills for academic purposes in the study of your chosen discipline.
Become an independent learner through a mixture of formal teaching sessions and tutor-directed study and independent reading Make the most of interactive workshops Learn through activities including pre-reading, preparation, reflection and using the e-learning platform Identify and develop all the key skills needed on your programme UG Project (40 credits) In this year-long module, you will have the opportunity to work independently to research and build a significant computing solution directly related to your specialist programme of study.
Apply a wide range of development skills (in specification, design and implementation) to your product development Gain practical experience of all aspects of the development life cycle Examine wider legal, ethical, social and professional implications Understand the responsibilities involved in the development and use of computer products Present your work in a written report and in a presentation, boosting your employability Programming for AI Develop critical knowledge, practical experience and skills enabling you to understand statistical methods and programming surrounding Artificial Intelligence (AI).
Make the most of both theoretical and practical approaches Gain key skills to engage within AI and wider Data Science problems in business environments Learn the procedures and technological solutions for modern data collection, processing, and analysis Develop programming skills for AI problem solving using platforms and programming tools such as R, Python, PyTorch, NumPy or similar Machine Learning on Cloud Develop critical understanding and practical knowledge of Machine Learning algorithms – more specifically using Cloud and its benefits.
Get the opportunity to learn various machine learning techniques for pre-processing, classification, clustering, and regression Develop skills on how to apply supervised, unsupervised and reinforcement learning using cloud platforms and tools Learn to critically evaluate the role of ethics and sustainability, within the context of use of cloud-based machine learning application Contemporary Issues and Technologies in AI Learn about AI developments both from a theoretical and technological perspective.
Learn to stay up-to-date in your expert knowledge and understanding of contemporary research and technological developments Make the most of a syllabus shaped by current research and technological developments relevant to AI in various fields including business, banking & finance, healthcare, manufacturing, creative art, fashion, gaming, retail and more Learn from case studies of businesses who have successfully implemented AI Technologies Explore state-of-the-art AI technologies transforming businesses and society including Machine Learning & Deep Learning, Big Data, Natural Language Processing, Natural Language Generation, Cloud, Internet of Things (IoT), Blockchain and more
Explore research-based practices of leadership and technology strategies for sustainability, while understanding the personal and professional challenges these involve.
Academic Language Skills for Northumbria London Campus Improve your study, language and communication skills for academic purposes in the study of your chosen discipline.
Improve your study, language and communication skills for academic purposes in the study of your chosen discipline.
UG Project (40 credits) In this year-long module, you will have the opportunity to work independently to research and build a significant computing solution directly related to your specialist programme of study.
In this year-long module, you will have the opportunity to work independently to research and build a significant computing solution directly related to your specialist programme of study.
Programming for AI Develop critical knowledge, practical experience and skills enabling you to understand statistical methods and programming surrounding Artificial Intelligence (AI).
Develop critical knowledge, practical experience and skills enabling you to understand statistical methods and programming surrounding Artificial Intelligence (AI).
Machine Learning on Cloud Develop critical understanding and practical knowledge of Machine Learning algorithms – more specifically using Cloud and its benefits.
Develop critical understanding and practical knowledge of Machine Learning algorithms – more specifically using Cloud and its benefits.
Contemporary Issues and Technologies in AI Learn about AI developments both from a theoretical and technological perspective.
Learn about AI developments both from a theoretical and technological perspective.
Find out more about the services available to you on our Student Support page Access to online resources, including a 24/ 7 Library with over 400,000 e-books and 50,000 electronic journals Scholarships and bursaries for international students Depending on the country you are from, you may be eligible for a country bursary and/or scholarship when studying this undergraduate programme.
This bursary is effective for intakes in May 2025, September 2025, January 2026 and May 2026.
*As defined by UKVI Scholarships and bursaries Payment plans for self-funded students If you need support to spread the cost of your tuition, you may be eligible for our payment plan.
Institute UCAS code: N77 Course UCAS code: G515
Campus code: L
You can apply online to study the BSc (Hons) Computing with Artificial Intelligence Technology.
If you are unable to apply online, then you can download a PDF application form and email it to london.admissions@northumbria.ac.uk .
G515
112 UCAS Tariff points

GCSE  Maths and English Language at minimum grade 4/C, or an equivalent
1-3 years (depending on entry point)
January, September

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-computing-with-cyber-security-technology--full-time-london-subject-to-validation-uufctg3cyt:
Across the economy, around half (44%) of businesses have skills gaps in basic technical areas, and incident management skills gaps have increased from 27% in 2020 to 48% in 2024 (Gov.uk, 2024).
Considering the increasing number of Cyber Security threats in recent times, the UK Government Cyber Security Strategy 2022-2030 has highlighted the need for developing cyber security skills and knowledge to meet the skills shortage in the cyber domain.
In response, this BSc (Hons) Computing with Cyber Security Technology programme aims to develop your knowledge and skill set in information governance, information assurance, cyber security risk management, and penetration testing as a countermeasure against cyber-attacks.
You will also learn and develop skills in digital forensics.
The programme is designed for those, who wish to develop a broad understand of the computing subject area whilst also specialising knowledge and skills in cyber security technology.
It is also attractive to learners who may have related cyber security work experience and wish to gain an academic qualification in a subject area in which they are familiar.
This programme is specifically designed to enable you to develop in depth technical knowledge that will allow you to discover new ways to practice, design and secure computer systems to support the continuity of business operations.
To accelerate your learning, you will be exposed to theories, methods, tools, and technologies relating to cyber security, threat intelligence and vulnerability analysis.
You will also be exposed to the in-depth concepts, principles, technologies, and techniques of cyber defense and ethical hacking.
Apply a wide range of development skills (in specification, design and implementation) to your product development Gain practical experience of all aspects of the development life cycle Examine wider legal, ethical, social and professional implications Understand the responsibilities involved in the development and use of computer products Present your work in a written report and in a presentation, boosting your employability Digital Forensics Gain an in-depth understanding of the systematic process of identifying, extracting, analysing, and reporting digital forensics evidence.
Explore challenges related to digital forensics and the relevant legal frameworks, Learn about forensics investigation process, different file systems and counter strategies to mitigate cyber-attacks against the organisation Learn theoretical aspects of the digital forensics process and apply them through hands-on activities using appropriate tools and technologies Ethical Hacking Explore the changing landscape of cyber security and ethical hacking, while developing sought-after technical skills.
Understand the importance of information security in today’s world and the threats it faces Learn methodologies used by hackers and systematic processes of hacking phases.
Learn to gather target information using competitive intelligence and reconnaissance techniques Understand how to scan target hosts or networks to discover vulnerabilities Practise using tools and technologies including Kali, Metasploit, Ubuntu, Windows virtual machines, maltego, Nmap, Zen map, burp suit, HTTrack, OWASP-zap, sqlmap, ophcrack, Hashcat, Air crack-ng, Wireshark, Ettercap, autopsy and similar Cyber Security Governance and Assurance Understand the need for information governance in today’s technology-driven environment and increased regulatory obligations for businesses.
Gain research-informed theoretical knowledge on Governance Risk Compliance maturity module focusing on key areas of Governance Strategy, Internal/External Audit, Compliance Management, Ethics Culture, and IT Security Learn how to manage information risks caused by vulnerabilities which can be exploited by threat actors in the changing cyber security landscape Understand an organisation’s responsibilities including security incident management process, user access controls, compliance related to data retention, disposal, and record management
Digital Forensics Gain an in-depth understanding of the systematic process of identifying, extracting, analysing, and reporting digital forensics evidence.
Gain an in-depth understanding of the systematic process of identifying, extracting, analysing, and reporting digital forensics evidence.
Ethical Hacking Explore the changing landscape of cyber security and ethical hacking, while developing sought-after technical skills.
Explore the changing landscape of cyber security and ethical hacking, while developing sought-after technical skills.
Cyber Security Governance and Assurance Understand the need for information governance in today’s technology-driven environment and increased regulatory obligations for businesses.
Understand the need for information governance in today’s technology-driven environment and increased regulatory obligations for businesses.
Institute code: N77 Course code: G516
You can apply online to study the BSc (Hons) Computing with Cyber Security Technology.
G516

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-computing-with-data-science-and-big-data-technology-full-time-london-uufctg3dsb:
The UK economy is suffering a staggering annual loss of £57.2 billion as a result of a widespread data skills gap among workers in knowledge-intensive sectors (HR Review, 2024).
As a result, there is a strong need in the market for those with qualifications and skills in areas such as data science and big data technology.
This BSc (Hons) Computing with Data Science and Big Data Technology programme will prepare you for a range of careers in Big Data and Data Science including technical, management, and leadership opportunities in this discipline.
This programme is designed for those, who wish to study a broad-based computing programme with a specialism in data science and big data technology.
It is also attractive to learners who have related Data Science or IT work experience and wish to gain an academic qualification in a subject area in which they are familiar.
This programme is specifically designed to enable you to develop in depth technical knowledge that will allow you to discover new data driven solutions.
You will also train and deploy distributed machine learning models using cloud-based platform such as Google Cloud, Microsoft Azure or AWS or similar and machine learning technology.
You will additionally be exposed to the in-depth concepts, principles, technologies, and techniques of big data analytics.
Apply a wide range of development skills (in specification, design and implementation) to your product development Gain practical experience of all aspects of the development life cycle Examine wider legal, ethical, social and professional implications Understand the responsibilities involved in the development and use of computer products Present your work in a written report and in a presentation, boosting your employability Data Science and Data Analytics Develop your critical understanding of the principles of data science and data analytics in applied organisational contexts.
Learn to apply data science and statistical techniques using data sets for emerging trends analysis Develop your critical knowledge and understanding of all areas of applied data science Develop the ability to apply statistical and data science methods to practical problem-solving using programming languages such as SQL, Python and tools such as Power BI, Tableau or similar Learn how to implement projects to analyse organisational data assets and create data-driven ideas to advance an organisation’s business intelligence Learn how to apply statistical thinking in the design of data collection, visualise data for business intelligence and construct descriptive, predictive and prescriptive models for future trends from data Big Data Analytics Understand the fundamental concepts and principles of big data and the analytical techniques and technologies used for big data analytics.
Develop the ability to apply statistical and big data science techniques to large-scale data sets using analytics frameworks Learn to analyse large organisational data assets Understand how to create data-driven solutions to real-world problem scenarios to advance the knowledge base used for business intelligence Develop practical problem-solving skills using programming languages such as Python or similar and analytical tools such as IBM SPSS or similar for big data visualizations Learn how to apply statistical techniques for data analysis and visualisation Gain key knowledge and skills to prepare you for roles such as Data Scientist, Data Analyst, Data Engineer and Developer, and Business Intelligence Analyst Machine Learning on Cloud Develop critical understanding and practical knowledge of Machine Learning algorithms – more specifically using Cloud and its benefits.
Get the opportunity to learn various machine learning techniques for pre-processing, classification, clustering, and regression Develop skills on how to apply supervised, unsupervised and reinforcement learning using cloud platforms and tools Learn to critically evaluate the role of ethics and sustainability, within the context of use of cloud-based machine learning application
Data Science and Data Analytics Develop your critical understanding of the principles of data science and data analytics in applied organisational contexts.
Develop your critical understanding of the principles of data science and data analytics in applied organisational contexts.
Big Data Analytics Understand the fundamental concepts and principles of big data and the analytical techniques and technologies used for big data analytics.
Understand the fundamental concepts and principles of big data and the analytical techniques and technologies used for big data analytics.
Institute code: N77 Course code: G517
You can apply online to study the BSc (Hons) Computing with Data Science and Big Data Technology.
Please note: For 2025 & 2026 applications, you will be redirected to the Northumbria website to select which intake you would like to apply for.
G517

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-computing-with-information-technology-management-full-time-london-subject-to-validation-uuf:
The United Kingdom IT services market size is expected to reach USD 112.5 billion in 2025 and grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 6.84% to reach USD 156.61 billion by 2030 (Mordor Intelligence, 2024).
This strong expansion demonstrates the need for professionals in computing and information technology, making it an excellent field of study for those seeking career opportunities in Innovation Technology Design, Business Intelligence and Software Development, including technical, management, and leadership.
In response, this BSc (Hons) programme will prepare you to develop in-depth technical knowledge that will allow you to discover new ways to practice, analyse, design, and implement software solutions, business intelligence, and innovative ways to support business operations.
This programme will provide you with a recognised undergraduate qualification in information management technologies This programme is designed for those, who wish to study IT management for a generalist broad-based qualification to further develop their knowledge, skills and careers.
It is also attractive to learners who have related IT work experience and wish to gain an academic qualification in a subject area in which they are familiar.
This programme is specifically designed to enable you to develop in depth technical knowledge that will allow you to discover new ways to practice, analyse, design, and implement software solutions, business intelligence, and innovative ways to support business operations.
To accelerate your learning, you will be exposed to theories, methods, tools, and technologies relating to the design, development and testing of innovative and intelligent applications and prototypes.
You will also be exposed to the in-depth concepts, principles, technologies, and techniques of collaboration, automation of software development process, data warehousing and design sketches.
Apply a wide range of development skills (in specification, design and implementation) to your product development Gain practical experience of all aspects of the development life cycle Examine wider legal, ethical, social and professional implications Understand the responsibilities involved in the development and use of computer products Present your work in a written report and in a presentation, boosting your employability Business Intelligence Learn the procedures and technological solutions for modern business data handling and management, understanding how Business Intelligence and Data Analysis bring cutting-edge technologies and modern statistical models together.
Understand the impact of mathematical and statistical procedures on data analytical processes Become familiar with data modelling and how it helps to construct predictions in business management and market development Gain knowledge on data handling approaches such as Data Warehouse and Data Mart Learn how to help a company to accelerate business processes and multiply its analytical power on day-by-day management through the use of techniques such as a data warehouse Design for Innovation Develop a creative mind-set through design thinking and innovative practice, allowing you to bring together knowledge and creativity to construct a viable computer solution, service or a product.
Practise using design as a tool for user-centred innovation Take your design and innovation ideas to wider user communities Get familiar with processes including requirements capture, ideation, concept design, development and rapid prototyping to deliver a functional proof-of-concept Get ready to succeed in later modules, final project and future career by demonstrating innovation and problem-solving DevOps Principles Develop career-ready in-depth knowledge of DevOps methodologies.
Explore how DevOps is used to represent and govern the IT infrastructure dependant organisation architectures Understand the technical and application services available to support business needs Gain hands-on experience in DevOps tools such as Azure DevOps, Jenkins, and Jira Develop your understanding of the digital requirements of real-life organisations Develop the necessary skills to deliver a working DevOps framework for an organisation
Business Intelligence Learn the procedures and technological solutions for modern business data handling and management, understanding how Business Intelligence and Data Analysis bring cutting-edge technologies and modern statistical models together.
Learn the procedures and technological solutions for modern business data handling and management, understanding how Business Intelligence and Data Analysis bring cutting-edge technologies and modern statistical models together.
Design for Innovation Develop a creative mind-set through design thinking and innovative practice, allowing you to bring together knowledge and creativity to construct a viable computer solution, service or a product.
Develop a creative mind-set through design thinking and innovative practice, allowing you to bring together knowledge and creativity to construct a viable computer solution, service or a product.
DevOps Principles Develop career-ready in-depth knowledge of DevOps methodologies.
Develop career-ready in-depth knowledge of DevOps methodologies.
Institute code: N77 Course code: G518
You can apply online to study the BSc (Hons) Computing with Information Technology Management.
G518

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-computing-with-technology-part-time-54-months-london-subject-to-validation-uupctg3tcn:
With 93% of tech employers reporting that they have experienced skills shortages (Hays, 2025), the need in the market for graduates with qualifications and skills in the field of computing and technology has never been clearer.
This BSc (Hons) Computing with Technology programme will help equip you with key knowledge and skills in cutting-edge computing technologies, allowing you to discover new ways to practice, analyse, design, plan, and implement network solutions to support business operations.
This programme is ideal if you wish to study computing technology and gain a broad-based qualification to further develop your knowledge, skills and career options across a range of computing and technology disciplines.
It is also attractive to learners who have computing and technology related work experience and wish to gain an academic qualification in a subject area in which they are familiar.
You will learn theories, methods, tools, and technologies related to the design, development, and testing of computing and technology applications.
You will also be exposed to the fundamental concepts, principles, technologies, and techniques of collaboration and automation of the software development process.
You will be able to apply these skills and knowledge to real-life situations, preparing you to succeed in your future career.
The programme will develop your skills and competence for a range of job roles, including roles in digital leadership and management such as:
Apply a wide range of development skills (in specification, design and implementation) to your product development Gain practical experience of all aspects of the development life cycle Examine wider legal, ethical, social and professional implications Understand the responsibilities involved in the development and use of computer products Present your work in a written report and in a presentation, boosting your employability Advanced Computer Networks Gain a critical understanding of advanced computer networks.
Learn the importance of emerging networking technologies, Domain Name System (DNS), Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP), Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS), Internet Protocol Security (IPsec) and other protocol layering Gain hands-on experience in subnetting, switching and routing concepts Develop problem-solving skills to deal with network design and configuration requirements Understand secure and efficient networks, and relevant legal frameworks that apply to network designs and troubleshooting Learn how to comply with a professional code of practice to adhere to legal and ethical requirements DevOps Principles Develop career-ready in-depth knowledge of DevOps methodologies.
Explore how DevOps is used to represent and govern the IT infrastructure dependant organisation architectures Understand the technical and application services available to support business needs Gain hands-on experience in DevOps tools such as Azure DevOps, Jenkins, and Jira Develop your understanding of the digital requirements of real-life organisations Develop the necessary skills to deliver a working DevOps framework for an organisation Enterprise Architecture Develop in-depth knowledge of Enterprise Architecture (EA) Modelling and how it is used to represent and govern the IT infrastructure dependent organisation architectures.
Explore the technical and application services available to support business needs Gain hands-on experience in Enterprise Architecture Modelling tools such as ArchiMate, Visualisation tools Practise using frameworks such as TOGAF (The Open Group Architecture Framework)
Advanced Computer Networks Gain a critical understanding of advanced computer networks.
Gain a critical understanding of advanced computer networks.
Enterprise Architecture Develop in-depth knowledge of Enterprise Architecture (EA) Modelling and how it is used to represent and govern the IT infrastructure dependent organisation architectures.
Develop in-depth knowledge of Enterprise Architecture (EA) Modelling and how it is used to represent and govern the IT infrastructure dependent organisation architectures.
Institute code: N77 Course code: G519
You can apply online to study the BSc (Hons) Computing with Technology.
G519

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ma-conservation-of-fine-art-easel-paintings-dtfcfp6:
This postgraduate programme aims to provide you with advanced knowledge
and skills in both practice and research for the conservation of easel
paintings.
Northumbria University’s Conservation of Fine Art MA is the only
Master of Arts programme in the UK that offers the specialisms in both the
conservation of Easel Painting or Works of Art on Paper.
Our Conservation of Fine Art Masters programme aims to develop your skills
in critical awareness, research, ethics and philosophy, art history,
conservation science and the care of collections, in addition to honing the
meticulous practical skills necessary to become a conservator.
It is the combination of meticulous practical skill, a sound knowledge
of science, and passion for the art and art history that makes this Masters
programme of interest to those from both a science and arts background.
Integrating a mix of studio practice, science and art history, the
programme covers a range of subjects.
You will study studio practice,
conservation theory and ethics, science, art history and technical art history,
preventive conservation and research skills.
The Conservation of Fine Art MA Easel Painings is a vocational programme
and on graduation we aim for you to have all the highly specialised knowledge and skills
to formally enter the conservation profession.
In order to broaden your cultural perspective and enhance your practical
learning experience, you will also have the opportunity to carry out a
placement in the Summer recess.
Students carry out placements in institutions
in the UK and globally; a number of
hosting institutions over the years have included the British Museum, the National
Museum of Australia, Royal Ontario Museum Tate as well as a number of
private conservation studios.
We welcome applications from students from a wide range of academic
backgrounds.
Students come from a range of backgrounds including Fine Art, Art
History and the Sciences.
You may also be interested in Conservation of Fine Art (Works of Art on Paper) .
If you’d like to browse what other postgraduate programmes we offer or have any queries, please get in touch.
The role of the easel
paintings conservator involves the general care, protection, repair and cleaning
of works of art in oil, egg tempera, distemper, acrylic, or other media.
This
includes works of art on a great variety of supports, including canvas, board,
wood panel and metals.
A professional easel painting conservator could be
involved with works of art as diverse as early medieval religious images to
large contemporary artefacts, often in mixed media.
Extremely high levels of
practical skill and intellectual understanding are required for both the
treatment and analysis of historical and technical aspects of paintings.
Detailed examination and technical interpretation of works of art forms the
basis of working practice, enabling the professional paintings conservator to
make informed treatment decisions.
The collation and dissemination of historical
and technical data stems from an in-depth understanding of the subject.
Opportunities for
employment can be found in both the public sector, in museums and galleries, as
well as within private studios.
Professional easel painting conservators often
liaise closely with a range of museum staff, including front of house,
curatorial and interpretation officers, when preparing individual paintings or
collections for exhibition, display, loan or long-term storage.
Other diverse
aspects of the work of an easel painting conservator might include preparing
paintings for transportation, couriering works, assessing environmental
conditions, surveying collections, report writing, planning and tendering for
work, carrying out research and public speaking.
Cultural partnerships are when institutions work together to promote art, traditions, or values.
At Northumbria, this includes museums, charities, and other education partners teaming up to create an enhanced curriculum designed to support your learning experience and employability.
These partnerships help you:
Students studying Conservation of Fine Art will benefit directly from our education partnership with North East Museums .
This may involve gallery and venue tours around the city.
Hear from our students Julia (Easel Painting) and Carla (Works of Art on Paper) as they share their experiences studying Conservation of Fine Art at Northumbria.
Julia Wejnar
Carla Salem
Get an introduction to Conservation of Fine Art and hear from a MA student.
Why Study Art and Design?
Offering the opportunity
for you to specialise in easel painting conservation, this programme consists
of four modules that explore a range of key areas of study, including
conservation theory and practice, conservation science, conservation ethics,
art history and preventive conservation.
The programme covers a range of conservation
treatments informed by current research in the field, and you will gain a
plethora of valuable technical and academic skills including; conservation documentation,
technical examination in addition to the structural repair, stabilisation,
consolidation and cleaning of works of art.
Most importantly, you will develop the
confidence and knowledge to critically evaluate your approach to conservation
treatments and become a competent, confident and reflective practitioner.
You
will also develop a sophisticated understanding of the history, identification
and deterioration of artist’s materials that are associated with easel
paintings.
Significant emphasis is also placed on ethics, advocacy, and
developing your research skills.
The programme offers a combination of
conservation theory and practice.
Through a series of focused practical
workshops, you will develop a broad range of skills in preparing and using
conservation materials and equipment.
Workshop activities are performed on a
range of materials: from original works of art to historically accurate
recreations that allow students to explore the limits of treatment that would
not otherwise be possible with original works of art.
Assessment focuses on your theoretical
understanding of practical methods and treatments in addition to conservation
science, preventive conservation and help to develop your practical and
communication skills and evaluate and reflect upon your conservation
decision-making.
You will begin to develop ideas for your
dissertation research in the first year and write a substantial dissertation at
the end of the second year demonstrating your knowledge and understanding of a
focused area of conservation theory or practice.
In additional to being practicing conservators and
conservation scientists, academic staff are research-active and regularly carry
out research and consultancy in the conservation and heritage science fields,
enhancing research-rich learning and teaching on the programme.
The content of the course also aligns with the
standards of professional bodies in the sector.
Throughout the duration of this course, you will
receive ongoing support from teaching staff to ensure you leave equipped with
the necessary skills and knowledge to successfully pursue a career within the
Conservation sector or a related discipline.
Dr Charis Theodorakopoulos
Nicola Grimaldi
Assistant Professor, Easel Paintings
Dr Richard Mulholland
Assistant Professor, Works on Paper
Penelope Banou
Lecturer, Works on Paper
The MA Conservation of Fine Art programme is
based at Burt Hall, a Grade II listed building, at the centre of Northumbria’s
City Campus in the heart of Newcastle’s city centre.
Burt Hall boasts two state of the art,
professionally-equipped conservation studios, together with a technical
examination and photography unit, a microscopy suite and a materials analysis
laboratory.
Conservation studios are equipped with local fume extraction,
tracked daylight balanced lighting, hot and cold low-pressure tables, heated
sinks with reverse osmosis and deionised water purification systems.
Each
studio also contains large video screens to which macro and micro imaging
systems are attached.
Students also have access to an important archive
collection of historic artists’ materials.
Xenon-Arc fadeometer (accelerated ageing)
Thermal and relative humidity chamber (accelerated ageing)
X-Radiography
Visible and Infrared Reflectance, and UV Fluorescence
Vis, UVf and Green Light Optical Microscopy (OM)
Polarised Light Microscopy (PLM)
Colourimetry
Glossimetry
X-Ray Fluorescence (XRF) spectroscopy
Imaging Fourier Transform InfraRed (FTIR) Spectroscopy
Students may also have the
opportunity to access other analytical facilities in the wider university, to
support their second-year dissertation research, where available.
One of the most important aspects
of the programme is the the development of your independent and self-directed
study skills via our online learning platform, Blackboard Ultra.
On this
platform, you will access bespoke learning materials via online lectures,
dynamic reading lists, video demonstrations, live online seminars and videos of
guest lecturers from the professional conservation field.
Burt Hall - built in 1895, by John W.
Dyson for the Northumberland Miners' Association; now part of Northumbria University.
Research-rich learning is embedded throughout all aspects of this
programme.
Our staff are continuously informed by developments in conservation
research and global debates on conservation theory and practice.
Our staff possess individual
specialisms within their field in areas such as the development and evaluation
of conservation treatments for paintings, the materials and techniques of
modern drawings, research on the conservation and safeguarding of cultural
heritage collections at risk in world conflict zones, studies in material
deterioration, the treatment of iron gall ink and oil paintings on paper,  and the use of gels and lasers for
conservation treatments.
The programme takes an
enquiry and research-based learning approach, which is strongly
student-centered, and provides students with the opportunity to develop and
enhance marketable skills in self-directed study, independent research,
interpersonal learning and communication.
You will be encouraged to
develop your own individual research  skills and knowledge in  a specialist area of the conservation of works
on paper.
Under the guidance of your assigned tutor you will design and
implement a significant piece of research for your dissertation in the second
year.
Throughout the duration of the programme, you will
develop employability skills, not only as a conservation practitioner in your
chosen specialism, but through participation in seminars and class discussions
where you will develop important ‘soft skills’, that will enable you to take
the first step in your career as a conservator.
Northumbria University is
committed to enhancing employability of its students by supporting students in
their career journey while on the programme and beyond.
In addition to
completing a professional placement to further enhance your development, students
have the opportunity to present their own research at the annual Gerry Hedley Student
Symposium organised by the conservation departments at Northumbria University,
the Courtauld Institute, London and the Hamilton Kerr Institute, University of
Cambridge.
Staff have a strong professional network which,
together with a worldwide cohort of alumni, assists in providing students and graduates with placement and job
opportunities.
Students are actively encouraged to organize and
participate in placements during the summer recess between year one and year
two in order to gain valuable experience that can be taken forward into the
second year.
We actively encourage students to join professional conservation bodies,
such as the Institute of Conservation ( ICON ), the International Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic
works ( IIC ) and the International Council of Museums Committee for Conservation ( ICOM-CC ), all of which have vibrant student and emerging
conservator networks.
Students are also encouraged to attend and speak at
professional conferences, particularly those that are student-led.
This helps you
to network with professionals and peers working within the profession.
You will also benefit from our formal partnerships
with the Northumbria University collections and archives and with several local
and national museums (for example: Tyne and Wear Archives and Museums, the Bowes
Museum, the National Museum of Scotland, V&A, and Tate).
We also have a
long-standing relationship with the National Trust in the UK, who have provided
students with opportunities for study and project work in the past.
On completion of the programme, students typically find
employment in galleries, libraries, archives, museums and other heritage
institutions, or continue their research to PhD level.
Northumbria University Conservation of Fine Art
alumni influence conservation and heritage policy throughout the world.
Some
notable alumni include; Virginia Lladó-Buisán, Head of Conservation & Heritage
Science, Bodleian Libraries; Britta New, Senior Painting Restorer, National
Gallery, London; Anne Slettemoen, Head of Conservation at the National Museum
of Sweden; Alan Derbyshire, former Head of Paper, Book and Paintings at the
V&A; Dr Bronwyn Ormsby, Principle Conservation Scientist Tate, and Nick
Dorman,  Chief Conservator Seattle Art
Museum.
A minimum of a 2:1 honours degree in a related subject such Fine Art, Art History, Conservation, or Applied Sciences, including Chemistry, Physics, Biology, Forensic Science, Polymer Science or Chemical Engineering.
although applicants from other related fields will also be considered.
Applicants with science backgrounds must have interest in learning about practical art, and arts graduates should have minimum grade 7 or higher in GCSE Chemistry or 65% or above in the  Chemistry for Conservators’ Certificate from the International Academic Projects correspondence course.
Applicants are required to have sound colour vision, manual dexterity, logical thought and the ability to apply theoretical knowledge to changing practical situations.
Applicants should also appreciate the integrity of works of art and have a sensitivity of approach, along with a calm temperament and infinite patience.
Full UK Fee:
                                £24,700
Full International Fee:
                                £41,900
Students on the Easel Paintings route are required to supply one painting at the beginning of Semester one, Year One.
A traditional aged, oil painting will be required for practical activities and exploration of selected conservation techniques.
Please choose a painting that is sufficiently deteriorated, so it offers various treatment challenges.
Students are urged to source work of low value: a maximum value of £50 is recommended.
It is essential that you acquire your own set of tools to avoid sharing and contamination.
The list below are the basics required to perform practical activities in commencing Year 1.
TOOLS        SUGGESTED SUPPLIER      COMMENTS
Black apron, smock,  or large cotton shirt/Amazon or Wilk/It must be black
Toolbox/Amazon or Wilk/No larger than 40 X 25 X 25
Tape measure/Easy to find from many DIY or hardware stores.
Scissors (Large & Small)/Easy to find from many DIY or hardware stores.
Stanley Knife/ Easy to find from many DIY or hardware stores.
Linen Counter or Linen tester/ Preservation Equipment  
Palette knifes (1 straight handle)/Jackson Art
Scalpel handles (Size 3 for small blades & Size 4 for large blades)/ Preservation Equipment   
Spatulas or filling tools (Small stainless steel)/Preservation Equipment
VA7045 -
Conservation Theory and Practice I: Easel Paintings (Core,30 Credits)
You will learn via lectures, demonstrations, practical workshops, set readings and critical discussion groups.
This 30-credit module provides a professional approach to core practical skills relevant to your chosen conservation specialism (Works of Art on Paper or Easel Paintings) and the related historic, scientific, preventive, technical and tacit knowledge of materials encountered within professional practice.
You will also develop reflective, ethical and critical awareness and a broad range of additional skills relevant to conservation practice including analytical, problem solving, evaluative and written communication skills alongside Health & Safety best practice.
Using real artworks and authentically constructed artefacts, the conservation practical workshops are logically arranged in a sequence that parallels professional practice.
This framework also continues throughout the Programme albeit with a new set of interrelated topics.
In support of conservation practice, of the Module is supported by Conservation Science and Art History lectures, which help to contextualise approaches to treatment.
Study in Preventive Conservation and Collection Care is also provided through a self-guided series of online lectures.
VA7046 -
Conservation Theory and Practice II: Easel Paintings (Core,30 Credits)
You will learn via lectures, demonstrations and activity workshops, set readings and critical discussion groups.
This 30-credit module provides a professional approach to core practical skills relevant to your chosen conservation specialism (Works of Art on Paper or Easel Paintings) and the related historic, scientific, technical and tacit knowledge of materials encountered within professional practice.
You will also develop ethical and critical awareness and a broad range of additional skills relevant to conservation practice including analytical skills, problem solving, evaluative skills and written and oral communication skills together with an indepth understanding of best practice in Studio Health & Safety.
Using real artworks and authentically constructed facsimiles, the conservation practical workshops are logically arranged in a sequence that parallels professional practice.
In support of conservation practice of the module includes sessions on Conservation Science and Art History, which help to contextualise conservation approaches and decision making.
Study in Preventive Conservation and Collection Care is also provided through a self-guided series of online lectures and an formative interactive test.
YA7000 -
Academic Language Skills for Conservation of Fine Art (Core – for International and EU students only,0 Credits)
VA7044 -
Conservation Project-Dissertation (Core,60 Credits)
You will have the opportunity to demonstrate your abilities as reflective practitioners and critical scholars by examining and engaging with a topic broadly of relevance to the field.
The module is designed to allow you flexibility of approach and outcome, reflecting the multi-disciplinary context of conservation and diversity of subject backgrounds with which each of you enters the programme.
You will have access to a series of presentations on research skills which will enrich your methodological training for the undertaking of this module (see ‘How will I learn on this module’ for further details).
You will select the form of dissertation that best suits your own individual research and practice interests, choosing from: 1.
A literature-based research project-dissertation, requiring a synthesis, critical review, exploration and further development of an academic issue or professional topic - using existing academic and scholarly literature and, if relevant, the interpretation of primary or historic sources.
You may also conduct qualitative or quantitative research enquiries within this format.
An applied research project-dissertation, requiring a technical or practice-led exploration of a problem centred enquiry, combined with scholarly review of relevant knowledge.
The applied dissertation normally involves you in developing an evidence base and interpreting primary data, you may undertake practical experimentation or scientific analysis, or may use secondary analysis of existing data.
You must apply to do the applied project dissertation, which must be pre-approved via Learning contract by the module tutor and supervision teams.
All students may complete a project-dissertation based on secondary literature or on qualitative or qualitative analysis.
The project-dissertation enables you to show originality in researching a question which has to date been little explored.
It also enables you to demonstrate project and time management skills in terms of completing a major project to deadline.
VA7047 -
Conservation Theory and Practice III: Easel Paintings (Core,30 Credits)
This immersive and challenging 30-credit module continues to provide a professional approach to core practical skills relevant to your chosen conservation specialism (Works of Art on Paper or Easel Paintings) and the related historic, scientific, historic, technical and tacit knowledge of materials encountered within professional practice.
With increasing complexity you will further develop ethical and critical awareness and a broad range of additional skills relevant to conservation practice including analytical, problem solving, evaluative, oral and written communication skills alongside Health & Safety best practice.
Science, an integral part in understanding the deterioration and behaviour of artist and conservation materials is supported throughout this module through labs and workshops, seminars or group tutorials.
Students will have an opportunity to explore materials using a range of analytical methods commonly used in the assessment of historic artefacts.
A greater emphasis is also placed in this module on independent research, professional advocacy, project management skills and situating conservation in relation to current and emerging international/global practices and debates.
Following on from the framework adopted in Year 1, the conservation practical workshops are logically arranged in a sequence that mirrors actual practice.
VA7048 -
Conservation Theory and Practice IV: Easel Paintings (Core,30 Credits)
Following on from the framework adopted in Year 1 and in Semester 1 Year 2, the conservation practical workshops are logically arranged in a sequence that mirrors actual practice.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ma-conservation-of-fine-art-works-of-art-on-paper-dtfcfq6:
The MA Conservation of Fine Art programme
(Works of Art on Paper) provides you with the knowledge and skills necessary for a career as a conservator of
works of art on paper.
This postgraduate programme aims to provide you with advanced knowledge
and skills in both practice and research in the conservation of works of art on
paper.
Northumbria University’s Conservation of Fine Art MA is the only Masters
programme in the UK that offers specialisms in both the conservation of Easel Painting and Works of Art
on Paper.
The programme aims to develop
your skills in critical awareness, research, ethics and philosophy, art
history, conservation science and the care of collections, in addition to
honing the meticulous practical skills that are necessary in becoming a
professional  conservator.
The combination of meticulous practical skill, a sound knowledge of
science, and passion for art and art history will make this Masters programme
of interest to those from both a science and arts background.
Integrating a combination of
studio practice, science and art history, the programme covers a range of inter-related
subjects.
During the course, you will study conservation practice, conservation
history, the history of materials and techniques, conservation theory and
ethics, conservation science, art history, technical photography, technical art
history, preventive conservation and research skills.
Additionally, you will be
introduced to studio management, the use of methodologies and materials in
conservation and good health and safety practice.
Conservation is a
multidisciplinary field, continuously informed by developments in cultural
heritage, visual arts practice, sustainability, ethics, cultural policy, and
materials science.
The spirit and day to day practice within the course
reflects the professional codes of practice established by the International
Institute for Conservation (IIC), the International Council of Museums (ICOM)
and United Kingdom Institute for Conservation (ICON).
The Conservation of Fine Art MA is a multidisciplinary
based programme and on graduation you will leave with the highly specialised
knowledge and skills required to  formally enter the conservation profession.
In order to broaden your cultural perspective and enhance your practical
learning experience, you will also have the opportunity to carry out a
placement in the summer recess.
Past students have carried out placements in studios
in the UK and globally and have included the British Museum, the Royal Ontario Museum,
the National Museum of Australia the Tate and a number of world renowned independent
conservation studios.
Typically, but not exclusively, students will have a first degree in  Fine Art, Art History or one of the
Sciences.
Students with a science background should be able to demonstrate
skill in practical subject area (eg.
painting, drawing, printmaking).
Students
from an art practice background should demonstrate a sound knowledge of
science.
You may also be interested in Conservation of Fine Art ( Easel Paintings ).
If you’d like to browse what other postgraduate programmes we offer or
have any queries, please get in touch.
The field of fine
art paper conservation involves the care, protection, cleaning, repair and mounting of a wide range of objects on paper.
These include prints,
drawings, watercolours, posters, portrait miniatures, historic wallpapers and
three dimensional objects, such as paper costumes and architectural models.
As
a support for writing, drawing and printing, paper has been in use for more
than two thousand years across many world cultures.
Thus, objects treated by
paper conservators are not limited to western works of art, but also include
Persian and Indian miniature paintings, Buddhist Thang-ka paintings, Japanese
wood block prints and painted scrolls and screens from China, Japan and
Korea.
Paper objects are
particularly vulnerable to physical damage, light, humidity and air pollution, as well as contact with harmful materials such
as poor quality backing boards and mounts, pressure-sensitive adhesive tapes
and ill-fitting frames.
Deterioration of paper can also occur through improper
handling and from the action of mould and insects.
Conservation seeks primarily
to stabilise the condition of a work on paper, preserve its physical and
aesthetic integrity, and ultimately promote its long-term preservation to
facilitate access, study and research.
Works on paper
often represent the most numerous objects in a given collection and therefore,
a paper conservator must not only possess the meticulous skill to carry out complex
treatment techniques on a wide range of individual items, but also be
responsible for the preservation and conservation needs of an entire collection.
Modern and
contemporary art on paper also presents its
own unique problems, particularly in regards to the widespread use of modern
synthetic paints from the mid-twentieth century onward.
This has led to the
development of a number of innovative and cross-disciplinary treatment procedures and collaborative
research projects.
The scope of the paper conservator’s work has therefore
significantly widened in recent years and the remit of the paper conservator also covers
development of collection care
strategies, management of exhibition and
preservation storage standards as well as engaging in research, advocacy,
public outreach and training.
The profession therefore attracts highly proficient
and academic individuals who not only possess significant practical skills but
also strong research and
interdisciplinary skills, .
The programme can lead to a wide range of opportunities for employment in the heritage sector.
Students studying Conservation of Fine Art can benefit directly from our education partnership with North East Museums .
Department Northumbria School of Design, Arts and Creative Industries
This pathway offers the
opportunity for you to specialise in conservation of works of art on paper.
The
programme consists of four intensive modules that explore a range of key areas
of study, including conservation theory and practice, conservation science,
conservation ethics, art history and preventive conservation.
The programme covers training in a range of
conservation approaches and practical treatment techniques, all of which are  informed by current research and ethical
practice in the field.
You will gain a plethora of valuable technical and
academic skills including conservation documentation, technical examination and
photography, microscopy, in addition to the structural repair, stabilisation,
consolidation and cleaning of works of art.
Most importantly, you will develop sound decision-making
skills and ultimately the confidence and knowledge to critically evaluate your
approach to conservation treatment to become a competent, confident and
reflective practitioner.
You will also develop a sophisticated understanding of
the history, identification and deterioration of artist’s materials that are
associated with works on paper.
Significant emphasis is also placed on research
ethics, advocacy, and developing your communication skills.
Workshop activities are performed on a
range of materials, from original works of art to historically accurate
recreations that allow students to explore the limits of treatment that would
not otherwise be possible with original works of art.
Assessment focuses on your theoretical
understanding of the condition and treatment of works on paper, conservation
science and preventive conservation.
Evaluation and reflection on your decision
making also assists in the development of key research and communication skills
that are required by employers in the sector.
You will begin to develop ideas for your
dissertation research in the first year and will write a substantial
dissertation at the end of the second year demonstrating your knowledge and
understanding of a focused area of conservation theory or practice.
Students also have access to an important archive collection
of historic artists’ materials.
The Arts department at Northumbria university
also boasts a fully functional historic papermaking studio with a Hollander
beater, historic moulds and a collection of historic papers.
As a Works on
Paper Conservation student, you will have the opportunity to access the studio
in order to develop a practical  understanding of the manufacture of western and eastern Asian paper
during your studies.
Practical sessions with the printmaking studio in the Arts
department also offer opportunities for students to study historic printmaking
techniques.
Analytical study of artists’ and conservation
materials and the technical examination of prints and drawings can be performed
in-house.
Materials analysis, subject to availability, may be carried out for
dissertation research in the second year.
In Burt Hall, students have access
to:
Our staff possess individual
specialisms within their field in areas such as the development and evaluation
of conservation treatments for paintings, the materials and techniques of
modern drawings, research on the conservation and safeguarding of cultural
heritage collections at risk in world conflict zones, studies in material
deterioration, the treatment of iron gall ink and oil paintings on paper,  and the use of gels and lasers for
conservation treatments.
The programme takes an enquiry
and research-based learning approach, which is strongly student-centered, and
provides students with the opportunity to develop and enhance marketable skills
in self-directed study, independent research, interpersonal learning and
communication.
Students are required to supply one framed black and white print and one watercolour (unframed preferably) for their studies.
These will be used for practical activities and exploration of selected conservation techniques.
Please choose artworks that are sufficiently deteriorated, so it offers various treatment challenges.
We suggest a maximum value of £100.It is essential that you acquire your own set of tools to avoid sharing and contamination.
The list below are the basics required   to perform practical activities in commencing Year 1.
TOOLS       SUGGESTED SUPPLIER      COMMENTS
Toolbox/ Easy to find from many DIY or hardware stores.
Tape measure/ Easy to find from many DIY or hardware stores.
Scissors (Large & Small)/ Easy to find from many DIY or hardware stores.
Small ruler/Preservation Equipment
Scalpel handles (Size 3 for small blades & Size 4 for large blades)/Preservation Equipment      
Spatulas (Small metal)/Preservation Equipment
Fine pointed tweezers x 2/Preservation Equipment
Brushes (Sable or equivalent brush type No 000, 00, 0, 1, 2)/Jackson Art/Kremer Pigmente/ Preservation Equipment
Brush (Large Synthetic soft flat edge )/ Kremer Pigmente
Brush (x 2 Hake brushes - Chinese made from sheep hair)/Preservation Equipment/Jackson Art 
Bone folder (152mm (6"") - one end pointed)/Preservation Equipment
Basic artist grade watercolour set (Chinese white must be included)
A range of:
-     Blacks
-     Earth colours
-     Paynes grey
-     Prussian blue,
-     Cerulean Blue
-     Cobalt blue
-     French
-     Ultramarine
-     Gamboge
-     Rose madder
      
-     Jackson Art 
Set of watercolour pans, not tubes
If the set does not include a pan of Chinese white, this can be bought separately
VA7049 -
Conservation Theory and Practice I: Works of Art on Paper (Core,30 Credits)
VA7050 -
Conservation Theory and Practice II: Works of Art on Paper (Core,30 Credits)
VA7051 -
Conservation Theory and Practice III: Works of Art on Paper (Core,30 Credits)
VA7052 -
Conservation Theory and Practice IV: Works of Art on Paper (Core,30 Credits)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-construction-management-extended-degree-uusxum1:
There is a growing need for managers who have expertise across construction, engineering and management.
You will study a number of construction-specific and management modules to give you the skills you need to manage a range of construction projects.
These include Construction Technology, Sustainable Future and Construction, and Data-centric Construction and Digitisation.
A particular strength of the course is the opportunity to undertake a year-long work placement with a construction/engineering company.
The course’s relevance and rigour is reflected by its accreditation by the Chartered Institute of Building .
Accredited Degree - Northumbria University holds Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB) Accredited Centre Status during the period 2022-2027 and are subject to standard annual monitoring, having been judged to meet the CIOB Education Framework .
Prospective members holding these qualifications have full academic exemption and once they have gained three to five years’ relevant work experience may enter CIOB membership as an applicant to progress towards Chartered Membership without the requirement for an Individual Assessment.
See other similar courses you may be interested in: Quantity Surveying BSc , Building Surveying BSc
UCAS Code Z035
Your tutors will use a variety of teaching methods including lectures, seminars and problem-based workshops.
We make numerous visits to construction sites so you can see how a building project ‘fits together’ and see first-hand how the construction process unfolds.
You’ll speak with industry professionals and learn about their skills and experiences.
The teaching will help you understand fundamental principles of construction
and gain experience in solving problems.
At first these problems will be clearly defined and then, as your studies progress, you’ll become expert in carrying out advanced analyses of complex and ambiguous issues.
You’ll identify innovative solutions that will take account of the realities of construction and what’s best for the wider society.
We offer a range of sustainability-focused modules throughout the course, specifically at Level 4 (KA4035 Sustainable Future and Construction), Level 5 (KA5055 Building Environmental Science and Services) and Level 6 (KA6053 Sustainable Construction Technology).
Assessment methods include written reports, portfolios, presentations, exams and debates on current construction issues.
The various methods will help you develop your skills in communication, cooperation and group work.
You’ll be taught by tutors who have many years of experience
in all aspects of the construction industry, from design to the completion of a finished building.
Their experience, combined with their on-going active
research, will provide an excellent foundation for your learning.
Our reputation for quality is reflected by the range and depth of our
collaborations with industry partners.
Northumbria has the advantage of being located in the North East of England,
which is a centre of manufacturing and technical innovation.
As well as Nissan,
the region’s #1 company, there is a strong concentration of automotive,
engineering, chemicals, construction and manufacturing companies.
Northumbria has excellent facilities to support your
learning, including the latest computer software that’s being used in the
construction and engineering industries.
In particular you’ll have the
opportunity to learn how to use Autodesk Revit, a Building Information Modelling (BIM) tool, and be supported in this process with professional training
materials from ‘White Frog’.
Technology Enhanced Learning (TEL) is embedded throughout the course with tools
such as the ‘Blackboard’ eLearning Portal and electronic reading lists that
will guide your preparation for seminars and independent research.
Our use of
lecture capture software will help you revise challenging material.
The learning environment at Northumbria University is enriched by constant
interchange with the construction and engineering industries.
The frequent
field study visits will give you multiple opportunities to speak with
construction professionals and take advantage of their experience.
View a Virtual Tour
Northumbria’s strong research ethos is an essential aspect
of how you will develop as a critical, reflective and independent thinker.
Our
problem-solving approach requires you to acquire a wide range of research
skills during the course.
In the final year you’ll undertake a major project
that will bring together all the skills that you have developed up to that
point.
Throughout the course your learning will be directly impacted by the teaching
team’s active research into their specialist subjects.
One of Northumbria’s
signature research themes is ‘Future Engineering’, which is about innovation in
the engineering and construction industries so that they are fit for purpose in
the 21st century.
We also have particular interests in novel construction
materials, Building Information Management, smart materials and sustainable
technologies.
Our research combines pioneering technology and unique industry partnerships while addressing issues with international impact
Digital Built Environment
Specific Research
Northumbria University Newcastle holds Chartered Institute
of Building (CIOB) Accredited Centre Status.
This programme is accredited by the CIOB (subject to
conditions), having been judged to meet the CIOB Education Framework.
Prospective members holding these qualifications have full
academic exemption and once they have gained three to five years’ relevant work
experience may enter CIOB membership as an applicant to progress towards
Chartered Membership without the requirement for an Individual Assessment.
The placement year, before your final year, will enrich your
experience and offer an extended opportunity to engage with industry.
We
encourage all students to consider undertaking a placement, though it’s not
compulsory and you can choose to complete the course in three years.
By the end of this course you’ll be in an
excellent position to apply for graduate training schemes and graduate roles in
construction management.
Our Careers and Employment Service offers resources
and support that will help you find roles matching your interests and skills.
You could also undertake further study at postgraduate level with a course such
as our Construction Project Management MSc.
If you decide to start up your own business,
it’s good to know that the combined turnover of our graduates’ start-up
companies is higher than that of any other UK university.
Whatever you decide to do, you’ll have strong employability as a result of
having acquired the characteristics of a Northumbria graduate.
These include
critical reflection and self-learning, collaboration and curiosity, and the
ability to apply your knowledge to solve problems in ways that are sustainable
and ethical.
KA4031 -
The Construction Industry and its Management (Core,20 Credits)
This module aims to introduce the UK and global construction industry.
The module will also develop your awareness of the academic theory and the industry best practices fundamental to the successful management of a construction project.
KA4032 -
On this module you will learn about the fundamental principles of the construction of new buildings set within the context of a typical domestic property, from the perspective of a construction manager.
As you explore the construction of new buildings, you will discover how each stage contributes to providing a comfortable and safe building, considerate of the environment and while being cost-effective.
KA4033 -
Built Asset Management (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will learn about the fundamental principles of the management of buildings from design and build to operation and maintenance/refurbishment, and ultimately through to demolition or deconstruction with a circular economy.
As you explore the principles of Built Asset Management you will discover the importance of balancing operational, financial, and engineering issues to ensure the provision of the most cost effective, functional, and sustainable building solutions long term.
Furthermore, the importance of building information management using digital technologies to ensure the safe and efficient management of assets is explored.
KA4034 -
Academic & Professional Skills (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will learn and develop the key intellectual, professional, and numerical skills, as well as personal attributes required for effective study and future graduate employment.
Teaching, learning, and assessment activities are tailored towards your degree programme, linking to substantive core modules; thus, providing an appropriate subject context for your studies.
The module aims to consolidate the process of induction onto your degree programme; thus, supporting your transition from further to higher education.
As part of this shift in academic culture, you will be encouraged to take increasing responsibility for your learning and through the development of reflective practice, develop ways of monitoring your academic performance and progress
KA4035 -
Sustainable Future and Construction (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will develop a critical appreciation of the Sustainable Development Philosophy, its principles and the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
These general sustainability concepts and developments are then addressed within the specific context of the construction sector and the built environment covering both old/existing and new/planned/prospective buildings and infrastructures.
KA5003 -
Advanced Construction Technology (Core,20 Credits)
KA5032 -
Contract Administration and Procedure (Core,20 Credits)
The common theme of the module will be to develop an understanding of the consultant’s (Quantity Surveyor) role in managing or administering the contract between the client (employer) and the contractor on construction projects.
You will be able to apply and develop skills through a range of seminar activities and online tasks which will provide verbal and written formative feedback in preparation for summative assessments.
The summative assessment will comprise a coursework at the end of the semester.
KA5055 -
Building Environmental Science and Services (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about the important role of the mechanical and electrical (M&E) systems installed into buildings which typically account for between 30 to 40% of a project cost and which can be challenging to schedule and manage on site.
A range of techniques will be used to help you build a solid awareness of the most common M&E systems and their installation options within buildings.
You will also learn how the building form and façade design have a significant impact upon the need for M&E systems and the buildings future energy use and carbon emissions.
To further strengthen your understanding in this area we will explore the difference between a regular building, designed to comply with the requirements of our UK Building Regulations, and a low carbon building, built to the Passivhaus Standard, both in terms of the implications on building fabric and M&E systems design.
In addition to legislative approaches, financial incentives and sustainability schemes are potential drivers of change and will be discussed in relation to how they influence construction industry projects.
You will also learn about the sequence of M&E system installation and how this fits within the overall project plan.
Special focus will be placed on systems that have a greater than normal impact upon the delivery of other tasks on site so that you are aware of some of the considerations that need to be held in mind.
We will also spend time learning to read a range of types of common M&E drawing so that you able to interpret them and ask intelligent questions when necessary.
Overall, the aim of this module is to help you understand that M&E systems are not a black box that can never be understood and to equip you with the knowledge and vocabulary to be able to hold meaningful discussions with all members of the design and construction teams, including the Building Services Engineer.
KA5056 -
Commercial Management (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn how the construction industry functions as a business and how finances are managed by construction organisations.
You will learn the processes construction organisations engage in throughout the project lifecycle which have implications for commercial outcomes for individual projects, firms, and the industry at large.
These processes will include procurement and contractual strategies, estimating and tendering practices, procurement of subcontractors and suppliers, payment for works and services, and cost management.
KA5057 -
Health, Safety and Wellbeing (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about the key requirements and management practices relating to health, safety and wellbeing within the context of the construction industry.
These include the likes of assessing risk, and ensuring safe systems of work are operationalised.This is a vital topic for the construction profession and is essential for future graduate employment.
KA5058 -
Employability Skills (Core,0 Credits)
You will learn interpersonal and work ready skills that will prepare you for placements and future employment within the construction industry.
KA5046 -
Work Placement Semester (Optional,60 Credits)
This module is designed for all standard full-time undergraduate programmes within the Faculty of Engineering and Environment to provide you with the option to take a one semester work placement as part of your programme.
You will be able to apply and evaluate placement experience to develop and enhance appropriate areas of your knowledge and understanding, your intellectual and professional skills, and your personal value attributes, relevant to your programme of study, within the appropriate working environments.
When taken and passed, however, the placement is recognised both in your transcript as a 60 credit Work Placement Module and on your degree certificate.
Your placement period will normally be full-time and must total a minimum of 20 weeks.
KA5059 -
Study Abroad Semester (Optional,60 Credits)
This module is designed for all standard full-time undergraduate programmes within the Faculty of Engineering and Environment and provides you with the option to study abroad for one semester as part of your programme.
This is a 60 credit module which is available between Levels 5 and 6.
You will undertake a semester of study abroad at an approved partner University where you will have access to modules from your discipline, but taught in a different learning culture.
Your study abroad semester will be assessed on a pass/fail basis.
It will not count towards your final degree classification but, if you pass, it is recognised in your transcript as an additional 60 credits for Engineering and Environment Study Abroad Semester.
KA6050 -
Management of People (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn through understanding the key requirements and practices related to the management of people within the context of the construction industry.
KA6051 -
Construction Project Management and BIM 2 (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about typical management practice and activity necessary during the delivery stages of construction projects.
There is a strong emphasis on the impact that effective project management can have during the actual construction of a project.
Topics that will be covered include construction project management theory, project control methods, appreciation of the impact that delays and disruption have upon project success and awareness of available project recovery strategies.
KA6052 -
Data Centric Construction and Digitalisation (Core,20 Credits)
Information and data have become critical and perpetual assets on construction projects.
The increasing adoption of digital technologies in construction projects are also changing the way assets are designed, constructed and operated.
This trend is changing the way existing processes/decisions are performed and is also enabling new decisions and capabilities that were not previously available to construction managers before now.
In this module, you will be introduced to the latest trends in data-centric construction and digitalisation.
You will understand how these support construction management decisions in projects and how they affect your role as a construction manager.
You will appreciate the performance gains they bring, and you will understand their adoption with organisations and projects.
KA6053 -
Sustainable Construction Technology (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will develop a critical appreciation of the technologies used to construct sustainable and contemporary buildings.
You will consider the criteria that dictate the appropriateness of building form and constructability within the constraints imposed by the context of user requirements, how the building functions, and the legislative requirements under which the building is constructed.
KA6054 -
Dissertation (Core,40 Credits)
This module is designed to support you in independently pursuing an original piece of research on a construction management topic of your own choice and aims to provide you with an opportunity to design and conduct a substantive piece of investigative work that is directly related to your programme of study.
You will develop expertise to achieve the following: • identify an appropriate research topic • critically review relevant academic literature; • formulate research questions/hypotheses and appropriate methods of inquiry; • collect your own data and/or using existing datasets and literature • analyse and interpret your results using appropriate quantitative, statistical and/or qualitative techniques, • relate your findings to existing and up-to-date literature and theory; • objectively appraise the ethical considerations of conducting research; and • independently manage and implement your own research project.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-construction-management-uuscum1:
UCAS Code K255
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Construction Management.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/construction-project-management-with-bim-msc-ft-dtfcpj6:
Construction Project Management with BIM MSc involves planning construction projects, managing supply chains, fostering collaboration among teams, and utilising Building Information Modelling (BIM) to enhance construction efficiency.
The strong demand for construction project managers translates to significant opportunities for you to pursue a well-paid, challenging, and international career.
The course is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB) and the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS), adding further credibility in the eyes of prospective employers.
This course is specifically tailored for individuals with some experience in construction or the broader architectural, engineering, and construction (AEC) industry.
If your background is in a different sector, you may wish to explore our Project Management MSc .
The course is accredited by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) , demonstrating a globally recognised standard of surveying education.
It is also accredited by the Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB), having been assessed to meet the CIOB Education Framework.
Prospective members with these qualifications benefit from full academic exemption and may join CIOB membership without needing an Individual Assessment.
Mode of Study 1 year Full Time 2 other options available
Agile Business Consortium Scholarship
You’ll undertake a Masters project that will hone your skills in evaluating and applying research techniques and methodologies.
The topic of the project will reflect your own unique interests.
Assessments are designed to give feedback as well as to monitor your level of achievement.
The assessed projects will enable you to test your skills in ways that relate to current industrial practice.
Specific assessment methods include assignments, written reports, exams, group presentations and debates.
The high quality of Northumbria’s research in Information Sciences is shown by the fact that 90% of our research impact has been judged to have very considerable reach and significance (Research Excellence Framework 2014).
These collaborations and links help inform our curriculums and ensure input from practitioners via guest lectures and master classes.
Construction Project Management with BIM Staff Profiles
Hazel Ponton
Dr Kelechi Anyigor
Dr SeyedReza RazaviAlavi
Dr Victor Samwinga
You’ll have access to industry-standard software such as Microsoft Project, Asta Powerproject, IBM SPSS and NVivo.
You will have access to the most up-to-date versions of Autodesk BIM software and other BIM-related learning materials including the ‘White Frog’ system.
The
24/7 University Library achieves some of the highest levels of student
satisfaction in the UK and has held the Cabinet Office accreditation for
Customer Service Excellence since 2010.
It has excellent digital resources with over 100 databases for independent learning as well as half a million electronic books and another 500,000 print books.
To facilitate group projects there are dedicated student working spaces, such as ‘The Hub’, an area that is well equipped for meetings and working with IT.
Discover more about the computing and group work facilities you'll use while studying Construction Project Management, as well as the wider department facilities.
Mechanical and Construction Engineering Facilities
Your project-based learning will benefit from the research activities of the teaching team.
Our specialist interests include information management, process improvement strategies, lean construction, project-driven organisations, innovation diffusion, 4D planning and scheduling, and construction project management.
Northumbria University is particularly known for working on Building Information Management (BIM).
Dr Marzia Bolpagni joins Northumbria’s Faculty of Engineering and Environment as a Visiting Professor, to improve EDI outcomes and mentor students towards achieving their career goals.
Northumbria appoints Mace Director as Visiting Professor
Mechanical and Construction Engineering explores a wide range of areas, including research into advanced materials, product development, environment and energy, and many more.
Mechanical and Construction Engineering Research
The course has the additional credibility of being accredited by the Chartered Institute of Building.
This will make it easy to demonstrate that you meet the academic requirements for chartered status.
When it comes to applying for jobs, our Careers and Employment Service offers a range of resources as well as support that’s available online and on a one-to-one basis.
This course will open up opportunities in management roles in construction-related organisations, particularly internationally-driven contracting companies.
Past graduates have gone on to work for companies such as Arup, Arcadis, BAM Construct UK, BDP, Bouygues Construction, Carillion, Kier Group, Laing O’Rourke, Mace, Mott MacDonald, Ryder Architecture, Sir Robert McAlpine, Skanska and Turner & Townsend.
Job roles have included BIM coordinators, design managers, digital engineers, directors, management consultants, project managers and technical specialists.
The course could also lead you to a postgraduate research degree such as an MPhil, PhD or Professional Doctorate.
Whatever you decide to do, you will have the transferable skills that employers expect from a Masters graduate from Northumbria University.
Faye Coates
Sarah Wrightson
Simon Bell
Steven Thirkle
Not participating will not adversely affect your course performance but if you do want to participate, you may need to contribute up to £250.
KA7058 -
Training in research methods provides researchers with an understanding of the “do’s” and “don'ts” associated with employing approaches to the collection and analysis of data.
Awareness of research strategies, designs, approaches, and techniques enables researchers to make informed decisions to implement these elements appropriately.
The module aims to inform and sensitise you to the choices available when planning to undertake your dissertation; this includes making you aware of a selected range of qualitative and quantitative research strategies, designs, and approaches that you can apply to collecting and analysing primary and secondary data.
Such awareness will enable you to make appropriate choices when executing your dissertation.
Of equal importance, the module will also introduce you to a range of academic skills and apps that will support you during your programme and while completing your dissertation.
KA7062 -
Building Information Modelling Management, Theory and Practice (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about the management, theory, and practice of Building Information Modelling (BIM), its scope and role within the construction sector and its application on construction engineering projects and their products.
There is a strong emphasis on the development of BIM, the impediments of its application in practice, and the advantages gained from its use.
Themes that may be covered include context and challenges of information management within construction industry business models, the origins of BIM in computer-aided design, significance of parametric modelling and interoperability, barriers to, and benefits of, BIM adoption across the range of donstruction industry sectors and actors, and reflections upon lessons learned from industry case studies.
KA7063 -
Procurement and Supply Chain Management (Core,20 Credits)
This module will enable you to explore the concept of procurement and supply chain management in the context of construction projects by considering the tools and frameworks available for effective partnerships to develop synergies across the supply chain to influence project value.
You will identify and analyse key contractual issues and assess the impact of and need for contracts across the construction project supply chain.
The themes you may study include the economic and social background to inter-organisational relations; stakeholder management, including ethics, quality management, organisational culture, working relationships and collaborative working, the function of contracts in the context of managing construction projects across the whole supply chain, contractual and commercial relations between the all parties within the supply chain including risk;  time, quality and cost management, and contractual issues, including performance; extensions of time, damages; negligence, termination, breach of contract and defects liability.
KA7064 -
People in Project Management (Core,20 Credits)
Group dynamics are the influential actions, processes, and changes that occur within and between groups of people.
Groups come in all shapes and sizes, and their functions vary.
To understand groups and their dynamics, you must understand how people interact and function while working together in formalised organisational contexts.
This module aims to unite and contextualise theories from psychology and the social sciences associated with team dynamics with theories from management and organisation sciences related to groups, teams, and management processes.
The overarching goal is to equip and empower you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to structure, participate in, and lead real, virtual, and hybrid project-orientated teams.
KA7066 -
Integrated Building Information Modelling Project (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn and develop professional skills appropriate for project management professionals operating within the context of architectural engineering and construction (AEC) projects which are building information modelling (BIM) enabled.
In this module there is a strong emphasis on management of the design process to formulate project solutions.
Themes that may be covered include management of the design process and the roles and responsibilities of actors involved in such project phases, further exploration of the background context of BIM, including a focus on its development and key issues such as parametric modelling, interoperability and information exchange processes, how to address the interaction and interface challenges faced by project teams and groups, and issues that affect collaborative project working including people, process, technologies and trust.
KA7067 -
Construction Project Planning and Delivery (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn new ways of managing projects within the construction engineering sector so that you can formulate strategies for innovative, effective and efficient project delivery.
The topics that will be studied include lean construction, total quality management (TQM) and continuous improvement, design, construct links - visualising the design process, (ADePT), value – client and end-user satisfaction, target value design (TVD), planning theory and practice, integrated project delivery (IPD), and relational contracting and collaboration.
KA7068 -
Research Project (Core,60 Credits)
The module will build upon the concepts and theories presented to you during the research methods module.
It will require you to develop, consolidate, and apply your independent research, academic study, and research project management skills to the investigation of a topic of your own choice (or a topic that has been pre-approved and recommended by a member of academic staff) that is relevant to your programme of study.
You will undertake analytical and evaluative research that will result in the production of a dissertation.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/construction-project-management-with-bim-with-advanced-practice-msc-ft-dtscjp6:
The Advanced Practice semester in your second year, provides you with the
opportunity to undertake a Live Project (including the possibility of live
research project work with staff), for one semester as part of your programme.
This experience gives you the opportunity to apply skills and knowledge
acquired during the taught part of your programme and to acquire new skills and
knowledge in an alternative learning environment.
Specific learning will be
defined in a personal learning contract.
The course is accredited
by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) , demonstrating a globally recognised standard of surveying education.
It is also accredited by the Chartered Institute of B uilding (CIOB), having been assessed to meet the CIOB Education Framework.
If you take this option, you will be assigned to our Architecture and Built Environment Research Group.
Mode of Study 2 years Full Time with Advanced Practice 2 other options available
Your Advanced Practice semester will be assessed on a
pass/fail basis and as such, it does not contribute to the classification of
your degree.
However, when taken and passed it is recognised both in your
transcript as a 60 credit Advanced Practice Module and in your degree title.
The 24/7 University Library achieves some of the highest levels of student satisfaction in the UK and has held the Cabinet Office accreditation for Customer Service Excellence since 2010.
The Advanced Practice semester may help you develop a track record of achievement that will help you stand out from other job applicants.
A two-year Masters course, like this one, may carry particular weight with employers.
The course could also lead you to a postgraduate research degree such as an MPhil, PhD or Professional Doctorate.
We are currently reviewing modules which provide opportunities to work with industry to gain real experience.
Modules will be updated in due course.
KA7057 -
This 60 credit module is designed for all full-time postgraduate programmes within the Faculty of Engineering and Environment and provides you with the opportunity to undertake a Live Project (including the possibility of live research project work with staff).
However, when taken and passed it is recognised both in your transcript as a 60 credit Advanced Practice Module and in your degree title.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/construction-project-management-with-bim-dtfcpf6:
Attain transferable skills in project management and develop specialist skills and knowledge of construction projects.
The course is specifically tailored for individuals with some experience in construction or the broad architectural, engineering and construction (ACE) industry.
If your background is in a different sector, you may wish to consider Project Management MSc .
Accredited by the Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB), having been judged to meet the CIOB Education Framework.
Prospective members holding these qualifications have full academic exemption and may enter CIOB membership without the requirement for an Individual Assessment.
This course is also available via full-time September start , or with the option of an advanced practice element.
It has excellent digital resources with over 100 databases for independent learning as well as half a million electronic books and another 500,000 print books.
Not participating will not adversely affect your course performance but if you do want to participate, you may need to contribute up to £200.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-quantity-surveying-construction-degree-apprenticeship-dupqss1:
The programme was developed in close collaboration with industry partners, to meet the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education (IFATE), Construction Quantity Surveyor (degree) Apprenticeship Standard, and the growing workforce skills needs of the construction industry.
This programme has
been designed to suit a national market with the lecture content delivered
online.
There will be no more than 3 days of
attendance per calendar year at regional hubs across the UK.
Degree apprentices on the programme who successfully graduate, will have career progression opportunities across the construction sector, in a range of office and site roles such as: Quantity Surveyor, Construction Surveyor, Construction Cost Consultant, Cost Engineer, Cost Analyst, Cost Manager, Project Cost Co-ordinator, Project Cost Controller, Cost Planner, Commercial Manager.
It usually takes
four years to complete the academic award and typically an
additional further six months to complete the End Point Assessment
(EPA) of the Degree Apprenticeship.
The EPA will be partly representative of the review
process required for chartered status of industry recognised institutions such
as the Chartered Institution of Civil Engineering Surveyors (CICES) and the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS), so Apprentices
will be ideally placed to also apply for professional qualification.
However, additional
preparation and payment would be required for this (details are available at
the CICES Membership and RICS
APC websites).
*Northumbria University also offers the Chartered Surveyor Degree Apprenticeship - Quantity Surveying BSc (Hons) .This
programme is for apprentices who are required by their employers to be RICS
chartered (MRICS).
It also usually takes four years to
complete this academic award and typically a further twelve-eighteen
months to reach Gateway before commencing up to twelve months to
the End Point Assessment (EPA) of the Degree Apprenticeship.
The
EPA can take up to an additional twelve months to complete and in
this case is the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) Assessment of
Professional Competence (APC), so the preparation and cost of applying for
professional registration is included in the Degree Apprenticeship.*
Apprenticeship Standard
Accreditation
This programme has Professional, Statutory
and Regulatory Body (PSRB) accreditation by the Chartered Institution of
Civil Engineering Surveyors ( ICES ) and we are actively
seeking accreditation from the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors ( RICS ).
Location Various Locations
Start September
Each year, Apprentices will typically take two modules in
Semesters 1 and 2, and one module in Semester 3.
Most modules take place over an 11-week
period with a single summative assessment in Week 12 or 13, followed by a break
of a few weeks before the next Semester starts.
The Professional Research Project module stretches over three Semesters
(May of Year 3 to Apr of Year 4), and is worth 40 credits, while all other modules
are contained within one Semester and are worth 20 credits.
The twelve technical modules focus on the Knowledge and
Skills required by the Apprenticeship Standard.
Topics include Finance and Accounting, Health and Safety, Conflict
Avoidance, Sustainability, Digital Built Environment, Contract Practice,
Construction Technology, Procurement and Tendering, Measurement and Costing,
Financial Control, Risk Management, Commercial Management and Planning.
The Academic Practice module introduces the academic skills
that will be applied throughout the rest of the programme.
The three Professional Practice modules focus
on the Behaviours required by the Apprenticeship Standards and enabling
Apprentices to recognise and evidence all of the Knowledge, Skills and
Behaviours that they develop over the course of their Apprenticeship.
These modules particularly prepare
Apprentices for their End Point Assessment, and also support them in choosing
and working towards the most appropriate professional qualification for them.
Each module
(with the exception of the Professional Research Project) includes one piece of
summative assessment including a range of types such as written reports, poster
presentations, oral presentations with visual aids, annotated spreadsheets,
drawings, online open book timed assessments, and portfolios of work.
Full module information for the programme is available below.
With apprentices employed throughout the UK, the programme
is primarily delivered by online sessions and resources, with the opportunity
for some face-to-face interaction at Northumbria University or regional hubs.
Apprentices will gain a theoretical understanding of the topics through live
(online or face-to-face) university sessions and online resources such as
recorded lectures, videocasts, podcasts, electronic books, journal articles and
websites.
Most of the Degree Apprentices’ learning will be in the workplace.
Involvement in commercial quantity surveying tasks will enable Apprentices to
put the theory into context, thereby cementing understanding.
For each
module, the apprentice will develop a Module
Learning Plan designed to achieve the Module Learning Outcomes via a series of
directed workplace learning activities, such as shadowing a colleague, visiting
a site or producing a poster.
A guidance document will be provided by the
university that outlines the principles of workplace learning and provides
examples of a large and diverse range of potential workplace learning
activities.
The apprentice must be employed in a full-time paid quantity surveying role and
must be allowed to spend at least 20% of their normal working hours in
activities related to their learning, throughout the calendar year, and
allowing for at least 5.6 weeks of statutory and annual leave.
The employer will
appoint a workplace mentor for each apprentice, typically their Line Manager,
whose role is to support the apprentice in identifying and securing
opportunities for development and evidencing the application of learning in the
workplace to meet the requirements of the Apprenticeship Standard.
For each academic module, the workplace mentor is expected to support the apprentice in developing their Module
Learning Plan.
This is a series of directed workplace learning activities
designed to achieve the module learning outcomes.
Apprentices will also
be supported by a workplace coach, appointed by the University, who will meet
with the apprentice and their workplace mentor at least three times per
year to review their progress and discuss any additional support needs.
The EPA will be partly representative of the review process
required for chartered status of industry recognised institutions such as the Chartered
Institution of Civil Engineering Surveyors (CICES) and the Royal Institution of
Chartered Surveyors (RICS), so Apprentices will be ideally placed to also apply
for professional qualification.
Additional preparation and payment would be
required for this.
More information is available at the CICES Membership and RICS
APC websites.
All apprentices are required to be in full-time employment to study the Construction Quantity Surveying Degree Apprenticeship.
Standard Entry
Applicants will need Maths and English Language at minimum grade 4/C, or Functional Skills English and Maths at level 2 and be able to provide evidence of these qualifications.
It is recommended that applicants have this qualification prior to entry, however if applicants are working towards this qualification, it is a condition that it is completed in advance of End Point Assessment.
The University will facilitate provision of Maths and English qualifications where this is needed.
DA4028 -
Construction Health and Safety (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about the UK’s framework of construction Health and Safety law, and the principles and responsibilities imposed by the law and other regulations in a construction environment.
You will learn to apply health and safety issues to all activities.
You will explore topics such as: •	UK's framework of construction Health and Safety law •	Health and Safety at Work etc Act 1974 and key UK construction health and safety regulations •	Statistical safety performance record and the types of accidents that occur within the UK construction Industry •	RIDDOR requirements to report and record accidents •	Health and safety risk assessment
DA4030 -
Introduction to Procurement & Contracts (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about the different types of procurement process and negotiation requirements, the different forms of contracts used in construction and why they are applied in different situations.
You will learn about the selection of and negotiation with specialist contractors for a construction project, applying different types of contracts to different situations and the collation and storage of relevant data and its analysis.
You will explore topics such as: •	Main and Subcontract Procurement alternatives – lump sum, measure and value etc.
•	Integrated supply chain and its potential benefits •	Supply chain procurement processes •	Supplier/sub-contract adjudication and assessment criteria •	Efficient and effective negotiations •	Key legal principles of contracts •	Main standard forms of construction contract (E.g.
NEC, JCT, FIDIC) •	Risk allocation of various standard form contract options (e.g.
Lump Sum, Target Cost, Remeasure, Construct only, Design and Construct) •	Collecting and recording contract data •	Contract review process to identify commercial risks and their allocation
Academic Practice (Core,20 Credits)
DA4033 -
Professional Practice 1 (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about and reflect on the development of professional behaviours as required by the Construction Quantity Surveying Technician Apprenticeship Standard.
You will explore topics such as: •	Code of Conduct and conduct regulations, ethics and professional standards relevant to industry’s recognised professional bodies •	Identifying areas for improvement and innovative solutions •	Identifying and planning own development needs •	Using own knowledge and expertise to help others •	Equality and diversity and the requirements of fairness at work •	Working with others in a collaborative and non-confrontational way
DA4039 -
Construction Technology & Sustainability (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about the principles of sustainability and issues in projects across economic, social and environmental aspects.
You will gain an understanding of different construction techniques and materials, the principles of design, and the most appropriate solutions for construction projects.
You will explore topics such as: •	Social, economic and environmental principles of sustainability •	Sustainability issues in the construction industry overall •	Sustainability issues in connection to associated technologies and regulations •	Elements used to construct buildings and a range of civil engineering infrastructure •	Technologies used to construct buildings and civil engineering infrastructure
Digital Built Environment (Core,20 Credits)
Professional Practice 2 (Core,20 Credits)
DA5040 -
Project Cost Control & Financial Reporting (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about the various forms of financial reporting on project progress, and become able to prepare financial reports, cash flow and cost forecasts for a construction project.
You will explore topics such as: •	Work breakdown structures and cost coding systems •	Project cost and value and their reporting •	Budgets and their use as a tool for effective project and business control •	Categories of change that commonly impact project cost •	Effect and impact of change to project cost •	Forms of reporting on project progress
DA5028 -
Procurement and Tendering (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about the main types of procurement and the related tendering and negotiating processes required to select specialist contractors.
You will explore topics such as: •	Governance processes and procurement policies for procurement •	Identifying, evaluating and developing project opportunities •	Tender Investment procedures and their documentation •	Parties involved in tendering •	Pre-tender contract review process •	Commercial services during business development and work winning •	Processes and mechanism for pre-contract identification and assessment of commercial risk •	Commercial responsibilities during pre-commencement •	Efficient and effective negotiations
Measurement & Costing (Core,20 Credits)
DA5042 -
Contract Practice & Dispute Resolution (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about how to evaluate construction legislation and various forms of contract used in a project, and become able to appraise the legal aspects of a project and select the most suitable form of contract to be used to ensure fairness and efficiency.
You will learn to apply techniques for the avoidance of conflict and dispute resolution between stakeholders in a project, such as adjudication and arbitration.
You will explore topics such as: •	Key principles of Contract law •	Standard Forms of Contract (e.g.
NEC, JCT, FIDIC etc.) •	Housing Grants, Construction and Regeneration Act, with regard to payment provisions and the consequences of non-compliance •	Impact of amendments and adhesions to standard form contracts •	Pre-tender contract review •	Notification, recording, evaluating and recovering Change •	Key risks and mitigation controls associated with project contracts •	Philosophies and practices of collaborative working and conflict avoidance •	Importance and benefits of accurate and timely record keeping •	Specific contract requirements for record keeping, notifications and the reporting of changes to project time (delay) and/or cost •	Project risk registers •	Society of Construction Law Delay and Disruption Protocol •	Dispute resolution methods, including arbitration, adjudication and litigation •	Arbitration, including procedural steps, timescales and people involved
Professional Research Project (Core,40 Credits)
Contractual and Financial Management (Core,20 Credits)
DA6027 -
You will learn about the principles of the financial and legal management of construction projects during the construction phase.
You will become able to monitor, report and defend project cashflows and profitability to the construction team, and critically evaluate and advise on financial implications of decisions during the construction phase.
You will gain an understanding of the nature of risk and its effect on the management of a project.
You will explore topics such as: •	Principles of the financial and legal management of construction projects during the construction phase •	Customer contract administration •	Applications for Payment by the contractor to the Client •	Customer contract change management •	Customer final account process and procedure •	Sub-Contractor Applications for Payment to the contractor •	Subcontract / consultant contract administration •	Subcontract / consultant final account process and procedure •	Key risks and mitigation controls associated with the project location and project team •	Impact of project risks on the commercial position
DA6037 -
Professional practice 3 (Core,20 Credits)
Building on previous Professional Practice modules, you will learn about the benefits of and process for professional qualification, the most relevant for Construction Quantity Surveyors being the Chartered Institution of Civil Engineering Surveyors (CICES) or the Quantity Surveying and Construction pathway of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS).
You will prepare for your end point assessment (EPA) for the Degree Apprenticeship, evidencing the Knowledge, Skills and Behaviours that you have been developing throughout your Degree Apprenticeship.
This will typically be partly representative of the review process required for professional registration, so this module will also support you in working towards this.
You will build on your understanding and application of the Code of Conduct and conduct regulations, ethics and professional standards relevant to industry’s recognised professional bodies, and explore additional topics such as: •	Modern slavery and its issues and laws in the context of the construction industry •	Managing client expectations and Quality Management Systems
Planning and Management (Core,20 Credits)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/creative-and-cultural-industries-management-dtfcci6:
The MA Creative and Cultural Industries Management course offers a practical learning approach.
Our flexible programme enables you to select a sector to focus on.
This will allow you to specialise in one topic, whilst also taking core creative industry management modules.
The course content will explore the challenges involved in combining culture and management.
You will develop ways to help improve the range of creative talent in the marketplace without disrupting creativity.
This Master's course welcomes graduates coming from any undergraduate subject area including our Media and Communication Course.
This course allows you to change career direction and focus more on cultural leadership and enterprise.
You will select your specialism during the course induction phase, choosing from:
Research Powerhouse: Learn with the best minds - 4th in the UK for research power (REF 2021).
This Creative and Cultural Management course is enhanced by our strong partnerships and links with leading organisations in the industry.
Many of our partners now also employ our previous graduates.
Our links with industry include; North East Museums (NEM) , Baltic Centre for Contemporary ART and National Trust .
You will also have the opportunity to do an 8-week placement in a creative or heritage organisation.
This will provide you with the experience of real time working, giving you a career edge.
This work experience can further equip you with the skills and knowledge employers are looking for.
Find out more information about ELCAS Funding .
Students studying Creative & Cultural Industries Management will benefit directly from our education partnership with Live Theatre , NEM , and The BALTIC Centre for Contemporary Art.
This curriculum support could include placement opportunities with Live Theatre, guest lecturers from NEM, and exhibition proposal opportunities with BALTIC Centre for Contemporary Art.
The ability to spot opportunities and to be entrepreneurial are skills that the course seeks to nurture and develop at each level, to best equip you to enter the professional world of work – whether it be creating your own cultural enterprise or working with existing ones.
Assessment methods include written essays and reports, as well as presentations, ‘live briefs’ and project work.
The final dissertation is a student led piece of work that provides the opportunity to establish yourself as an expert in the field you have selected to specialise in.
The eight-week placement is part of a core module, during which you’ll participate in and observe management and systems within a cultural or creative working environment.
While you’re there you will develop an idea for a project that ignites your passion, and is also relevant and potentially beneficial to the organisation itself.
You will be expected to identify an appropriate host organisation for your placement, but there is a lots of help and guidance available from your tutors and the Faculty Placement Office.
The range of possible placement organisations is as wide and flexible as possible, to allow you to tailor the experience to your interests and career aspirations.
You will benefit from their active partnerships and relationships with the region’s key cultural organisations, whilst surrounded by excellent examples of culture-led regeneration from those who put these policies into practice.
Our team will be on-hand at every step of your degree, ensuring you leave with confidence and a full understanding of all aspects of this fast-moving field.
Dr Martyn Hudson
Dr Julie Crawshaw
Dr Donna Chambers
Andrea Phillips
This includes facilities such as our University Library – which is ranked in the top three in the UK – in addition to other facilities such as our well equipped working space, The Hub, which is open 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Diverse facilities such as Gallery North @ University Gallery and dedicated performance studios offer research and learning space to enable you to develop your creative skills.
Technology is central to supporting your everyday learning activities, whether you are a campus-based or distance learning student.
Throughout your course you will have access to our e-learning platform, Blackboard, which offers access to collaboration tools and video/audio-enhanced features, electronic feedback, discussion boards, blogs and student websites.
We provide a supportive and informal learning environment, offering feedback at all key stages of your course.
Explore More →
Throughout the duration of your studies you will be encouraged to develop your own research skills to advance your understanding of the complex contexts and debates of the cultural and creative industries, and how these practices apply from a range of theoretical perspectives.
You will conduct increasingly independent investigations in response to set tasks, or investigate your own topics of interest within the sector, leading to a self-directed dissertation that will be focused around a subject area of your choice.
You will also be encouraged to take your place as a partner by contributing your knowledge to our learning community.
The employment patterns within the cultural sector are constantly evolving, with freelance, self-employment, enterprise, project and portfolio working being increasingly common ways of working.
This course will equip you with highly developed interpersonal skills, intercultural awareness, leadership and management understanding and competencies that will allow you to successfully work within this sector.
This course will also equip you with the necessary foundation to progress your qualification to PhD level.
Emphasising cultural leadership, enterprise and entrepreneurship, the skills and knowledge you will learn on this course will help you develop the professional competencies required to successfully pursue a career within cultural and creative industries management.
As an MA Creative and Cultural Industries Management graduate you will be part of an active global network that is enriched and supported by our partnerships with leading cultural providers in the region and beyond.
The ability to tailor your learning will also provide enhanced career edge, allowing you to focus on the areas of this course that closely match your own interests and career aspirations.
Throughout the duration of your course you will benefit from our close relationships with the cultural sector and cultural partnerships such as Tyne & Wear Archives and Museums , BALTIC Centre for Contemporary Art , LIVE Theatre , New Writing North , Tyneside Cinema and National Trust.
Your eight-week placement will leave you with added insight into the day-to-day workings of the cultural and creative industries, and how your skills and knowledge apply in a real-world environment.
Visit our alumni Facebook group to gain a better understanding of the students, networks, issues and job opportunities explored in this programme.
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree.
SM9727 -
Creative Industry Business Start-up (Optional,30 Credits)
This module is an optional module for students on the MA Creative and Cultural Industries Management who are thinking of starting up a creative industry business after graduation The focus of this module is to support you in developing your business idea into a real-life venture.
To do this we will introduce you to venture creation topics with a focus on sales and marketing through weekly lectures.
You will then apply these topics in creating a business plan for your own venture.
As well as learning how to develop your own venture you will explore what it is to become an entrepreneur.
To support you in becoming an entrepreneur will also cover topics which will support the development of your entrepreneurial capabilities.
Example topics which may be covered are: Venture development topics Lean start-up Business model canvas Developing your product/service portfolio UK Company law and business structures Developing business strategies Customer profiling and market segmentation Marketing for venture creation Digital marketing Sales processes for venture creation Entrepreneurial capabilities topics Goal setting and growth Developing critical reflection techniques Developing a growth mindset Experiential and self-directed learning Principles of coaching
VA7007 -
Framing the Creative Industries (Core,30 Credits)
The module aims to develop your understanding of the Cultural and Creative Industries and their role and function within social, cultural, economic and political contexts.
You will explore the theoretical and practical underpinnings of industry management in relation to policy, political economy and socio-cultural literature, policies, and professional and industry sources.
Using global, national and local case studies, you will examine topics such as creative and knowledge-based economies, creative cities, cultural value and cultural regeneration, linking theory to the current creative and cultural environment and practices such as those in the Newcastle-Gateshead region.
You will be encouraged to critically evaluate discourses and debates in the sector relevant to your developing professional practice as cultural managers, with particular reference to contemporary issues such as globalisation, digital technologies, diversified audiences, labour conditions and sustainability.
From this framework you will begin to formulate knowledge and ideas for your Masters dissertation.
You will begin to learn about how to conduct research, choose research methodologies and analyse research information.
With guidance from your tutor and fellow students, you will develop a formative and preliminal proposal for your dissertation, and this plan will be refined throughout the following semesters.
VA7008 -
Work Placement (Optional,30 Credits)
This module enables you to learn first-hand within a cultural or creative industry organisation.
It will enhance your knowledge of how a cultural or creative industry organisation functions, and your ability to critically analyse its structures and processes.
You will observe the principles of organisational management through your placement duties within a working organisation.
You will gain an appreciation of how an organisation’s governance, structures and systems are influenced by values, motivations, practices and working cultures on the ground.
VA7009 -
Music, Festivals & Events (Optional,30 Credits)
This module will immerse you in the contemporary world of festivals, events and music management.
You will be equipped and encouraged to critically evaluate economic, cultural, social, environmental and urban issues in the sectors relevant to your developing professional practice as a cultural manager.
You will explore the importance of topics such as digital technologies, artists, audiences, marketing, risk, impacts and money to the industry.
You will be challenged to think critically and creatively about the why, who and how of music, festival and events management, as a specialist area of the cultural and creative industries sector.
Sessions will include hands-on planning and programming as well as instruction and seminars by experienced professionals
VA7011 -
Cultural Heritage and Museums (Optional,30 Credits)
This module explores the principles, policies, institutions and practices of heritage management.
You will be encouraged to critically evaluate current discourses and debate in the museums and heritage sectors relevant to your developing professional practice as cultural heritage managers.
Through seminars, site visits and expert guests, you will develop your knowledge of the context and practices of museums, historic houses, monuments and archaeological sites.
You will engage with contemporary issues and challenges within the museums and heritage sector, encountering and analysing the different ways that heritage and culture are perceived, studied and communicated in different institutions and environments.
You will analyse and put into practice some of the important skills required in this sector, such as policy review, communications/marketing and programming/education, helping to develop your employability and enterprise skills.
VA7012 -
Galleries and Visual Arts (Optional,30 Credits)
This module will give an entrepreneurial and management focus to your creative interest in visual arts.
You will learn how to facilitate arts and cultural expressions in community and commerial art settings, developing skills in organisational management, partnerships and fundraising, gallery administration, planning of exhibitions and programmes, digital technologies and cross-media marketing.
You will be challenged to think critically and creatively about the why, who and how of visual arts and gallery management, as a specialist area of the cultural and creative industries sector.
Sessions will include hands-on planning and programming as well as instruction and seminars by experienced professionals.
VA7013 -
Cultural and Creative Industries Management Portfolio-Dissertation (Core,60 Credits)
The Portfolio-Dissertation provides you with the opportunity to demonstrate ability as reflective practitioners and critical scholars, examining and engaging with a topic relevant to the field.
The Portfolio-Dissertation allows you to demonstrate enhURCanced employability by developing expertise in a specialist topic and applying useful methodologies to answer a research question.
The module is designed to allow flexibility of approach and outcome, reflecting the multi-disciplinary context of cultural and creative industries management and the diversity of subject backgrounds with which each of you enters the programme.
You will select the form of Portfolio-Dissertation to suit your own individual research and practice interests.
To do so you complete a learning contract with the approval of the module tutor and supervisory team orientating you towards: EITHER A literature-based research dissertation, requiring a synthesis, critical review, exploration and further development of an academic issue or professional topic - using existing academic and scholarly literature and, if relevant, the interpretation of primary or historic sources OR An applied research dissertation, requiring a qualitative or quantitative application of research methods enabling you to explore a problem centred enquiry, combined with scholarly review of relevant knowledge.
The applied dissertation normally involves you in developing an evidence base and interpreting primary data, you may undertake observational data collection, or may engage in secondary analysis of existing data.
OR ALTERNATIVELY A work or practice-based portfolio-dissertation, locating the academic issue or topic within the material developed during paid / voluntary work, reflecting the student’s own practice or other relevant activity.
This portfolio-dissertation involves a evidencing a major project incorporating reflection on your managed practice or event, supported by a shorter academic dissertation (7500 words).
Projects may include events, commissioned reports, or website design.
All dissertations will have a strong underpinning of theoretical and research context and will require a thorough literature review.
VA7040 -
The Arts, City Development and Rural Planning (Optional,30 Credits)
City planners have long been interested in the role of the arts as a vehicle for realising their social and economic objectives.
And artworks, festivals and socially-engaged art projects have increasingly been integrated in rural development also (across academia and practice).
Giving focus to the potentialities of their role in positioning and translating the arts, this module explores the remit of cultural managers in the complex urban and rural situational context of social inequality and environmental catastrophe.
Specifically you will consider how place-based and policy-related initiatives have inter-related with the work of cultural managers to date, and model how these working relationships could develop in the future.
Drawing on the North East of England and other case studies from the 1990s onwards, you will consider the way the arts have been integrated within development strategies with particular focus on how artworks, cultural buildings, and festivals have been commissioned to ameliorate post-industrial decline.
You will give attention to the tensions arising from these so-called ‘culture-led regeneration’ strategies – between economic and social agendas and consider the role of the arts manager in relation to what the arts do, and can do, for our future.
You will develop methods, skills and attributes for developing, delivering and evaluating art and artistic projects in the social, economic and environmental context of the city-region.
You will identify and reflect on the values that are attributed to the arts in this context and consider how cultural managers can develop ways of working with other regional professionals to respond to the complexities of our human-nature environment.
To do so you will consider how relational theories and methods can inform the practice of cultural management in the planning context; consider how academic work can inform future practice; and how practice can inform academia.
Illustrative topics include: culture-led regeneration; cultural planning; neo-endogenous development; philosophical pragmatism, planning and the arts; public art; socially-engaged art practice.
VA7041 -
Curating Asian Art (Optional,30 Credits)
This module is designed to equip you with a range of critical, theoretical and practical approaches to curating Asian art.
It introduces you to histories of curating, as well as contemporary debates, drawing on art forms and collections from India, Tibet, Southeast Asia, China, Japan and Korea.
Through seminars, expert guest lecturers, museum tours and a curatorial project you will develop your knowledge of the ideologies, politics and practices involved in curating Asian art.
You will analyse different ways in which Asian art has been appropriated, interpreted, represented and exhibited at different historical periods and in different cultures, and will be encouraged to critically evaluate a range of displays.
You will engage with contemporary ethical debates relating to the exhibition of sacred/religious material in museums, the increasingly important role of communities in interpreting and developing collections, as well as arguments for and against restitution.
You will develop the critical judgment, reflective practice and skills appropriate to planning and developing strategies for curating Asian art.
The module introduces you to research methods that you will draw upon in the development of your assignments and personal research.
You will learn how to deepen your enquiry through sustained questioning into aspects of curating Asian art that interest and inspire you.
You will learn how to exchange and balance your experiences and ideas on the theme of curating Asian art with your peers.
You will also learn to conduct research at post graduate level and the skills to become a strong independent learner.
VA7053 -
Leadership and Management in the Cultural and Creative Industries (Core,30 Credits)
In this module, you will consider strategic leadership and management theories and the key business models applied in the different sectors of the cultural and creative industries.
You will also reflect on your own management and leadership skills and development needs in the context of your own creative work now and in support of your future professional development in the creative and cultural industries.
The emphasis throughout the module is on working relationships and how cultural leaders and managers of the future can develop their practice and respond to the complex challenges of our time.
You will identify and reflect on the unique leadership and management skills, capabilities and understandings required to deal with such complexities.
Cultural and creative organisations examined will include public-sector supported organisations and institutions at one end of the scale to micro businesses and individual creative businesses at the other end.
You will consider the political, social and economic environment within which leadership and management practices areshaped and interrogate the way that cultural and creative sector leaders and managers  respond to and work within this changing environment.
You will be encouraged and supported to consider your own leadership and management skills development needs in support of your own career progression.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/creative-and-cultural-industries-management-dtpcci6:
Our Creative and Cultural Industries Management Masters focuses on innovation and leadership in the creative and cultural industries.
This Master's course welcomes graduates coming from any undergraduate subject area.
Our links with industry include; Tyne & Wear Archives and Museums , Baltic Centre for Contemporary Art , and the National Trust.
You will also have the opportunity to do an 8-week placement in a creative or heritage organisation or to undertake a Module on Creative Industries Business Start-Up.
The placement will provide you with the experience of real time working, giving you a career edge.
The Business Start-Up Module will allow you to develop your entrepreneurship and enterprise by thinking about your own plans for cultural and creative practice.
Optional Modules running are dependent on student numbers.
Students eligible for ELCAS funding please click here .
This includes facilities such as our university library – which is ranked in the top three in the UK – in addition to other facilities such as our well-equipped working space, The Hub, which is open 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
As an MA Creative and Cultural Industries Management graduate you will be part of an active global network that is enriched and supported by our partnerships with leading cultural providers in the region and beyond.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/creative-writing-dtfcwr6:
The MA in Creative Writing at Northumbria offers you the opportunity to explore your writing craft at an advanced level.
You will gain a solid grounding in the techniques and skills of writing creatively, learn how to critique your own work and experiment with your writing voice.
A combination of core and option modules gives you the chance to develop your critical and analytical thinking.
This course builds on your passion for creative writing, enhancing your career prospects as you develop a portfolio that reflects a broad range of genres.
You will graduate as a critical thinker with skills that will help you make a big difference in your chosen area of work and creative practice.
Employability, in the form of critical and creative skills, presentation skills and reflective and evaluative abilities, is embedded into your course.
You will be able to demonstrate that you are self-motivated, show initiative and personal responsibility, and possess a thirst for independent learning.
During your course, you’ll be in constant contact with a range of professionals working in the arts and creative industries, helping you to build up networks and gain relevant experience.
All modules play a crucial role in developing the advanced skills and attributes necessary for employment, including effective time and workload management, oral and written communication, teamwork and creative analysis of complex problems.
The core module, Professional Practice, is designed to give you insights into the world of literary publishing.
You will graduate with a qualification which may enhance your promotion prospects in professions such as the literary industries, partnerships and agencies, marketing and advertising.
We have developed close links with organisations such as New Writing North and Live Theatre.
We are
very conscious of developments within regional writing and we aim to help you
to understand where your own writing fits into this context as well as the
wider literary landscape.
Given the postgraduate nature of this course the tutors (all published writers themselves) will be looking for signs of the ability to write at a professional level.
MA graduates have achieved notable success and we include Dan Smith , Celia Bryce and Helen Laws among our alumni.
There are also opportunities for you to advance your studies
further with advice in writing PhD and funding applications available.
Additionally, our publishing courses provide valuable insights into the world
of literary publishing, equipping you with the knowledge and skills to navigate
the intricacies of the publishing industry as you refine your craft.
For hints and tips on compiling your application portfolio, read this helpful article by current student, Nathan.
See
other similar courses you may be interested in: MA Publishing
Northumbria University chosen as a national hub for festival of humanities
The Chris K.
Jones Scholarships
Watch Programme Leader Prof Michael Green tell us about this Masters in a Minute (or so...) and then give a longer introduction to the course in a lot more detail
Northumbria Students showcase poetry, stories, artwork, photography, reviews, interviews, and much more.
Publishing creative and literary work throughout the university year.
ON EDGE MAGAZINE
Northumbria University's Online Arts Magazine →
FICTION & POETRY
On Edge Magazine
ARTICLES
What Makes A Short Story Publishable
Workshops, seminars, critiquing sessions and small groups led by writers and editors provide an intellectually stimulating environment within which you can develop confidence in literary forms and techniques.
You’ll produce a portfolio of creative writing, including an accompanying commentary for assessment for each module.
This is a substantial body of work that demonstrates your ability to develop your own writing voice and edit your own work.
You will build up your skills through core and option modules assessed by formative (non-graded) and summative (graded) assignments.
A virtual learning platform (Blackboard) offers you space to share ideas, engage with interactive tasks and access online resources including reading lists.
Our Creative Writing team is made up of award-winning novelist and poets, who are major figures in their field.
Furthermore, through our partnership with New Writing North, the foremost literary promotion agency in the north of England, we give you opportunities to meet and learn from agents, publishers, and writers from across the country.
Andrew Crumey
Tony Williams
The Humanities department is made up of a community of learners all the way through from first year undergraduate to final year PhD level.
All Humanities staff are engaged in research and actively create the knowledge that is taught in the department.
Our Creative Writing team are all published and highly acclaimed for their work.
Creative Writing students, as part of Northumbria’s Humanities department, have access to the new Institute for Humanities which houses a range of specialist research resources .
You’ll also get the chance to work with a range of cultural partners including New Writing North, who provide unique opportunities for creative writers.
The research of the Institute brings together the disciplines of Art History, American Studies, Creative Writing, English Language and Linguistics, English Literature, History and Media Studies.
Take a virtual tour of our world class campus facilities - including Lipman Building where you'll be based - explore the Institute of Humanities, and discover more about our CSE-accredited University Library.
Explore City Campus
Institute of Humanities
Northumbria's 24/7 University Library
Northumbria is rated in the UK top 15 for the quality of its English Literature, Language and Creative Writing publications.
You can explore some of the key themes here.
The Creative Writing team work across a range of genres and their interests encompass everything from identity, displacement and narratives of cultural difference to astronomy and visual perception, and how we represent animals in language.
You will join a lively community that regularly gives public readings and, through our association with the regional writing agency New Writing North, is formally involved with the Durham Book Festival and the Northern Writers' Awards.
Furthermore, you will have the opportunity to engage with the activities of the Institute for Humanities , which is home to five international journals and which regularly hosts an exciting range of seminars, symposia and conferences on topics as varied as Memory, Heritage and Identity; Transnationalism and Societal Change; Digital Humanities; Medical Humanities; and American Studies.
MA graduates have achieved notable publication success.
Dan Smith has published four novels, most recently My Friend the Enemy.
John Schoneboom’s debut novel, written for his MA, Fontoon was published by Dedalus in 2014.
Michelle Fox has set up her own film company ‘Duffel Films’ and is now developing other people’s film scripts as well as writing her own.
Helen Laws is now a highly successful TV scriptwriter who originated ‘32 Brinkburn Street’ for BBC TV and has written for ‘Casualty’, ‘Eastenders’, ‘Two Pints of Lager and a Packet of Crisps’, ‘Shameless’ and ‘Doctors’.
She said ‘the MA taught her the importance of story and gave her the confidence to keep trying’.
Celia Bryce is an acclaimed novelist whose latest book Anthem for Jackson is published by Bloomsbury.
Valerie Laws, poet and novelist, is best known for painting numbers on sheep and creating ‘Quantum Sheep’.
Her latest collection of poetry All that Lives is published by the highly successful Red Squirrel Press, founded by another MA graduate Sheila Wakefield.
Marion Husband graduated with a distinction in 2003 and completed her first novel The Boy I Love while on the course.
It went on to the top the Independent Publisher chart on Amazon.
Since then she has written five more novels.
MA graduate Sheila Wakefield founded Red Squirrel Press in 2006.
Since then the press has published over 200 poetry titles, and expanded to publish prose fiction through the Postbox Press imprint.
The Press has published new and established names including Andrew McMillan, Claire Askew, James Kirkup, William Bedford, Pippa Little and James McGonigal.
It is the publisher partner of the Scottish Writers’ Centre.
Staff Research Interests
Research Activity
Student Successes
The core module, Professional Practice, is designed to give you insight into the world of literary publishing.
MA graduates have achieved notable success.
Dan Smith publishes novels for adults and younger readers, most recently Boy X.
Celia Bryce is an acclaimed novelist whose book Anthem for Jackson Dawes was nominated for the Carnegie Medal in 2014.
Helen Laws is a highly successful TV scriptwriter who originated 32 Brinkburn Street for BBC TV and has written for Casualty, Eastenders, Two Pints of Lager and a Packet of Crisps, Shameless and Doctors.
She says the MA taught her the importance of story and gave her the confidence to keep trying.
There are also opportunities for you to advance your studies further with advice in writing PhD and funding applications available.
Explore our cultural partnership with New Writing North, and get some advice on compiling your application portfolio.
Student profiles Alumni profiles
Portfolio hints and tips
By former student Nathan Richards
Applicants without a degree will be considered.
Applicants will be required to submit examples of their creative writing with their application.
Those without formal qualifications will be considered on the basis of their creative writing.
When applying, prospective students should submit samples of creative work.</p</p</p</p</p</p</p</p</p</p
EL7010 -
Approaches to Writing (Optional,30 Credits)
On this module you will learn the basic techniques used in the writing of creative text.
Through discussion and analysis of examples you will develop an understanding of different kinds of narrative structure and poetic form.
This will form the basis for your development in reading as a writer.
In the practice of drafting your own creative work, (in workshop exercises and in crafting and drafting your own creative work), you will learn how to research your projects, and also learn about the technical requirements of different forms of text, the creative process required to draft creative work, and the practice-based concepts and terminology involved in reflecting critically on your own creative practice.
You will develop a practical understanding of how to offer critical feedback on your peers’ work and how to edit your own.
EL7011 -
Creativity (Core,30 Credits)
This module will look at creativity in terms of four main areas: History, Psychology, Culture and Practice.
The historical dimension will be a consideration of how creativity grew as a concept, particularly since the 18th-century.
The second strand would look at psychological thinking about creativity, e.g.
in the light of modern neuroscience.
The third looks at ideas of creativity as expressed by practitioners in specific contexts, e.g.
visual arts, music and literature, but also non-artistic areas such as science and business.
The fourth strand places an emphasis on you exploring your own creativity through exercises and tasks, and ideas generated by themselves.
EL7012 -
Experiments in Writing (Optional,30 Credits)
This module will concentrate on the ways in which writers have challenged, extended, and adopted for different purposes many of the more standard literary conventions.
You will consider a range of texts in which authors have self-consciously experimented with, parodied, or departed from traditional narrative techniques in overtly ‘metafictional’ works.
You will also engage with work that uses features of various literary genres in other modes, such as creative non-fiction, ‘new’ journalism, historiographical novels, the lyrical essay, and fictocriticism.
Experimental poetry and script may also be included as you bring these experiments in form to bear on your own work with a view to opening it up to new possibilities.
Exploring your writing through such radical play may not result in a commitment to an entirely experimental approach, but it will encourage an increased alertness to the significance of the creative forms in which you work.
EL7020 -
Professional Practice: Writing in an Industry Context (Core,30 Credits)
This module focuses on the workings of the writing industry, aiming to provide you with an awareness of the knowledge required of a practitioner working in that industry.
On successful completion of the module you will have gained an ability to edit work, write effectively within your chosen genre, and undertake research which allows you to understand the requirements of writing agencies and publishers.
Guest speakers will give you an inside view of the writing industry.
You will have an opportunity to meet writers, agents, publishers and other industry professionals.
This will give you knowledge and insight that you can utilise to develop your own career in the industry.
EL7023 -
Reading as a Writer (Optional,30 Credits)
This module introduces you to the interplay of writing and critical reading which is the basis of research in Creative Writing.
By examining a series of creative, reflective and critical texts, the module will explore how creative and critical works can inform and underpin each other.
It is designed to develop further the kinds of skills introduced in undergraduate Creative Writing as well as preparing you for study at doctoral level work.
EL7024 -
Writing Portfolio (Core,60 Credits)
This module allows you to produce a cohesive body of your own work that expresses their own creative voice.
The emphasis is on the production of a professionally presented portfolio of writing which demonstrates your awareness of the demands of the writing industry and the positioning of your own work in terms of the contemporary literary landscape.
Against this background, teaching methods are designed to ensure that on successful completion of the module you will have had the experience of planning, researching and executing a large, independent project.
You are encouraged, as appropriate, to pitch your work professionally.
eg pitching to agents and submitting work for competition.
EL7054 -
Creative Nonfiction (Optional,30 Credits)
“Tell all the truth, but tell it slant –“ Emily Dickinson Creative nonfiction can be defined as writing that employs elements of creative writing to present a factual, true story.
It might take the form of prose, poetry, verbatim theatre, or interview.
Because it uses artifice and the techniques of fiction but claims nevertheless to tell a true story, it poses questions about what we mean by ‘true’, and invites readers to reflect on their own knowledge and experience and on what is at stake when any story is told.
Creative nonfiction has enormous potential to explore emotion, unlock experience and create knowledge; it is also an increasingly popular genre among readers and editors, making it an attractive choice for aspiring writers.
This practice-based module aims to develop your understanding and practice of creative nonfiction across a range of possible forms.
These might include memoir / autobiography, travel writing, science writing, biography, eco/nature writing, personal essay, sports writing or auto-fiction, and others.
Reading as writers, you will analyse a broad range of texts by creative nonfiction writers, and investigate and discuss the creative and factual limits and possibilities of creative nonfiction.
You will consider the ways in which creative nonfiction is similar to other genres, as well as the specific challenges it poses.
You will experiment with a range of creative nonfiction forms, workshopping each other’s draft work within the workshop.
You will also be encouraged to look for publication opportunities for your work.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/creative-writing-dtpcwr6:
Our part-time MA in Creative Writing at Northumbria allows you to explore your writing craft at an advanced level, while offering a flexible study option.
Core and option modules give you the chance to develop your critical and analytical thinking.
You will graduate as a critical thinker with skills that will help you make a big difference in your chosen area of work and creative practice, a master's in creative writing can enhance your promotion prospects in professions such as the literary industries, partnerships and agencies, marketing and advertising.
There are
also opportunities for you to advance your studies further with advice in
writing PhD and funding applications available, and you can explore options
like pursuing a Publishing Masters to enhance your expertise in the field.
Watch Programme Leader Prof Michael Green tell us about this Masters in a Minute (or so...) and then give a longer introduction to the course in a lot more detail.
When applying, prospective students should submit samples of creative work.</p</p</p</p</p</p</p</p</p

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-criminology-extended-degree-uusxmg1:
This undergraduate criminology degree at Northumbria University is the ideal choice for anyone with a critical and enquiring mind.
If you have an interest in the causes of crime and victimisation, and the ways in which societies respond to crime, this course is for you.
You will learn from an experienced academic team who span from a range of specialist backgrounds.
Members of our team hold leading roles in professional associations, including the British Society of Criminology.
From day one you will gain invaluable insight into the complex areas of crime, deviance, and social policy.
As this criminology degree progresses, you have the opportunity to apply your knowledge to the real world via a work placement and a series of modules that allow you to plan, conduct, and analyse research first-hand.
Follow us on Twitter @CriminologyNU
Similar courses you may be interested in: Professional Policing BSc (Hons) , Criminology and Forensic Science BSc (Hons) and Criminology and Sociology BSc .
It includes a foundation year where you will develop an understanding of society, social dynamics and modern life whilst also enhancing your skills in research and analysis, and decision-making.
Your foundation year will cover the areas of sociology, politics, and criminology.
Through engaging with real world issues, you’ll begin to develop the critical thinking, communication and problem-solving skills that are essential for both further study and employment.
UCAS Code Z003
Department Social Sciences
Our Department of Social Sciences is a community that equips you to make a positive social change, become a critical thinker, a problem solver, and to challenge what you think, see and hear.
Partnerships and Engagement
News and Events
As one of the largest criminology courses in the UK we can offer a wide range of core and optional modules, giving you the chance to tailor the course more closely to your interests.
You can also choose from a dynamic programme of activities outside of timetabled hours which include workshops, talks from international criminology academics, criminal justice practitioners and ex-offenders.
Our students have access to a number of specially developed work placement opportunities.
These might be in the criminal justice field, for instance prisons or police stations, or in the voluntary sector.
Our wide ranging assessment methods vary according to the modules studied, but all assessment takes a student-centred approach and you might find yourself marked on anything from wikis, blogs, essays, exams, portfolios, group reports, presentations and individual research projects.
When you join the Criminology BSc course at Northumbria University you will draw on the expertise of our vibrant and dynamic academic team who combine high quality teaching with first class support and strong background in research led teaching.
All of the teaching team hold doctorates or extensive professional experience in the fields of criminology or criminal justice, in areas as diverse as police culture, domestic violence, hate crime and the regulation of the escort industry.
You will also benefit from our partnership with state and third sector organisations - for example, undertaking a work placement in organisations such as the police, prisons and third sector organisations.
Further, we regularly invite practitioners from the organisations to deliver workshops and guest lectures.
To help you get the most out of your degree, the Criminology team has developed a support framework to help you develop the skills to plan, manage and review your work, it also offers full pastoral support to help with any issues that may impact on your studies.
We are always looking for new ways to improve the learning environment and increase interaction with our students.
We draw upon technology to provide an interactive, dynamic experience that extends beyond the traditional study environment to help you get more from your degree.
For example, in lectures and seminars we use mobile technology software (e.g.
Socrative) so that you are able to participate and engage in real time.
Using our online virtual learning environment you can compose video podcasts and test your knowledge in our online quizzes.
We also develop your technology skills by asking you to collaborate with your peers via web-based platforms (e.g.
PebblePad) and to design posters and webpages.
View a Virtual Tour .
Research excellence is embedded into our teaching.
By involving our undergraduate students in current research developments we feel we are able to offer a broader learning experience and potentially improve your graduate prospects.
To keep up to date with contemporary criminological issues, all core modules are designed to develop your understanding of social and criminological theory and research methods.
As you progress through the course you will learn how to conduct research, critically assess the work of others, investigate and solve problems and to translate findings into intellectual questions and arguments.
Explore some of the research our students and staff are taking part in.
Centre for Crime and Policing
In Criminology, our approach to teaching evolves in line with changes in the sector.
Multi-agency working has become more commonplace and this has led to a greater need for graduates with highly developed inter-personal skills.
Research skills are also in greater demand than ever before.
The BSc provides you with the chance to take part in optional work experience modules and placements.
This includes working with the police, within a prison or within the public/voluntary sector.
There are also opportunities to spend a semester or year abroad to experience the study of criminology in an alternative culture.
We place a real emphasis on developing the transferable skills that will open doors to a range of criminology careers and advanced study opportunities.
These include writing, communication, analytical and problem-solving skills, quantitative and qualitative research skills, as well as the ability to work individually and in groups.
Our graduates go on to careers in criminal justice and social work settings; a number of students secured these roles where they were on placement during their degree.
Others go on to have varied careers in teaching, research, local and national government and third sector employment.
A number continue in education.
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Criminology.
AD3002 -
Crime and Society (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will be introduced to the concept of crime and its manifestations within society.
You will explore the different types of crime that exist and the platforms on which they take place; consider perspectives that help explain why these crimes occur; investigate ways in which we respond as a society to those who commit crime and look at different approaches used to prevent it.
You will also explore the different career and study routes that are available to you within the crime / criminal justice sector.
As well as the above core knowledge areas, you will also be introduced to and will develop key skills needed to understand and talk about crime within society and within a Higher Education environment.
For example, you will be introduced to different information sources; academic referencing; essay and report writing and presentation skills.
All of these will prepare you to progress to the next level of study.
AD3004 -
Sociological Imagination (Core,20 Credits)
This module will enable you to develop your knowledge and understanding of sociology as a discipline and to begin to develop your own ‘sociological imagination’.
Central to this is an understanding of how individuals not only shape the world around them but are also shaped by it.
This is the core focus of sociology and will be the focus of this module.
It will draw on contemporary social issues and problems to help you understand society and the role of sociology in understanding and seeking to change it.
This module introduces you to key ideas and vocabulary in the in the study of society, such as ‘agency’ and the notion of the structured social world and therefore the foundation of society such as the family, identity, the role of the state, crime and punishment and economic inequality etc.
Throughout the module you will be supported to be self-reflective about your place in the social world and to consider if your own attitudes and beliefs are the result of your own free will (agency) or the consequence of pressure from wider social forces, or maybe even both.
The module will introduce and assess a number of important academic skills including writing for academic purposes, accessing and evaluating different information sources, academic referencing, group work and presentation skills.
This module will prepare you for further study in higher education and, more specifically, for the study of the sociology and/or other social science subject areas.
AD3005 -
Politics and Decision Making (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will be introduced to the concept of power through which you will gain an insight into the world of politics and how collective decisions are made.
As part of this you will investigate who makes decisions, how decisions are made, what factors influence decision-making and what is the impact of decisions.
This will be examined through studying a number of real world, contemporary and often controversial issues, which will help you better understand domestic and international politics, political processes and the role of ideas in decision-making.
In addition to the above, you will also be introduced to and will develop key skills needed to communicate your understanding within a Higher Education environment.
For example, you will be introduced to different information sources; academic referencing; and writing.
AD3039 -
Big Ideas: Issues and Debates in the Social Sciences (Core,20 Credits)
You will be introduced to some of the key issues and debates in the social sciences such as those around a good life/society, democracy, citizenship, social change, mobilities, solidarities, power, culture and identities/self.
These issues will be illustrated through classical and contemporary case studies, demonstrating links to the undergraduate curricula in the social sciences, notably criminology, sociology, politics and international development.
A range of social scientists (from criminology, sociology, and international relations) will also reflect on how their disciplines have developed distinctive professional practices and identities as they have engaged with these ‘Big Ideas’ in recent years.
AD3040 -
Social Sciences Portfolio: Skills for University (Core,20 Credits)
Through this module, you will be supported to develop a range of skills which will be critical to succeeding with the foundation degree and your subsequent undergraduate programme.
Specifically, the module will cover: managing the transition to university life; key academic skills, such as referencing, research, communication and team-work;  Students will undertake a group research project, demonstrating and evidencing the broad range of academic, professional and personal skills which they have developed through their learning.
AD3041 -
Encounters that shape our worlds (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will (a) explore the meaning of encounters and the relevance of encounters to the social sciences; (b) consider the ways in which history and our understanding of society have been shaped by encounters and (c) consider the ways in which specific encounters can help us understand actions, events and ideas that have shaped our world.
Encounters offer a lens through which we can look at and understand concepts, ideas, and debates central to the social sciences, including globalisation, colonialism, imperialism, and knowledge itself.
Examples of the types of encounters this module looks at include the encounter between Moctezuma and Cortez in Latin America in the 16th Century (that laid the foundations for colonialism and exploitation of the global South), and the more recent example of Australians encountering Uluru in the 1990s, until that point called Ayres Rock, which allows us to explore notions of indigenous knowledge and land rights in former colonies.
Other encounters will be drawn from the breadth of human history.
Staff delivering the module will draw on their own knowledge, experiences, and research to develop interactive sessions around a range of known encounters that feature in contemporary literature.
CR4001 -
Explaining Crime (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will be introduced definitions of crime, a selection of crime types and to a wide range of explanationatory theories that  been developed to explain why people commit crime and how we night effectively prevent and respond to criminality.
Weekly lectures and seminars will provide you with the knowledge and skills needed to introduce you to theories  and  to understand their strengths, limitations and impacts in relation to how we understand crime and the criminal justice system.
We will explore a variety of theories associated with rational actor, pre-destined actor and victimised actor explanations for crime.
We will also explore explanations for green crime, integrated explanations that combine ideas from different perspectives, and  explore explanations that have attempted to explain why different groups in society commit crime.
We will explore the differences, commonalities and dynamic nature of these various explanations for crime , explore evidence to understand the explanatory power of the different explanatory theories and explore the policy and practice implications of the different theoretical explanations we cover...
The module will also introduce to students to crime victimisation and operation of the criminal justice system.
CR4004 -
Victims and Victimisation (Core,20 Credits)
Talk about crime often focuses on the offender – what they have done, why they have done it, what we happen to them and so on – almost to the point where the victims of crime is overlooked or even ignored altogether.
Criminologists, for instance, have often been accused of this.
Similarly, it is often argued that the criminal justice system has paid limited attention to victims of crime in their pursuit of ‘catching criminals’.
In this module, however, you will consider these arguments and shed light on the vitally important aspects of crime: the victim of crime, the wider processes of victimisation, and the service provision for victims of crime.
In doing this, you will explore the expanding work in the sub-discipline of criminology called victimology, and focus on three key issues: (1) the influence of social variables – such as class, age, race, gender and sexuality – on victimisation, (2) the relationship between victims and witnesses of crime; and (3) contemporary case studies – such as sex work, human trafficking, cyber-victimisation and hate crime – to see how victimisation operates within these issues.
CR4012 -
Real World Research 1 (Core,20 Credits)
This module will improve your quantitative literacy skills and aid you in conducting social research.
It will begin by exploring the key philosophies and approaches associated with quantitative methods.
It will then introduce the key mechanisms and approaches associated with quantitative methods of data collection and analysis.
The module will then explore the theory behind basic statistical procedures while simultaneously practicing that knowledge in lab-based session using a statistical software package.
CR4013 -
Crime Myths and Realities (Core,20 Credits)
Whilst learning about a number of significant criminal case studies from the UK, you will learn to develop critical thinking skills relating to crime and the way crime is researched, reported and represented.
In the course of the module, you will also learn some of the vital skills necessary to be a criminologist, relating to critical thinking, academic referencing, researching crime and society, and interpreting crime statistics.
CR4014 -
Identity and Diversity in Criminology (Core,20 Credits)
You will be introduced to a number of identity-based theories that will help you analyse the intersectional and historically rooted nature of crime, victimisation, and punishment in the UK and beyond.
Drawing on contemporary case studies and ground-breaking academic research, you will learn to develop your critical thinking skills in order to evaluate how (and why) diverse identities and demographic characteristics intersect to produce varied experiences of crime and justice.
Questions of oppression, representation, fairness, and equality will be raised throughout the module to help develop your critical thinking in this area.
CR4015 -
The Criminal Justice System 1 (Core,20 Credits)
The Criminal Justice System (CJS) comprises those institutions and agencies that are collectively responsible for managing a state’s response to crime and disorder.
This module introduces the key agencies of the CJS in England and Wales.
The aim is to understand the historical development of the CJS, what the agencies of the CJS do, and the constraints that they operate under.
The focus will be on the history, role and function of the police service, prosecutors, courts, prisons, parole, youth justice, and the probation service.
For example, students will learn about the early models of policing in Britain and its former colonies and the historical developments that led to the birth of the modern police force, before focusing on the role and function of the police and how the police role is perceived in the media and in popular imagination.
Similarly, students will explore the role and emergence of the prison estate in England and Wales, considering how prisons have been designed and managed over time, the impact on prisoners and offenders of policy changes over the last 50 years, and how news about the state of prisons is communicated to the ‘outside’ world.
Taking us up to the present day, the module will provide students with a firm basis to go on to explore the modern day CJS in global and comparative context in the follow-up Level 5 module The Criminal Justice System 2.
AD5019 -
Social Sciences Study Abroad (60 credit) (Optional,60 Credits)
The module will be assessed by conversion of graded marks from the host University.
Learning outcomes on the year-long modules on which the student is unable to attend the home institution must be met at the host institution, and marks from the host are incorporated into the modules as part of the overall assessment.
CR5001 -
Concepts, Perspectives and Theories in Criminology (Core,20 Credits)
Why do people commit crime?
Why does crime increase or decrease?
What should be considered a crime and how can we prevent it?
You will explore these and other questions through an evaluation and assessment of the different disciplinary contributions to the study of crime and its control.
The dominant theoretical orientation often presented as being most closely aligned with criminology is that of sociology, but any cursory assessment of the history, development and contemporary nature of the study of crime and control will show that it has been significantly influenced by psychology, psychiatry, economics, political science, law and biology.
Indeed, while the historical foundations of criminology lie in biological positivism, and much of the twentieth century saw a dominance of what can be called a psychological and sociological positivism, more recently the discipline of criminology can be said to be much more integrative comprising a variety of theoretical perspectives and approaches drawn from the social, life and physical sciences.
The module locates criminological concepts, perspectives and theories within this integrative framework as well as within their historical and political contexts.
The emphasis is on understanding explanations of crime, of harm and their control through the application of different conceptual and theoretical approaches to specific forms of criminality, victimisation and injustice.
CR5007 -
Sex Work: Theory, Practice, Regulation (Optional,20 Credits)
The module is split into three parts: In Part 1 you will learn about the diversity of the sex industry and competing theoretical perspectives exploring sex work.
We will explore the arguments of academics and scholars, as well as the lived experiences of sex workers.
Part 2 concentrates on the practice of selling sex and will explore the empirical, theoretical and sex worker written literature to answer questions like - what strategies do sex workers and clients use to manage the sale and purchase of sex, why do people sell sex, why do people buy sex, and who are the clients?
Part 3 explores key regulatory issues including: violence and sexual safety, policing and national/international regulatory frameworks.
Lectures and Seminars will explore and include case studies such as Sweden - where the purchase of sex is criminalised but not the sale, and New Zealand where sex work is decriminalised.
You will use your emerging criminological knowledge to explore the theoretical underpinnings of these frameworks, as well as the impact they have on the practice, health and safety of sex workers.
CR5008 -
Youth, Crime and Deviance (Optional,20 Credits)
Youth crime, acts of deviance and public and political attitudes towards young people are hugely contemporary issues and this makes youth crime a fascinating area of criminological study and one of much importance.
Through this module, we will critically discuss key trends in youth crime and deviance, the historical development of the concept of youth, public perceptions of young people, both classical and contemporary theories and perspectives of youth crime and deviance, the development of the youth justice system over time, and serious youth violence, which includes an exploration of issues such as knife crime, gangs, drug and county lines.
In addition to gaining robust knowledge and understanding of youth crime, and developing key academic and transferable personal skills, the module aims to inspire the next generation of academics, policymakers and practitioners dedicated to improving the lives of some of the most disadvantage young people in our society.
CR5019 -
Contemporary Issues in Criminality (Core,20 Credits)
Structured around key themes of contemporary global transformations and political economy, the module offers insight into contemporary issues in criminality.
Students will be introduced to a number of contemporary crime problems and will be encouraged to consider how the subjectivities, motivations, opportunities and modus operandi of perpetrators are shaped by contemporary structural, cultural and technological conditions.
The module is research-led and will reflect departmental specialisms which currently include state crime, rural crime, organised crime, drugs, white-collar crime and migration.
The module initially reflects upon the definitions and implications of processes such as globalisation and neoliberalisation in order to consider the logic underpinning our current global order.
Consideration of the way in which global flows, power dynamics and economic culture manifest within this context will form the basis of students’ analysis of contemporary criminality.
Throughout the module, students will be introduced to a number of key issues in criminality in a way that aims to consider the broad spectrum of criminal actors.
Moving beyond the narrow confines of a ‘traditional criminological focus’, students will be introduced to the criminal and harmful behaviours of those operating at various levels within society and they will consider the way in which criminal and harmful behaviours are shaped and facilitated by the contours of contemporary society.
The module thus aims to offer substantive knowledge around the nature, scope and dynamics of contemporary criminal behaviour but also to offer students a theoretical framework capable of capturing the forces which shape these realities.
CR5020 -
The Criminal Justice System 2 (Core,20 Credits)
Revisiting but developing on the introductory module The Criminal Justice System 1, this module offers students a view of the modern day criminal justice system, comprised as it now of both state agencies (such as the police, courts, prisons and the probation service) and non-state agencies (such as voluntary/third sector and private/social enterprise agencies).
Students will appreciate how the criminal justice system currently works with a range of offenders and victims, both at the statutory and non-statutory level.
As well as looking at the system in England and Wales, other comparative examples will be included to widen students’ knowledge of how justice systems operate in the global context.
For example, students will be introduced to some key contemporary issues in policing, focusing on recent trends in pluralisation, private security, and the increase in surveillance technology, as well as police governance and accountability in the era of Black Lives Matter.
Similarly, further in-depth examination of prisons and punishment will focus not only on the modern prison in England and Wales but also on policies and practices in Europe (including Nordic exceptionalism), the ‘Americanisation’ of the penal system, the role of privatisation on prisons and community sentences, and the effectiveness of retributive vs restorative justice practices and policies.
The module will also engage practitioners working in the criminal justice field where possible as a way of extending students’ knowledge and developing concrete ideas for pathways into employment and/or ongoing study.
CR5021 -
Crime and Media (Optional,20 Credits)
On this cutting-edge module, you will explore the important relationship between crime and media.
The module explores the content, context and consequences of mediated representations of crime, policing and punishment.
It draws on academic debates in criminology and beyond and is interested in both factual and fictional forms of media, from television news to crime drama, social media to newspapers.
The module pays close attention to film.
Scrutinising classic and contemporary films, it considers their production techniques, themes, symbols, characterisation and their messages about crime and justice.
CR5022 -
Drugs, Crime and Society (Optional,20 Credits)
The first half of the module introduces students to key themes and debates in drug studies, with an emphasis on the relationship between drugs, crime, society, culture, technology and political economy.
We will cover cross-disciplinary theoretical, conceptual and policy debates, taking the study of drugs beyond mainstream approaches.
We will explore the impact of drug use and drug markets on contemporary society, including challenges relating to power, inequality, globalisation and new technologies.
The second half of the module covers several contemporary drug issues.
It offers in-depth examinations of drug use, supply, trafficking and manufacture on global and local levels, as well as responses from policy makers and practitioners involved in drug enforcement, regulation and harm reduction.
The module is designed to provide students with the opportunity to acquire expert knowledge of contemporary drug issues by drawing upon cutting-edge research.
Content will change annually to provide up-to-date research-led teaching and learning.
Current areas of expertise include: technology and online drug dealing; drug cultures and identities; health inequalities and harm reduction; narcopolitics and narcostates; and global and local markets in cocaine, heroin, cannabis, pharmaceutical drugs, image- and performance-enhancing drugs (IPEDs), and novel psychoactive substances (NPS).
SO5011 -
Real World Research 2 (Core,20 Credits)
Building on your learning from the previous year around critical thinking skills and research methods, the aim of this module is to enable you to become an effective qualitative social researcher.
First, we will revisit some of the key stages of the research process, including research design, planning a research project, writing a literature review, and the ethics and politics of social research.
Second, we will focus on the philosophies and methods used by qualitative researchers in a real-world context.
We will cover ‘traditional’ qualitative methods such as interviews, focus groups and ethnography, as well ‘contemporary’ methods including qualitative mapping, visual and digital methods.
Third, we will put that learning into practice.
In groups you will plan and carry out a qualitative research project focusing on a key social issue in Newcastle upon Tyne.
This will involve formulating research questions, planning a data collection strategy, collecting data, analysing data, and writing up your results.
In addition, you will also complete a research risk assessment and an ethics form – all essential components of the research process.
Learning from this module will support you next year as you embark on your dissertation project, as well as in future employment where research, people and analytical skills are much needed.
AD5017 -
Social Sciences Work Placement Year (Optional,120 Credits)
AD5018 -
Social Sciences Study Abroad Year (Optional,120 Credits)
CR6002 -
Contemporary Policing and Security (Optional,20 Credits)
From being a relatively marginal political issue, modern policing and security has risen rapidly up the social and political agendas of western societies.
As inequalities have increased, so the actual and perceived risks of crime and other social ills have grown rapidly for all sections of society: the management of crime has become a central concern.
In this module you will develop your critical understanding, analysis and interpretation of the key themes, theories, issues and political debates concerning the development and contemporary nature of modern policing and the delivery of security in England and Wales.
Where appropriate, you will be directed to comparative material from other countries and our discussions will draw upon these comparative dimensions to contemporary policing and security.
Given the ‘contemporary’ nature of this module and the continually evolving nature of policing and security, the content of this module is revised each year.
Examples of topics covered in previous years include: •	The changing role and function of the police •	Policing and Mental Health •	Terrorism and Insecurity •	Technology, Surveillance and Society •	Policing Globalisation •	Victimology and Policing •	Conducting Research in Policing and Security Settings
CR6004 -
Crimes of the Powerful (Optional,20 Credits)
Crime just doesn’t happen on the streets.
It takes place in homes, in offices, in natural habitats – places hidden from view and scrutiny.
Often it is kept hidden because of powerful actors.
You will examine a range of criminal and harmful behaviours, as well as deviant and anti-social activities under the organising theme ‘crimes of the powerful’.
The module situates and understands crimes and victimisations within a framework where questions of structural relationships and personal power in society are key to why some crime is visible and some is not.
You will be expected to challenge orthodox representations of crime and demonstrate an intellectual openness to new ideas, whilst adopting a critical and analytical approach to the control, regulation and prevention of invisible and hidden crimes and/or victimisations.
CR6007 -
Mentally Disordered Offenders (Optional,20 Credits)
Mentally disordered offenders: “mad, bad and dangerous to know”?
During this module you will begin to explore who ‘they’ are, what ‘they’ do, why we are afraid of ‘them’, how we identify ‘them’ and what we are doing about ‘them’.
You will learn about and critique mentally disordered offender theory and practice, including: developing a critical understanding to the concept of ‘mentally disordered offenders’; the links between mental disorder and crime; the links between the mass media and the public in the development of the concept of the ‘dangerous offender’; the development of Forensic Psychiatry and its impact on the concept of ‘risk’ and ‘risk assessment’; and a critical assessment of the impact of policy developments on approaches to the care and/or control of mentally disordered offenders.
CR6009 -
Work Experience Dissertation (Optional,40 Credits)
The module provides an opportunity for you to independently pursue your own piece of research based on work experience with an agency or organisation such as a police force, prison, youth offending team or voluntary sector organisation.
You can also gain experience of research by working with a member of academic staff.
With the support of a dissertation supervisor, you will seek to answer a research question either by collecting your own data, using existing data sets or by engaging in an analysis of the research literature.
Your chosen topic will be linked to your work experience.
You will draw on and develop your research skills and on completion of the module you will be able to demonstrate the following: an extensive knowledge on your chosen dissertation topic, successful execution of a research project, the ability to set and explore a focused research question, the capacity to develop a structured and analytical argument; an aptitude for the application of theory and methodology; and an understanding of the ethical considerations of conducting your own research.
CR6018 -
Crime, Animals and the Environment (Optional,20 Credits)
Is there a relationship between violence against animals and violence against humans?
Why is it okay to kill certain animals, but a crime to kill others?
How do large corporations get away with polluting the planet?
How can we address crimes against animals and the environment?
These are all questions we will attempt to address on this module.
As part of your studies you will learn about the emerging and competing perspectives and frameworks regarding the neglected topic of crimes and harms against animals and the environment.
In a module offered at very few universities, you are introduced to the philosophies and perspectives of Green Criminology and Critical Animal Studies.
You will develop skills that enable you to critically analyse notions of crime and harm, and social and ecological justice in relation to animal abuse, deforestation, wildlife, pollution and many other areas that pertain to green and environmental crime and victimisation.
While honing verbal and written skills, this module will give you the working knowledge to discuss the type, scope, and impacts of green and animal-related crimes and harms and how this is different from street and ‘traditional’ volume crimes.
This module provides a fresh new area of criminological scholarship which you will contribute to in discussion and debate with the module tutors and fellow students - examining crime from new and cutting edge perspectives.
CR6020 -
Understanding Extreme Violence (Optional,20 Credits)
This module looks at three distinct but inter-related aspects of violence: structural violence, symbolic violence and subjective violence.
Analyses of structural violence looks principally at the violence of systems.
It is the unseen violence that occurs every day; the violence that needs to take place so that contemporary western consumer societies to continue onwards in their present form.
Analyses of symbolic violence focus on the violence of language and symbols.
Bourdieu’s account of symbolic violence, for example, addresses the ability of the powerful to deny the working class a language that might allow them to understand their true value and social position.
Analyses of subjective violence focus on forms of violence committed by clearly identifiable ‘subjects’, or individuals.
In this module, we will use psychoanalytic theory to identify the fundamental forces that drive the violent individual to inflict harm upon others.
CR6021 -
Life after Crime (Optional,20 Credits)
Do children who break the law always turn into adult offenders?
What might help someone change their behaviour?
Is it always the impact of a criminal justice intervention that makes someone desist from crime?
This module will look at all of these questions.
The first part will track the nature and complexity of criminal careers.
It will demonstrate different ways in which offenders come to be engaged in crime and the extent to which starting early is a predictor of a criminal career.
After considering the different ways in which criminal careers are sustained and developed, you will look at the interventions criminal justice and aligned organisations put in place to change offenders’ behaviour.
We will investigate forms of restorative justice and reparation, and question whether, and how, they might fit within different criminal justice systems around the world.
For example, what might the role of ‘circles of support’ be in a risk adverse society?
The module will also look at whether some activities in prison might have a role in desistance after release.
For example, are creative, artistic, spiritual and sporting activities a hook for changing offending behaviour after release?
Throughout the module we will consider UK and international criminal justice practice, and question the impact of social, political and cultural contexts of restoration, rehabilitation and desistance.
You will be encouraged to explore all of these elements from cultural and critical criminological perspectives.
CR6025 -
Crime, Technology and Surveillance (Optional,20 Credits)
This course aims to enhance the students’ understanding of surveillance, esp.
the role of technology here, and their link to crime and social order.
What is the meaning of technology and of surveillance in society?
How do we conceptualise contemporary surveillance strategies?
How have technologies been developed and used for such purposes?
The students will reflect on such questions and engage with critical discussions from the fields of surveillance studies, science and technology studies, and social studies of forensic science.
Throughout this module, the students will be looking at different issues that relate to surveillance and crime control practices in an age of uncertainty; namely how contemporary surveillance strategies and technologies shape notions of identity and lead to (new/old) forms of inclusion and exclusion.
By adopting a critical position, we will explore the impacts of a range of technologies in Criminal Justice settings and in societies more widely.
For instance, with the development of emerging technologies and crime control practices in a global world, we must critically engage with the notion of global surveillance and the various forms of technological innovation (for example, the process of border control and the use of biometrics).
The module will also consider the wider significance of analysing the impacts of surveillance not only on specific criminal justice related-contexts (such as policing) but also on our everyday lives.
This will help us to better understand the social, legal and ethical issues that arise with the use of surveillance technologies in different settings.
Module content will be updated annually in order to provide up-to-date research-led teaching and learning.
CR6026 -
Social Harm (Optional,20 Credits)
Since the late 1990s, the study of legal-but-harmful social, cultural, environmental, and political-economic practices has exploded.
Some of the most significant problems facing contemporary society not only lie beyond the present scope of legal prohibition but are thoroughly normalized and integral to the functioning of liberal-capitalist political economy.
Our current period in history is one beset by a range of interconnected and overlapping crises.
Climate change; crises in housing, employment, and homelessness; resource wars; a libertarian financial elite generating widening gaps of inequality both globally and domestically; global pandemics; and a socially corrosive consumer culture generating harsh interpersonal competition, indebtedness and significant mental health issues.
These issues are, for the most part, not criminal or caused by criminal behaviour.
They are normalised social harms that are, in various ways, embedded within and caused by our current political-economic, cultural, and ecological way of life.
Consequently, social harm is one of the most potentially potent and transformative concepts currently available to the social sciences.
The first part of the module will equip students with a detailed understanding of the criminological and philosophical underpinnings of the concept of social harm, how it can be deployed, and how it is rapidly expanding the boundaries of criminology as a discipline.
The second part of the module will then focus on various specific areas of social harm, attempting to understand what is causing them, and considering on what grounds we can legitimately call these things harmful.
Harms such as climate change; housing crises; unemployment and precarious hyper-exploitative employment; food poverty; indebtedness; mass depression and anxiety; and a self-destructive and socially corrosive consumer culture.
In the third part of the module, we will consider what political, economic, and cultural changes are required to address these issues, and what tools are already available to us.
Overall, the module endeavours to equip students with a better understand of the world they live in and some of the frustrations and harms that blight our collective lives.
CR6028 -
Intimate Partner Violence (Optional,20 Credits)
The module provides a critical analysis of contemporary debates about intimate partner violence.
Its focus is primarily the UK, with some consideration of the situation in the USA and other countries.
On the module, we will draw primarily on criminological, sociological, and feminist analyses, with some consideration of other disciplines (such as psychology).
We will examine theoretical explanations of intimate partner violence in the social sciences, the policy and legal responses to it, and the social movement that has developed in response to it.
You will gain an understanding of the causes and consequences of intimate partner violence, and the policy and activist responses to it, including relevant methodological issues.
CR6039 -
Amsterdam Criminology Fieldtrip (Optional,20 Credits)
On this cutting-edge module you will explore two important cities – Newcastle and Amsterdam – to compare and contrast key criminological and sociological issues in both places.
The module offers important insights into the city in which you study (Newcastle) and, in Amsterdam, a city that features regularly in the media and academic literature – a place often portrayed as innovative, liberal, sometimes controversial and somewhere other cities could learn lessons from .
On the module you will consider several important issues such as the way in which both cities have developed and evolved; the relations between both cities; the way crime and society operates in both cities; and how crime and other social issues are governed.
A key part of the module is the Amsterdam fieldtrip where you visit Amsterdam, be taken on tours of the city, and conduct small group fieldwork on an important issue in the city (for instance, sex work, drugs, policing, the night-time economy,  and tourism), and consider whether Newcastle should emulate ‘Amsterdam-style’ policies.
CR6040 -
Comparative Genocide (Optional,20 Credits)
This module is intended to provide a thorough introduction to the crime of genocide.
It begins with a discussion of the origins of the term of genocide and its varied definitions.
Then, students explore a variety of historical genocides to identify elements of the crime as well as to compare/contrast these varied events.
Finally, the module covers legal responses to genocide as well as early warning and prevention.
SO6002 -
Social Sciences Dissertation (Optional,40 Credits)
This module will provide you will with an opportunity to independently pursue your own piece of research on a criminological or sociological topic of your choice.
With the support of a dissertation supervisor, you will seek to develop and answer a research question either by collecting your own data, using existing data sets or by engaging in an analysis of the research literature.
As a result, you will draw on and develop your research skills and on completion of the dissertation module you will be able to demonstrate the following: •	an extensive knowledge of your dissertation topic •	having successfully executed a research project •	an ability to ask and respond to a focused research question •	the capacity to develop a structured and analytical argument •	an aptitude for the use of theory and methodology •	an understanding and experience of the ethical considerations of conducting research.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/criminology-and-criminal-justice-dtfscr6:
The MA Criminology and Criminal Justice at Northumbria University is a dynamic course that offers a flexible mode of study.
You will be encouraged to develop a critical understanding of the key themes, issues and political debates concerning crime, crime control and criminal and social justice in the UK and globally.
Learn from an exciting, vibrant and dynamic team of scholars who are high quality teachers and internationally renowned experts within their subject.
All of the Criminology staff team have doctorates or extensive professional experience in the Criminology/criminal justice sector.
Equipped with excellent practical, communication, and transferable skills you will be well placed for a range of roles including drug action teams, law enforcement, research, community safety, local authority, voluntary and charitable sectors.
On graduating, you will have developed advanced written and oral communication skills and the ability to apply Criminologist concepts to a wide range of practical issues.
You will be able to demonstrate research skills which are valuable in many professions and show that you are someone who can apply independent critical thinking and judgement.
Previous students are enjoying successful careers in the criminal justice and community justice sectors, drug action teams, law enforcement agencies, voluntary and charitable sectors, crime analysis, research, local government, community safety, youth justice and the prison system.
You also have the opportunity to continue your academic studies at PhD level.
Applying for our Criminology degree, offers an exciting opportunity to delve into the complexities of crime, criminal justice, and societal issues, enabling you to develop critical insights and contribute to the field of criminal studies.
See
other similar courses you may be interested in: Law (Criminal Justice) LLM
All modules are compulsory, but assessment topics and dissertation allow you to concentrate on your own areas of interest as you develop your knowledge of theory, methods and practical topics.
Your learning combines formal input and practical exercises and discussion, allowing you to develop your ideas through interaction with academic staff and your peers.
Your dissertation is an independent and innovative piece of work, which is designed to demonstrate your skills in researching, collecting evidence, and organising that evidence.
Working independently, with the support of a tutor, you’ll find your own sources and evaluate their helpfulness to your study topic.
The academic team includes 16 criminology-specific academics with extensive research and engagement with the criminal justice system who bring their real-life experience to their teaching.
Nearly all criminology staff have received funding from leading research institutions and organisations such as Economic and Social Research Council, and they often work in partnership with state and third sector organisations such as Youth Offending Teams and homelessness charities.
They play leading roles in professional associations such as the British Society of Criminology and the Academy of the Social Sciences and serve on the editorial boards of leading disciplinary journals.
The department also has excellent international links within Europe, America and Australia where members of the staff team have been Visiting Fellows and Professors.
The academic team will help you develop the skills required to plan, manage and review your learning, and support you if you have any issues.
A central principle of this system is to help you develop a well-honed ability to work independently upon graduation.
You will be given a dedicated dissertation supervisor with relevant subject expertise and you’ll also have a guidance tutor who will provide support for your personal and academic development.
As you progress, the links between taught elements and your own independent learning will be explained at regular intervals, giving you every opportunity to achieve your full potential.
Research is embedded throughout your course at all stages.
You will be introduced to research methods to equip you with all the relevant skills you’ll need throughout your studies and beyond.
The Advanced Study Skills module introduces higher level reading, writing and research skills to help support you through the course.
Whatever your previous background this module will provide you with important skills to succeed with your studies and to boost subsequent career prospects.
You will write traditional essays and develop skills sought by employers through real-world assessments including debate logs, a critical literature review, a portfolio, a research bid and a dissertation.
The department has close links with a range of relevant agencies, including the Prison Service, law enforcement agencies and the voluntary sector, and these close networks will further enhance your learning experience throughout the course.
You will also have access to tailored career guidance in 1-to-1 and CV skills sessions with the Northumbria Careers team.
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree in a relevant social science subject.
CR7001 -
Research Methods for Global Criminology (Core,30 Credits)
This module is designed to ensure that you are equipped to undertake social science research at postgraduate level, regardless of the extent to which you have previously studied research methods.
After some consideration of the contribution of research to understanding issues in the social sciences, you will be taken through the different stages of a research project, using a range of exercises to show the practical questions that can affect each stage.
You will consider also some of the challenges that arise in seeking to undertake research into Criminological issues in an international / comparative context.
CR7002 -
Comparative Penal Policy (Core,30 Credits)
On this module you will gain a detailed and contemporary understanding of criminal justice debates relating to custody and community based punishments.
You will analyse penal policy and its relationship to wider issues associated with economic, social, cultural and political developments in an international context.
Through engaging with historical and contemporary literature and research you will develop your knowledge of penal policy, as well as the underlying philosophies of punishment.
Additionally you will develop an understanding as to why some western societies have adopted a more 'managerial' approach towards criminal justice, including the development of 'risk-based' and ‘deficits’ models of interventions, versus ‘strengths based’ approaches favoured in other jurisdictions.
The module will also consider the  ethics and role of the private sector in criminal justice systems, both prison and also community based sanctions.
CR7003 -
International Crime, Policing and Security (Core,30 Credits)
You will understand contemporary perspectives on crime, harm, policing, and security in their global context and how these are related to wider process of globalisation and economic, social, cultural, and political developments that operate at transnational levels.
You will develop foundational knowledge of governance, risk and security and how criminology operates beyond the nation state.
Critical debates about the architecture of international policing, global crime investigation and the pluralisation of international policing and security are explored.
These are related to challenges including transnational organised crime, cybercrime, state crime and strategies to countering these threats.
You will learn how cases of global crime and harm provide an alternative perspective on the globalisation thesis and underline the links between local, regional, national, and global dimensions of policing and security.
CR7004 -
Social Exclusion and Victimisation in a Global Context (Core,30 Credits)
On this module you will explore the issues of social exclusion and victimisation in the UK and internationally.
You will discover and challenge the theoretical underpinnings of these concepts and their manifestations in contemporary society.
The module will therefore begin by exploring the two concepts, their links to each other, as well as their relationship to related concepts (such as harm and vulnerability, inequality and injustice, poverty and austerity).
The module will then move on to examine case studies in depth, such as the experiences of foreign nationals in the UK, violence against women, and sex work.
Throughout the module, you will consider the ways in the concepts of social exclusion and victimisation have been framed within the policy process and public debate in the UK and beyond, and how such framings have influenced the nature of public policy.
SO7002 -
Social Sciences Postgraduate Dissertation (Core,60 Credits)
In this module you will demonstrate advanced and independent critical thinking skills about the research process and a specific, substantial topic of your choice.
In doing so you will develop robust, coherent and substantiated, advanced academic arguments in an identifiable area of enquiry.
There are a number of options for the dissertation: literature-based, empirical, or placement-based dissertations.
In formulating, research, and writing your dissertation you will be guided by your dissertation supervisor.
The dissertation is the culmination of your taught experience and will enable you to deploy the skills develop during the taught programme.
YE7001 -
Academic Language Skills for Social Sciences (Core – for International and EU students only,0 Credits)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/criminology-and-criminal-justice-dtpscz6:
The MA Criminology and Criminal Justice at Northumbria University is a dynamic course that offers you the opportunity of part-time study.
Nearly all criminology staff have received funding from leading research institutions and organisations such as Economic and Social Research Council, and they often work in partnership with agencies such as Youth Offending Teams and homelessness charities.
You will write traditional essays and develop skills sought by employers through real-world assessments including essays, debate logs, a critical literature review, a portfolio, a research bid and a dissertation.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-criminology-and-forensic-science-extended-degree-uusxmg2frs:
Our Criminology and Forensic Science degree is taught by research-active criminologists and experienced former forensic practitioners and will give you an insight into the study of crime and its investigation within the criminal justice system.
The course has two distinct themes – the criminological theme covers the theory of crime, how society is policed and the issues and alternatives to custodial sentencing.
The forensic science theme addresses the scientific theory and practical techniques that are used in crime scene examination and the laboratory to allow you to locate, examine and interpret evidential material for the courtroom.
In doing so you will be provided with significant hands-on laboratory experience in, for example, analytical chemistry, blood pattern interpretation, DNA analysis and fibre examination.
You will have the opportunity to undertake a one-year placement within an associated field after the second year of study.
This degree is designed to support and inspire you to high achievement and professionalism in your future career.
Building on fundamental knowledge and laboratory skills, you will develop into an independent graduate who can tackle complex problems with confidence, skill and maturity.
Forensic Science at Northumbria is ranked 3rd in the UK by the Complete University Guide for 2025.
Forensic
    Science at Northumbria is ranked top 20 in the UK for Forensic Science (Guardian University League Table, 2025.
Criminology and forensic science are two distinct but interconnected fields that focus on different aspects of crime and criminal justice.
Criminology is the social scientific study of crime and harm.
It is principally concerned with understanding their causes, but also how society reacts and responds to crime and harm and how these change over time.
It is a multifaceted field of study and some of the area’s students might engage with include criminal justice, criminological theory, extreme forms of violence, and mentally disordered offenders to name but a few.
Forensic science is the application of science, typically, although not limited to, biology and chemistry, in criminal investigation.
Forensic science in practice applies to crime scene investigation for collection, preservation of evidence to laboratory examination (analysis) and evaluation, interpretation and presentation of the findings in written (statements) or oral testimony (court).
UCAS Code Z049
The main appeal about studying at Northumbria University was that I had the chance to not only study at a University that had a great reputation, but also the chance to study in an excellent city with a lot to offer.
Meet Sarah, a Forensic Science BSc (Hons) student at Northumbria University, Newcastle.
Hear her experience of the course, the opportunities it has presented to her, her experience of Newcastle, and aspirations after graduation.
The early stages of the course are designed to give you a solid theoretical and practical grounding in the key science areas and criminological theory applicable to the degree.
This foundation is built on in subsequent years as you develop natural curiosity and critical thinking, ensuring greater independent learning and thought.
You will develop critical thinking skills and the ability to present clearly supported/evidence-based opinions as you progress through the course.
The problem-based approach to teaching establishes these skills at an early stage and culminates in the final year project in your chosen specialism.
Our teaching team are active researchers in their chosen specialisms who routinely incorporate their expertise and enthusiasm into their teaching.
Many of the forensic staff have worked in forensic science laboratories.
Specialisms include drugs and toxicology, forensic chemistry, detection of trace evidence, analysis of textile fibres (including transfer and persistence), pathology, data analysis and machine learning, DNA profiling and environmental analysis of chemical effluents and microbial diversity.
They are well-established within professional forensic science societies and organisations, which directly inform policy and practices within the field, and continue to maintain close links with the industry, including the police, and have been involved in cases of major crime.
Our criminology staff play leading roles within professional associations such as the British Society of Criminology and the Academy of the Social Sciences, and serve on the editorial boards of leading disciplinary journals.
Their research interests include criminal justice systems, policy mobilities, policing, mental health offenders and green crime.
All our academic research is internationally recognised and embedded into the design and delivery of every module, ensuring your learning is at the forefront of developments within the criminology and forensic science sector.
Northumbria University has invested heavily in an impressive suite of analytical equipment allowing you to gain first-hand experience of the techniques used in operational laboratories.
You will have access to a bespoke crime scene house for crime scene investigations and a former magistrates’ court to participate in mock court sessions.
Technology enabled learning is embedded throughout the course including apps and the eLearning Portal, digital reading lists, self-assessment and formal electronic assessments.
Research informs all aspects of the course, and many lecturers incorporate their own research into teaching to ensure that content is current and relevant.
The
core criminology modules are designed to develop your understanding of social
and criminological theory and research methods.
You will learn how to conduct research, critically assess the work of
others, investigate and solve problems and to translate findings into
intellectual questions and arguments.
The fundamental practices and procedures of forensic science, together
with logical thinking, attention to detail and an enquiring mind, lend well to
further research work in the field.
Confidence, developed through practical and
theoretical problem solving, is also a valuable research skill.
Academic
knowledge and intellectual curiosity are promoted throughout, driving you to
achieve at your highest level.
The FSRG is committed to the communication of forensic science to the professional community and public.
As part of that goal, we host a regular series of invited guest research seminars related to forensic science and its impact on society.
Find out what our students and staff are taking part in and achieving.
The course has a strong industry-related focus.
It includes an optional one-year work placement, STEM ambassador activities, volunteering activities within the local communities, work-based learning and/or study abroad.
We offer an innovative approach to work-based learning with an emphasis on problem-solving.
The curriculum has been specifically designed to enhance your subject knowledge and practical skills while providing opportunities for personal and professional development.
Your positive attitude, ethics and approach is developed through team working, independent learning, professional practice and volunteering opportunities.
You will graduate able to articulately and effectively communicate with a wide range of audiences through a variety of platforms.
The fundamental practices and procedures of criminology and forensic science, together with logical thinking, attention to detail and a questioning mind, establish transferable skills to a range of careers and disciplines.
Confidence, developed through intellectual curiosity, practical and theoretical problem solving, enables criminology and forensic science graduates to respectively interact in professional arenas.
Many of our recent alumni now work in roles within the police, forensic science laboratories and analytical chemistry laboratories, criminal justice and social work settings, or in varied careers in teaching, research, local and national government and third sector employment.
Others have moved on to postgraduate study.
Visit an Open Day to get insight into what it's like to study Criminology and Forensic Science.
AP0400 -
Practical Skills in Forensic Science (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will cover the basic scientific knowledge and practical skills required of a scientist.
Topics will include microscopy, required mathematical calcllations, basic laboratory skills such as use of Gilson pipettes, practices of documenting forensic examinations, scientific report writing and referencing and presentation skills.
AP0401 -
Process and Practices in Forensic Science (Core,20 Credits)
This module will provide you with an understanding of the key principles, practice and processes of forensic science.
You will gain an understanding of the role of a forensic scientist and appreciate the types of evidence that they examine as well as other key stakeholders.
You will understand the importance of the continuity and integrity of exhibits from scene to court, understand the deposition and transfer and persistence of materials and you will develop your practical skills with search and recovery techniques.
You will also develop observational and note taking skills aligned to a forensic examination.
Unseen examination and a practical assessment will assess your knowledge, understanding and skills associated with the key principles of forensic science.
AP0418 -
Fundamentals of Biology and Chemistry (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will learn the fundamental principles of biology and chemistry required to provide the necessary background level of understanding for progression onto second year of study when the basic science is applied to forensic specialisms such as toxicology, trace evidence analysis and DNA profiling.
Topics covered on this module will include: • Anatomy and physiology • Cell biology • Genetics • Fundamental chemistry principles • Chemical extraction and sample preparation techniques • Analytical techniques
AP0503 -
Body Fluids and Blood Pattern Analysis (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn the theory, practical application and laboratory skill to locate and identify a range of body fluids including blood, semen and saliva.
You will cover the identification, documentation, analysis and subsequent interpretation of these body fluids within the context of a forensic investigation.
You will gain an appreciation of the complexity of differing case types, such as murder or burglary, and understand that each requires a different forensic strategy that is bespoke to the individual case, depending on what exhibits are available for examination and what needs to be established.
Your knowledge and experience will be further developed to understand the dynamics that underpin blood pattern analysis and how they can be interpreted to provide information on the actions that have taken place and an individuals participation or otherwise.
You will review blood patterns from a crime scene right through to the consideration of clothing and weapons.
By the end of this module you will have an overall comprehension on the role of a forensic biologist and what value they bring to the forensic aspect of crime investigation.
AP0504 -
Drugs and Toxicology (Core,20 Credits)
The module is divided into themes relating to forensic toxicology and includes: •	evaluation and application of analytical toxicology and analysis of drugs of abuse to forensic science •	laboratory blood drug analysis - extraction and detection •	critical evaluation of current issues in forensic science, for example, roadside drug testing •	interpretation of results Throughout the module, the focus is orientated to existing, current and future research practices and draws on research experience from the module team i.e.
post-mortem drug redistribution, tolerance, genotoxicity, analysis and interpretation .
The module team may be expanded to include guest speakers as appropriate.
AP0551 -
DNA Profiling (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will build on your existing knowledge of biology and genetics by introducing the specific laboratory methods and DNA markers used in contemporary forensic genetics.
You will gain a thorough knowledge of the fundamental science underpinning key stages in the laboratory to facilitate effective communication of the methodology to the lay person via a written statement.
During the course of the module you will be encouraged to evaluate the range of methods and genetic markers available in the context of forensic sample types, which may be of poor quality and low quantity.
Key topics covered are listed below: • DNA extraction from a variety of sample types • DNA quantity and quality analysis • PCR based analysis of forensic DNA markers • Interpretation of forensic DNA profile data in the context of a case • Statistical assessment of the strength of DNA evidence
AP0550 -
Academic Exchange Semester Study Abroad (Optional,60 Credits)
The Study Abroad module is a semester based 60 credit module.
You will undertake a semester abroad at a partner university equivalent to 60 UK credits on a negotiated programme of study related to the award subject.
AP0601 -
Complex Casework (Core,20 Credits)
This module will provide you with the practical attributes of forensic science from the onset of a case through to the presentation of evidence in a court of law.
It expands upon core forensic science disciplines and processes taught in previous years and focuses upon the strategy setting, examination and the delivery of interpretation and evaluation of forensic evidence within the context of complex case situations.
You will study the importance of working together with key stakeholders (police, forensic pathologists, crime scene managers) in determining forensic strategy and prioritisation of key exhibits prior to commencing their practical examination.
Whilst the emphasis on this module will be practical based with you undertaking the examination of forensic exhibits, it will be underpinned through taught lectures and seminars.
By the end of this module you will have gained an understanding of the difficulties of complex casework and conveying complex scientific information to the lay person.
AP0603 -
Advanced Forensic Investigation (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn how advances in forensic interpretation can be applied to support the Criminal Justice System in decision making.
You will learn how to use the Casework Assessment and Interpretation (CAI) model in the evaluative stage of crime investigation, as well as the use of the Bayesian approach to evaluate the strength of evidence and the conclusions/limitations that can be drawn from the analytical results.
Embedded throughout the module will be case studies from violent, sexual and major crime used to supplement and underpin your learning.
AP0629 -
Interdisciplinary Criminology and Forensic Science Dissertation (Core,40 Credits)
This module will provide you with an opportunity to independently review and evaluate a research question that encompasses both the criminological and scientific disciplines.
You will independently examine the historical and contemporary theories that are currently applied to explaining crime from the perspective of the victim, offender and the environment.
You will evaluate the effectiveness of the subsequent prevention strategies and appraise how these are complemented by the scientific and innovative technological approaches to detect crime.
In doing so, you will adopt a critical and analytical approach to support innovative solutions for regulating, policing, preventing and detecting crime.
With the support of a dissertation supervisor within each discipline, you will seek to develop and answer a research question using research enquiry and tutored based techniques, for example collecting your own data, using existing data sets or by engaging in an analysis of the research literature.
You will apply your information retrieval and critical appraisal skills with discussion of your results culminating in the production of a written dissertation that appraises criminological theory and scientific practice.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/criminology-and-forensic-science-uuscmg2frs:
UCAS Code MF94
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Criminology and Forensic Science.
Applicants will need Maths, English Language and a Science at minimum grade 4/C, or an equivalent.
Please note that CR6003 (Crime and Society in Newcastle and Amsterdam) has a limited number of places and can accommodate a maximum of 50 students.
The fieldtrip to Amsterdam is an integral part of this module and does incur an additional financial cost of approximately £850 (this cost may vary).
Every student will be required to pay a £100 non-refundable deposit later in semester two of the second year, and then in semester one of the third year every student going will have to pay the remainder of the costs.
Accordingly, please take special consideration when deciding whether to select this module.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-criminology-and-sociology-extended-degree-uusxso2scg:
Are
you keen to grow your knowledge of criminological and sociological theories and
concepts?
Do you want to understand what makes these disciplines distinctive
and explore social research methods through real world research?
Our Criminology and Sociology degree will develop your intellectual
curiosity.
You will explore the relationship between crime, justice and society
on the one hand, and link individual actions to social structures on the other,
all through an examination of contemporary theories, policies and practice.
As an active and responsible member of global
society, you will use your knowledge to think independently, as well as to
challenge the opinions and conduct of others.
You will recognise the value of
your discipline in shaping society, through critical evidence-based responses
to crime and criminal justice problems.
You will have the option to apply for
a relevant work placement – for instance, in a prison or police station –
and learn from lecturers who are also leading researchers in a variety of
cutting-edge research fields in criminology and sociology.
You can take
part in modules that speak to our other thought-provoking specialisms within
criminology (e.g.
victimisation, sex work) and sociology (e.g.
happiness, race and migration), offering synergised breadth and depth across both
disciplines.
On joining this course you will become part of an exciting, dynamic and distinctive university department which has received continued praise for their high quality, research-rich teaching and learning experience.
Graduate Prospects: Sociology at Northumbria is ranked 3rd in the UK for Graduate Prospects (Times Good University Guide, 2025).
This is because over 97% of our graduates are in highly skilled employment or further study 15 months after graduation.
Research Power: Social Policy is ranked 3rd in the UK for research power in the UK out of 76 submissions (REF, 2021).
Student Rated: Over 96% of students studying Criminology and Sociology at Northumbria thought staff were good at explaining things (NSS, 2025).
To keep up to date with the latest from the department, follow us on Twitter at https://twitter.com/CriminologyNU and https://twitter.com/SociologyNU .
See other similar courses you may be interested in , such as BSc (Hons) Sociology , Criminology BSc and Criminology and Forensic Science BSc , Professional Policing BSc
You can also check out all of our other Social Sciences Courses and find that one that suits you.
UCAS Code Z006
This course is designed to be
responsive to your needs in providing a learning environment that is both
challenging and supportive.
You will study core modules aimed at developing
your understanding of social and criminological theory as well as deepening
your research skills.
This combination of modules is designed
to help you to engage with contemporary debates, drawing on lectures and
seminars which will allow you to explore how the divisions of Criminology and
Sociology undertake research through critically assessing the work of others as
well as conducting original empirical research.
Our innovative modules also enhances students’ employability skills and attributes, particularly
skills in critical thinking, knowledge of contemporary social issues and
appropriate intervention policies and presentation skills.
In second and third year of the BSc
Criminology and Sociology programme, we also offer opportunities for students
to apply their academic knowledge to criminology/criminal justice This
includes experience of working with either the police,
within a prison or within the public/voluntary sector.
There are also
opportunities for you to spend a semester or year abroad to experience the study of
criminology in an alternative cultural context
The Sociology department has also
developed a blog to keep you up-to-date with current and relevant debates in
the subject, and share the latest department news
Read all about the course and our teaching.
Sociology Blog
Northumbria offers expertise and teaching across a wide variety of topics within Criminology and Sociology.
All of our staff have either doctorates or extensive professional experience in the criminology/the criminal justice sector.
Both criminologists and sociologists on the course produce research outputs of international quality, they play leading roles within professional associations and serve on the editorial boards of leading disciplinary journals.
We are an enthusiastic, committed and knowledgeable staff team, who are here to motivate you and propel you through your degree and beyond.
Dr Nathan Stephens-Griffin
Nathan started as a Lecturer at Northumbria University in September 2018 and is now a assistant Professor in the department of Social Sciences.
Professor Pam Davies
Head of Department.
Pam's research covers areas such as gender, crime, harm, victimization and justice.
Throughout the course we make use of current technology to enhance our teaching practices and ensure that your learning experiences are interactive, dynamic and extend beyond the traditional lecture/classroom environment.
We complement our classroom learning through our online virtual learning environment, where we direct you to electronic learning sources and compose video podcasts and online quizzes to consolidate and evaluate your acquired knowledge.
We develop your technology skills to prepare you for the world of work by asking you to collaborate with your peers on tasks using web-based platforms (e.g.
PebblePad) and to design posters and webpages for assessments.
The course is focused on research-rich teaching and learning, developing your research skills as the course progresses.
As part of our teaching agenda, you will be able to learn, for example, about green criminology and environmental injustices from our ‘hub’ of green criminologists.
All core and option modules within the degree are research-led in this way, drawing directly on staff research expertise.
Our research strengths are demonstrated in our research outputs.
We publish in leading, peer reviewed journals, with our research funded by leading institutions and organisations.
A number of our criminologists and sociologists play prominent roles within professional associations and serve on the editorial boards of key disciplinary journals.
This guarantees genuine quality behind our research-informed teaching.
Our graduates stand out from their
peers.
You will be equipped with the intellectual and practical skills to be a critical
and reflective member of society, and a desirable candidate to employers.
We place a very real emphasis on
skills that are eminently transferable and that will be valuable in future
employment.
You will develop writing, communication, analytical and
problem-solving skills, quantitative and qualitative research skills, as well
as the ability to work individually and in groups, all of which will be vitally
important in your career.
You will also learn about the ways in which criminal
justice agencies operate and about the challenges faced by these agencies,
giving you an excellent grounding for jobs within related organisations.
Our graduates have a mature intellectual curiosity
which allows them to explore the relationship between crime, justice and
society on the one hand, and link individual actions to social structures on
the other.
An active and responsible member of global society, you will use
your knowledge to think independently and to challenge the opinions and conduct
of others.
You will recognise the value of your discipline in shaping society
through critical evidence-based responses to crime and criminal justice
problems.
Our graduates go on to a wide range of
careers including managerial and professional posts in the public and not-for-profit
sectors, such as local and central government, the police, the probation
service, the prisons system, community safety, health agencies, the civil
service and various research posts.
Others move into business including
management training in the retail sector, media, marketing, information
technology and advertising.
Northumbria graduates are making a very distinctive mark on the world.
Here are a selection of some of our Alumni who have been taught within this subject area.
Charlotte Butler
Hannah Jenkins
SO4003 -
Thinking Sociologically 1 (Core,20 Credits)
This module introduces some of the key figures in nineteenth century social theory and the founding figures in sociological theory.
On this module, you will explore the meaning and application of a range of social theory, and the distinctiveness of thinking sociologically.
You will examine key thinkers from sociology, and identify their contribution to understanding, and being able to address, some of the main problems and issues that frame sociology, such as those around social change, social identities, social divisions and power relationships.
Our aim is to have a practical approach to theory exploring how we can best use some of the ideas developed by early theorists to understand our own lives and the world in which we live.
By the end of the module, you will be able to demonstrate the importance of theory in the understanding and explanation of the nature of the social world, understand the origins and development of key sociological theory, and introduce some of the main classical perspectives.
SO4004 -
Thinking Sociologically 2 (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about how a range of twentieth century theorists  have influenced the way we understand the world around us.
You will learn about contemporary critiques of classical sociological theory and become confident in applying these ideas to issues such as social division, changing identity, migration, climate change and the shifting roles of the media, family, education, the body and emotions.
SO4006 -
Social Problems: Myths and Realities (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will learn to assess and evaluate competing approaches to theorising and analysing the relationship between the state, social problems, policy and citizens.
You will evaluate a range of ideologies reflected in the formulation and implementation of social policies.
You will also develop your knowledge of the role of the state in identifying, articulating and providing solutions to social problems.
An important skill which you will also develop is the critical and reflective way in which you will evaluate the effectiveness of policy.
In the first instance you will learn to examine and assess a number of historical case studies concerning the theory and practice of social policy, for example The Poor Law Amendment Act of 1834, the Beveridge Report and The Suffragettes.
In the second part of the module you will explore post war austerity, the emergence of the welfare state and the contemporary welfare experience in the UK which has been referred to as a new age of austerity.
SO5003 -
Contemporary Social Theory (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will come to understand the relevance of social theory and to evaluate a range of theories which seek to make sense of  contemporary society and human lived experience.
Key debates in sociological theory are examined as it seeks to grapple with the central features of contemporary society.
How can social theory help us to understand contemporary inequalities, identities, culture and change ?
Do we need new theories for a new age?
When addressing these questions, there is a focus upon particular contemporary social theorists, whose work is at the cutting edge of contemporary sociology, criminology and cultural studies.
We are not considering and evaluating theory for its own sake – if we can understand and analyse some of the key features, issues and problems of contemporary society and culture, we can more successfully intervene to influence social and cultural change.
SO5009 -
Sex and Gender in Society (Optional,20 Credits)
On this module we will examine the social construction and representation of gender in historical and contemporary society.
The early classes will cover scholarship about the social construction of gender, and key themes such as the significance of the private/public binary in constructing gender.
We will explore how the private/public binary has been used in the construction of gender, and how this binary impacts on lived realities of women and men, girls and boys.
Later classes will examine a number of case studies, to enable students to study the operationalization of gender in culture, political institutions, and social structures.
The case studies will explore the gendered aspects of, for example: intimacy, family and sexual relations; paid and unpaid work; formal and informal political life; representations of gender in the media.
They will help you problematize the private/public binary and study in depth the social construction and lived realities of gender in contemporary society.
SO5012 -
Growing Up: Youth and Education (Optional,20 Credits)
You will be introduced to key issues and debates in the sociology of education such as the emergence of education systems and how recent reforms have impacted on patterns of attainment.
We examine explore some traditional questions such as the role of class, race and gender in schools as well as taking a biographical approach to the analysis of learning across the life course.
We investigate the way that education can shape identities and how learning is implicated in wider patterns of social injustice.
SO5013 -
Families and Households: Value, Place and Culture (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module, you will examine the family, as a key social institution, evaluate sociological and ideological perspectives of the ‘family’ as well as develop your knowledge and understanding of changes in family structures and roles.
You will also examine the role of the state and its policies in influencing and supporting families, developing skills in finding, using, evaluating and presenting information.
You will assess and evaluate theoretical constructs, applying them to an analysis of the contemporary family, compare and evaluated aspects of international perspectives on the family and reflect upon and assess issues and debates concerning current and future family changes and public policy.
In this module, you will also develop a range of transferable skills, reading, note taking, data gathering, time management, presentation skills, group working, essay writing, effective referencing, interpreting evidence.
SO5014 -
Activism and Advocacy (Optional,20 Credits)
On this module you will explore the ways individuals and communities come together to challenge injustice and inequalities.
The module is particularly concerned with the ways ordinary people try to challenge and resist the powerful and advocate for and develop more just ways of organising society.
You will critically explore both contemporary and historical ways of understanding and theorising activism and resistance, including studying historical and more contemporary social movements, such as the Civil Rights Movement, Anti-War Movement and Guerrilla Gardening.
A variety of case study examples will be examined each year, such as analysing anti-corporate activism and boycotts, environmental activism, and diverse forms of feminist activism.
You will analyse how and why people choose to take stand and what impact it has on them, as well as exploring different strategies of protest and resistance, such as violent and non-violent protest, activism via social media, and creativity as a form of activism and resistance.
Cutting across North-South boundaries, you will engage with both UK and international examples to analyse the extent to which individuals and communities have been able to challenge the powerful, and the impacts this has had both immediately, and over time.
SO5016 -
Live Project: Sociology in Action (Optional,20 Credits)
This module is based on experiential learning, or ‘learning through doing’.
In this module, through engagement with a partner organisation which seeks to create social change in relation to social inequality, marginalisation, and exclusion, you will develop and apply a range of sociological ideas, concepts, and skills, to address real world problems and challenges facing that organisation.
In doing so you will reflect critically on the discipline of sociology and on your own skills, knowledge and abilities.
The partner organisation will be identified by the module leader and engagement with that organisation will be facilitated by the module leader.
This module enables you, as new sociologists, to apply and test your skills, knowledge, and abilities in relation to ‘real world’ contemporary problems through engagement with a Live Project and to produce outcomes for organisations which will have a real impact on the work they do.
You will apply your disciplinary practice and expertise through inquiry into and/or the resolution of real world/contemporary problems which are experienced by a third-party partner.
You will produce solutions, services, material, or new perspectives which are of benefit to the third-party partner/s which may be from the public, private or not for profit sector.
Through engagement with the module you will develop and deepen effective workplace skills and your own interpersonal and discipline skills in supporting the partner organisation to overcome challenges that they experience and which they present to you within the module.
Your engagement with this module will produce real and deliverable outcomes for partner organisations through the application of sociological skills and knowledge.
The strategies/research/solutions/outcomes developed by students will be shared with partner organisations to make effective change and meet contemporary needs within those organisations.
You will be supported and supervised by the sociology teaching team within the Department of Social Sciences.
The sociology team is comprised of staff who are accomplished academics and researchers, who also have a wide range of experience of the application of sociology in paid employment, activism and advocacy.
The teaching team has been active in  research and data analysis, funding and bidding applications, policy development in a range of public, private, charity, not for profit and campaigning settings both in the UK and overseas.
This module is a key aspect of the development of employability skills and forms part of thread of ‘learning through doing’ which is a core element of undergraduate sociology programmes within the University of Northumbria at each level of learning.
SO6004 -
Radical Ideas in Sociology (Optional,20 Credits)
This module demonstrates the distinctive character and power of Sociology as a discipline for understanding, critically analysing and intervening within the most pressing and contemporary social issues, such as ‘new terrorism’, human migration, the global financial crisis and contemporary human slavery.
You will explore theoretical and empirical sociological material, delivered by the module team, and a range of (other) eminent sociologists from the UK, lying at the cutting-edge of contemporary sociology will be discussed and critically analysed in terms of its significance for understanding, and intervening, within contemporary society and social life.
SO6007 -
Workers and 'Chavs': The British Working Class (Optional,20 Credits)
The British working class has long been of fascination to Social Scientists from Marx and Durkheim to Bourdieu and Gorz –  each in turn have focussed on the question who and what is the working class and what is their likely part in the making of human history?
This module critically and theoretically explores the origins of this class, its diversity and evolution and the efforts of that class to bring about social change.
It critically explores the changing composition, organisation and power of that class in the 20th and early 21st century.
This is a cutting edge module as it examines contemporary debates led by cultural commentators, politicians, researchers and theorists surrounding the nature and existance of class itself.
Specifically the module seeks to explore the contemporary cultural and political assault on the working class, its power and legitimacy and questions how the class has gone from a cultural portrayal as ‘salt of the earth’ to ‘scum of the earth’ (Jones, 2011).
This is achieved through an examination of the nature and impact of a neoliberal assault on the existance of the notion of social class on working class power, identity and organisation and on the working class experience of work and employment.
SO6008 -
Making Sense of Happiness and Wellbeing (Optional,20 Credits)
You will be introduced to the sociological study of happiness and wellbeing, posing questions about how we analyse notions of a good life and the efforts people make to flourish.
We draw on sociological research as well as work from psychology, economics and philosophy to explore the significance of happiness for people’s identities and life course transitions.
We discuss some of the traditional concerns of sociology such as social divisions and inequality (working through class, gender, ‘race’ and sexuality) relating these to the experience of happiness and the structuring of wellbeing.
We draw on several case studies (such as wellbeing in other cultures, aging and young people) to illustrate how happiness functions as a social process that can be a site of struggle and conflict that features in many different aspects of life through families, friendships, intimacy, work and leisure.
SO6011 -
Gender, Violence and Abuse (Optional,20 Credits)
On this module we will examine the connections between gender, violence and abuse.
These are topics that have come to the fore of public debate in recent years, especially because of the #MeToo movement and high profile cases such as Harvey Weinstein's and Jeffrey Epstein’s.
However, gender-based violence (GBV) has a much longer history; in this module we will study that history and why it is only recently that wider publics have become aware of GBV.
The early classes will cover issues around terminology, definitions, and theoretical frameworks for understanding GBV.
Later classes will cover a series of 'case studies', such as: rape and sexual violence; intimate partner violence; online abuse and image-based violence; GBV in higher education.
For each case study we will examine the nature of the problem as well as the responses and remedies to it.
This will include examination of the activism and social movements that have developed in response to GBV, as well as the state and agency responses.
Overall, this module will give you knowledge and understanding about this highly topical issue; it will also introduce you to opportunities for employment and activism in the field, should you wish to pursue your interest in the topic after graduation.
SO6012 -
Bodies in Social Worlds (Optional,20 Credits)
Sociology has, in recent years, grappled with the social nature of the body, showing that the examination of bodies belongs as much to sociology as to the biomedical and natural sciences.
On this module you will learn about how social worlds shape bodies and bodies shape social worlds.
You will critically and creatively examine the body in ways that allow you to engage with and develop rich sociological understandings about how social worlds, and the web of relations that create them, shape the ways people live in and manage human bodies.
You will look at how social worlds stratified by intersecting differences and inequalities of ‘race’, gender, class, disability, health, age, and sexuality inform how bodies come to ‘matter’ and how bodies get ranked along lines of appearance, fitness, form, and ability.
You will explore the social worlds - the relational and discursive spaces (such the media, schools and workspaces, gyms, beauty therapists, toilets, and care settings) - that shape how bodies get used, styled, scrutinised, policed, or catered to, and ask how social worlds create possibilities for different bodily performances and practices as they establish differing conventions of bodily comportment, appearance, productiveness, affect and style.
You will be supported to engage in theoretical discussions about how people ‘live’ with, in, and as bodies as sites of action, expression, and feeling at the same time as bodies are sites of medical, legal, cultural, and social regulation.
A core theme that you will address across the module, linked to discussions of inequalities, differences, and the regulation of diverse embodiments, is the intimate politics and practices associated with the social shaping of bodies, asking how bodies matter, which bodies thrive and flourish, and which bodies feel the weight of an uncaring social world.
An additional thread throughout the module will be how media images and representations of bodies, and their currency in everyday interactions, influence - but do not necessarily always determine - our understanding of them and their diversity within social worlds.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/criminology-and-sociology-uuscmg2scg:
UCAS Code LM39
Follow in Edwina's footsteps.
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Criminology and Sociology.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/criminology-uuscmg1:
UCAS Code M900

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/cyber-security-with-advanced-practice-london-campus-dtscbz6:
With the dramatic increase in high-profile cyber security incidents reported in the media, the demand for highly skilled security professionals is growing significantly as businesses across the globe seek to protect their networks and data.
Our Central London based MSc Cyber Security provides you with a critical understanding of information governance and assurance, combined with technology risk management practices.
In addition to developing the key skills for handling security incidents, you will learn how to identify new and existing threats and the methods by which to reduce them.
As part of this MSc Cyber Security, you also have the opportunity to undertake a cyber security internship and gain valuable work or research experience.
This London-based programme aims to provide you with advanced and specialist knowledge and skills in the field of cyber security.
Your MSc Cyber Security will cover topics such as
You will also develop your research and project management skills, in particular, to support your preparation for your MSc project.
In your final semester, you will complete a major individual project, where you will receive one-to-one tuition and supervision from a relevant academic supervisor.
This project will provide you with a platform to undertake a substantial piece of individual research.
To do this you will utilise appropriate advanced research, critical evaluation and synthesis techniques.
Our MSc Cyber Security has been awarded certification in Cyber Security from the NCSC (National Cyber Security Centre) .
This places us in an elite group of postgraduate providers which have achieved this standard and among the best cyber security degrees in London.
This programme is also available part-time or as MSc Cyber Security with Advanced Practice which includes either an internship, consultancy project or research project.
Ultimately, as a graduate of MSc Cyber Security you will be able to:
Throughout the course, you will be able to trial new approaches and processes in a safe environment, working on real-life scenarios and case studies.
For those with high career aspirations, this programme can give you an extra edge in today’s competitive job market.
Job roles, including roles in leadership and management, could include working in, for example, software engineering, network design and management, network security, artificial intelligence or IT consultancy.
This programme will prepare you to meet the educational requirements of the BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT for the purposes of fully meeting the further learning academic requirement for registration as a Chartered IT Professional.
The Advanced Practice version of this course offers you a valuable opportunity to secure a work placement or research placement, giving you the experience of the workplace environment or live Cyber Security issues, and an excellent way to put your learning into practice.
This stage of the programme will take place between your second and final semester, and is a semester-long (12-15 weeks approx.) in duration.
The alternative research placement allows you to work on a research project to carry out active research.
Whether you choose the internship or research project, you will successfully develop your cyber skills and further enhance your employability.
This additional training is offered to our graduates for free, from our partner, QA and provides you with an excellent opportunity to undertake professional training at the end of your Masters from one of the UK’s leading corporate training providers, further enhancing your professional development and employability skills.
Find out more about Professional Pathways and your eligibility .
From your Programme Leader, Hamid Jahankhani :
Cyber Security reading:
Applicants with non-standard prior learning and or relevant work experience and training are encouraged to apply.
A CV (curriculum vitae) made up of prior work experience and training would need to be submitted for consideration by our faculty alongside the standard application.
You will have the expertise to advise on the design and implementation of an appropriate strategy for managing an organisation’s information (ensuring all assets meet legal, regulatory, organisational and/or societal needs for information governance and security.
The main objective of this module is to provide you with in-depth coverage of the fundamental concepts, principles and technologies for network security.
This module will provide you with a theoretical and practical understanding of two important aspects related to security namely, data security and network security.
The module will cover a number of topics including cryptography, classical systems, IP protocol security, private and public-key cryptography, cryptographic protocols, hash functions, authentication, signature schemes, email and web security, viruses, and firewalls.
The concepts introduced in lectures are reinforced with the help of extensive hands-on laboratory workshops.
You will also have the opportunity to develop practical networking skills by using Cisco IOS, the configuration of firewalls, switches and routers.
You will also explore the wider impact of security via a consideration of related legal, ethical and social issues.
This module is designed to be suitable for a variety of networking professional roles including those wishing to gain a deeper understanding of 802.11 protocols, security and enterprise deployment.
Additionally, it is suitable for wireless network administrators and support or design staff requiring a greater understanding of the new technologies and applications of modern converged networks and delegates seeking Certified Wireless Network Associate (or similar) certification.
You will study the following areas:
This module will provide you with an in-depth knowledge of the processes used in assuring the security of information during use, sharing, storage, transmission and disposal.
It will cover the protection of the integrity, authenticity, availability and confidentiality of all classes of information.
The module is designed to provide a comprehensive framework for ensuring the resilience of business activities during threats and disruptive events thus enabling the assessment of potential risks to the business which could result from disasters or emergency situations.
You will develop an in-depth understanding of the different types of business interruptions – man-made, natural disasters and technology failures – and the potential damage/revenue losses that can result from them.
It is crucial to perform regular disaster recovery testing exercises in order to prove that organisations can recover from a catastrophic loss of data and facilities.
This module will enable you to develop a deep understanding of both theoretical and practical aspects of Ethical Hacking.
An essential part of a modern organisation’s e-security.
The module includes testing and analysis to determine vulnerabilities.
Carrying out such work requires a special skill set, which crosses, legal issues, psychology, computer networks along with detailed understanding of system vulnerabilities and exploits.
Additionally, you will be exposed to a collection of industry-standard hacking tools and will learn how to apply these in an ethical manner to determine system vulnerabilities.
In this module you will learn about research and the processes involved in carrying out research and project management, and you will apply them to develop a master’s project proposal.
This will include research approaches and methods of research, including literature searching, evaluation and review and project management tools and techniques.
You will also consider relevant legal, ethical and social issues and good professional practice.
By the end of this module you will have constructed a project proposal which can be executed in a master’s project.
This will contain a brief literature review justifying a research question, establish aims and objectives, and provide a plan of execution, using tools and techniques in project management, including an outline of deliverables (both artefacts and products).
The aim of this module is to enable you to undertake a substantial academic research project at Masters Level and present the results from this work in both written and oral forms.
Your project itself will be a major piece of independent and original research centred at the forefront of your programme discipline within the wider sphere of the computer science and digital technologies field.
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study 1 year MSc Cyber Security .
The main objective of this module is to provide you with an in-depth coverage of the fundamental concepts, principles and technologies for network security.
You will also have the opportunity to develop practical networking skills by using Cisco IOS, a configuration of firewalls, switches and routers.
Carrying out such work requires a special skill set, which crosses, legal issues, psychology, computer networks along with a detailed understanding of system vulnerabilities and exploits.
In this module, you will learn about research and the processes involved in carrying out research and project management, and you will apply them to develop a master’s project proposal.
By the end of this module you will have constructed a project proposal that can be executed in a master’s project.
Advanced Practice (60 credits) Internship/Work Placement Option: During the work placement/internship, the student will have a workplace mentor, normally a member of the employer’s senior staff and a visiting tutor from the Faculty.
When a work placement has been secured the students must complete a ‘work placement confirmation’ form.
This form identifies the employer and job title and will assist allow the faculty to confirm that the work placement is academically acceptable.
The student will then be asked to complete and confidential personal risk assessment form which covers health issues and any travel risks inherent in the work role.
The employer completes a learning agreement that identifies and work-related health and safety risks and confirms Employer and Public Liability insurance.
Prior to taking up the work placement students will complete a self-assessment questionnaire to establish personal competencies.
Then, working with the employer and visiting tutor identify learning and development experiences available in the workplace.
This will take the form of a personal learning contract .
At the end of the placement, the student will repeat the competence assessment to provide a framework for the reflective account of the placement which forms the assessment of the module.
Study Log: During your placement, it is advisable to maintain a Study Log that details work experience and learning achieved.
This gives you a framework for discussion with your supervisor.
Research Placement The University has a number of Research Institutes and interest groups carrying out active research at the cutting edge of your Masters study.
If you wish to participate in one of the research groups associated with your programme of study you will need to contact the module tutor who will introduce you to appropriate research professors.
Following a successful interview, you will be assigned a role in an ongoing research project.
The Faculty will take responsibility for health and safety issues around your placement.
The student, research team and module tutor will identify learning outcomes available within the research group and establish a personal learning contract with the student.
At the end of the placement, the student will provide evidence of the learning achieved as part of the reflective account of the placement.
Internship/Work Placement Option:
During the work placement/internship, the student will have a workplace mentor, normally a member of the employer’s senior staff and a visiting tutor from the Faculty.
Research Placement
The University has a number of Research Institutes and interest groups carrying out active research at the cutting edge of your Masters study.
Contact time in class – typically in lectures, seminars and tutorials Access to facilities, including computers, on-campus Wi-Fi, printers, vending machines, quiet study spaces The support of our Careers & Employment Service who can help you to become more employable, secure placements and run workshops Academic support – our ACE Team run multiple sessions on academic writing, presenting, exam techniques throughout the semester, as well as 1-2-1 appointments and drop-in sessions Student support services such as our Ask4Help Service.
*As defined by UKVI Scholarships and bursaries Payment plans for self-funded students If you need to spread the cost of your tuition, you may be eligible for our payment plan.
Payment plans Government Loan for Masters study If you are the UK or a Home student, you may be eligible for a postgraduate loan of up to £10,000+ from the UK Government.
If you are the UK or a Home student, you may be eligible for a postgraduate loan of up to £10,000+ from the UK Government.
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study MSc Cyber Security with Advanced Practice .
Minimum 2:2 honours degree, or equivalent, from a recognised university in a related subject
Minimum 2:2 honours degree, or equivalent in a related subject

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/cyber-security-msc-part-time-london-dtpcsx6:
Fee UK/Home Fee: £11,000 (25/26)
Duration 2 years (equivalent to 14/15.5 weekends)
Study mode Part-time classroom and virtual sessions
2 years (equivalent to 14/15.5 weekends) Part-time classroom and virtual sessions
Cyber security continues to be a major issue for both individuals and large corporations.
The Cyber Security Breaches Survey 2024 reported that over 70% of medium to large businesses experienced a cyber security breach or attack in the last 12 months.
For businesses, it is no longer a question of if a cyber-attack will occur but rather when, and the demand for qualified IT security professionals has risen exponentially.
Our part-time cyber security masters degree, taught at our Central London campus, is designed to give you the skills to meet this increased demand.
You’ll learn how to handle security incidents, identify new and existing threats, and determine methods to minimise them.
Our MSc Cyber Security (part-time) will teach you how to handle security incidents, identify new and existing threats and determine methods to minimise them.
We will also provide in-depth coverage of the fundamental concepts, principles and technologies for network security.
Going beyond just theoretical theory, you will be given a practical understanding of governance and assurance, along with technology risk practices.
Our MSc Cyber Security (part-time) has been awarded certification in Cyber Security from the NCSC (National Cyber Security Centre) .
This places us in an elite group of cyber security postgraduate degree providers in London which have achieved this standard.
This part-time cyber security degree is designed to fit around your working life and is assessed through modular assignments, and a final dissertation.
Cyber security has become an increasingly recurring issue for businesses, governments and the public, leading to significant investment in cyber security professionals and systems.
With all this investment, there are a plethora of career options within the IT security industry this course can lead to.
Typical roles include:
Part-Time study:
If you do not have the required technical expertise from either previous study, professional qualifications or work experience, you may find the MSc Cyber Security Technology more suitable.
Please note: we are not currently able to sponsor international students to study this programme.
If you require sponsorship to study as an international student, this course will unfortunately be unavailable to you.
For an alternative option, have a look at our full-time MSc Cyber Security programme.
You will have the expertise to advise on the design and implementation of an appropriate strategy for managing an organisation’s information (ensuring all assets meet legal, regulatory, organisational and/or societal needs for information governance and
This module will provide you with a theoretical and practical understanding on two important aspects related to IT security namely, data security and network security.
You will study enterprise wireless deployment elements and methodologies.
Basic RF characteristics for mobile systems.
802.11 protocol operation and technologies wireless security issues and attack vulnerabilities.
This module will provide you with in-depth knowledge of the processes used in assuring the security of information during use, sharing, storage, transmission and disposal.
An essential part of a modern organisation’s e-security includes rigorous testing and analysis to determine vulnerabilities.
Carrying out such work requires a special skill set, which crosses legal issues; psychology; and computer networks, along with a detailed understanding of system vulnerabilities and exploits.
Throughout the world of science, engineering, technology, and business, the ability to pursue research is seen as a requisite for continued career progression in the appropriate subject discipline.
This module introduces students to the nature of research and the processes involved in carrying out research.
General research approaches and methods for research will be introduced including literature searching, evaluation and reviewing.
This general introduction will be followed by the inclusion of topics specifically designed to meet the requirements of your programme of study.
Payment plans To help spread the cost of your tuition, we offer our self-funded part-time Master’s students an instalment plan.
Once you have paid your deposit, your remaining tuition fee balance will then be split across 6 instalments over the duration of your programme.
For any ad hoc payment plan requests, students are advised to contact us directly via the student portal.
Please note that self-funded students are required to pay a deposit of £2,450.
Government Loan for Masters study If you are a UK/Home student, you may be eligible for a postgraduate loan of up to £10,000+ from the UK Government.
Payment plans and PGL
To help spread the cost of your tuition, we offer our self-funded part-time Master’s students an instalment plan.
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study the part-time MSc Cyber Security programme.
UK/Home Fee: £11,000 (25/26)
2:2 honours degree, or equivalent, from a recognised university in a related subject or professional qualifications that are equivalent to an honours degree
Part-time classroom and virtual sessions
2 years (equivalent to 14/15.5 weekends)
January, October

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/master-of-science-cyber-security-distance-learning-dtdcsx6:
Home Courses MSc Cyber Security
Distance learning Masters | 2 years | Part-time | Multiple intakes
Apply Today
Apply for October 2025 and save £1,000 on your tuition fees!
Cyber security is one of the biggest concerns for organisations around the world, which will grow as the capabilities of cyber criminals, and the AI tools they use, continue to advance.
We’ve developed our part-time, NCSC accredited MSc Cyber Security (Online) programme to empower working professionals with experience or qualifications in a related field to elevate their expertise and advance their careers.
You will be taught by cyber industry experts who will help you to:
There will also be an optional on-campus session for each module for students who are able to attend.
Certified by the NCSC
Northumbria University’s Cyber Security Masters degree is fully certified by the UK Government’s National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) , a part of GCHQ.
Industry-specific skills
Our courses are developed with expert and professional body input, ensuring you learn up-to-date and career-focused cyber security knowledge and skills.
Career opportunities
Cyber security affects businesses and organisations of every size and having an industry-certified MSc Cyber Security could open the door to various roles in practically any industry.
Study online with support
Study this part-time degree online to fit your studies around your commitments.
You can access support and guidance from your course tutor whenever you need.
WHY STUDY WITH US
All modules on this distance learning programme are core modules and worth 20 credits, unless stated otherwise.
During this module you will critically explore the governance and cyber security principles that underpin the management of an organisation’s information assets, developing a practical foundation on which to evaluate different approaches to information governance and cyber security.
Through critical analysis of the key concepts, theories, standards, and frameworks on information governance and security, including risk management, this module will provide you with a comprehensive knowledge and understanding of information management and security.
Data security and network security are two important aspects of cyber security and this module will provide you with a theoretical and practical understanding of both.
Multiple topics will be covered in this module including:
These concepts will be reinforced with the help of  hands-on laboratory workshops through our Learn on Demand tool – used for online delivery and teaching of technical modules.
You will also consider the wider impact of information security through the consideration of related legal, ethical, and social issues, as well as develop practical networking skills by using Cisco IOS , a configuration of firewalls, switches, and routers.
This module will provide you with a deeper understanding of 802.11 protocols , security, and enterprise deployment, suitable for a variety of networking professional roles.
Part of this module will be taught using Learn on Demand – a tool used for the online delivery and teaching of technical aspects of this course.
This module will provide you with a comprehensive knowledge of the processes to ensure the security of information during use, sharing, storage, transmission, and disposal.
You will learn about the protection of integrity, availability, authenticity, and confidentiality of all classes of information.
By the end of this module, you will have a comprehensive framework for ensuring business activities remain resilient during threats and disruptive events, enabling you to assess the potential risks that could result from disasters or emergency situations.
You will also develop a thorough understanding of the different types of business disruption, such as man-made; natural; and technology failures, and the potential damage or revenue losses that can result from them.
Ethical hacking is an essential part of modern e-security.
It includes rigorous testing and analysis to determine an organisation’s vulnerabilities.
This module is designed to provide you with a deep understanding of the theoretical and practical aspects of ethical hacking.
Carrying out the work of an ethical hacker requires a specific set of skills that encompass legal issues, psychology, and computer networks, along with a detailed understanding of information system vulnerabilities and how to exploit them.
Throughout this module you will be exposed to industry-standard hacking tools and how to apply them in an ethical manner to determine system vulnerabilities.
This module will teach you about the nature of research and the processes involved in carrying out that research, along with a variety of project management skills, enabling you to apply this knowledge to develop your Masters project proposal.
Throughout this module, you will learn about the different approaches to research and research methods, including literature searching; evaluation; and review, along with project management tools and techniques.
Alongside the practical elements of research and project management, you will also consider the relevant legal, ethical, and social issues, and good professional practice.
By the end of the module, you will have constructed your project proposal and this will include:
This module will comprise a substantial academic research project at Masters level, and you will present your results in both written and oral form.
Your project will consist of entirely independent and original research focused on the forefront of your cyber security programme discipline and within the wider sphere of the computer science and digital technologies field.
The course information displayed on this page is correct for the academic year 2024/25.
We aim to run the course as advertised, however, changes may be necessary due to updates to the curriculum (due to academic or industry developments), student demand, or UK compliance reasons.
Teaching
The Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) Blackboard will be used for this programme and the tool Learn of Demand (LoD) will be used for technical modules: Network Security, Wireless Networks and Security and Ethical Hacking for Cyber Security.
On this programme, modules will be split into weeks and further broken into smaller, manageable units.
Your tutor will make weekly announcements to indicate which tasks need completing.
Entry requirements
Academic requirements
Non-standard entry requirements
If you do not have the required technical expertise from either previous study, professional qualifications, or work experience, you may find our MSc Cyber Security Technology (Online) more suitable.
If you do not have the required technical expertise from either previous study, professional qualifications, or work experience, you may find our MSc Cyber Security Technology (Online) degree more suitable.
Fees and funding
Save £1,000 on tuition fees for the October 2025 intake.
For self-funded students, we have an interest-free payment plan to help spread the cost of your tuition fees following your initial deposit payment.
Find out more about payment plans, student loans and other discounts on our Finance page .
Access to a laptop/PC and a reliable internet connection is required for this online distance learning course.
Alongside the cost of running this online programme, your tuition fees also cover the cost of providing a range of student services including:
Teaching staff
Our teaching staff here at Northumbria University London are experts in their field, with a wealth of industry experience to help you get the most out of your studies.
Meet our Deputy Dean, Dr Rose Fong, below.
What career opportunities do I have after completing MY STUDIES?
After completing your degree, you will be prepared to meet the educational requirements of the BCS (The Chartered Institute for IT) for the purposes of meeting the further learning requirement for registration as a Chartered IT Professional.
Typical careers and roles for cyber security Masters graduates include (but are not limited to):
We offer multiple intakes, enabling you to apply to study when you’re ready.
Our online application portal allows you to upload your supporting documents at the time of application and your student application number, which you will need throughout the application process, will be automatically generated and issued to you.
Please note that we are not currently able to sponsor International students to study online programmes at Northumbria University London.
For more information about our full-time on-campus programmes please visit the course pages on our Northumbria University London site.
If you have any questions about studying with us, take a look at our frequently asked questions to find out more.
We strongly recommend that you submit your application as early as possible to allow enough time to complete all the preparations needed to study your programme.
Please refer to the Finance page for more information.
View more information about the application process and how to apply , including guidelines for the application forms.
Information for applicants with disabilities
At Northumbria University London, we are committed to ensuring an equal and accessible application journey for all of our students.
Your application will be considered on an equal basis to all other applications, and if you require any assistance please contact us .
ENQUIRE NOW
QA Higher Education will process your personal data as set out in our privacy notice .
Dr Rose Fong
Dr Fong is our Programme Leader for Bachelor of Science (Hons) in Applied Computing (Top-Up) and teaching across QA Higher Education IT programmes for Northumbria and Ulster Universities.
Her credentials include: BSc (Hons) N.
London (UK); MBA Surrey (UK); and MEd PolyU; EdD Durham (UK).
Prior to her current role, Rose was a Senior Lecturer in Computing in Hong Kong with over 25 years’ experience teaching IT subjects at sub-degree and Bachelor levels.
She held leadership positions in programmes across media production, business analytics, information systems, and network administration, and served as Director of Student Services, overseeing college-level scholarships.
A certified Personality Dimensions® Level 1 facilitator, she managed the Personal and Career Development Centre at City University (2012–2014), delivering over 150 career and personal development sessions.
Rose’s research interests include user-centred design, information systems, and educational technologies.
She is a full member of the Hong Kong Computer Society and actively promotes learning technologies by organising conferences and reviewing related journals

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-cyber-technology-london-part-time-dtpcyt6:
This Central London based MSc Cyber Security Technology (Part-Time) will provide you with a recognised postgraduate qualification in Cyber Security.
The programme is designed to enhance and accelerate your cyber security career opportunities by updating, extending and deepening your knowledge in Cyber Security and related technology and wider digital leadership and technology subjects.
The programme has been designed for those who have an undergraduate degree in any discipline who wish to study for a qualification which focuses on cyber security.
The MSc in Cyber Security Technology is ideally suited to those who have no prior learning in cyber security, the modular content is reflective of this strategy.
The MSc Cyber Security Technology programme is designed specifically to enable you to update, extend and deepen your knowledge in cyber security technology and wider digital leadership and technology subjects, in order to enhance and accelerate your career opportunities.
By completing the MSc in Cyber Security Technology you will be able to demonstrate capabilities in the areas of Digital Leadership, Information Governance and Cyber Security, Cloud and Big Data Security, Introduction to Computer Networks Security, Computer Networks and Security, Research Methods for Professional Practice and Computing and Digital Technologies Project.
As you progress through the programme, you develop as an up to date, well rounded and outward-looking professional capable of taking responsibility for and effectively leading cyber security and technology projects and people, capable of making good decisions and improving the performance of yourself, your people, your areas of responsibility and your organisation.
This London-based programme recognises that as an aspiring cyber security technology professional you are required to develop competencies in a range of specific cyber techniques alongside softer skills in areas such as leadership, communication, problem solving and commercial reasoning.
The qualification is designed to accelerate your skills and competence in a range of job roles, including roles in
In addition, the specialist modules provide opportunities to develop your career in roles such as Big Data Security Analyst and Big Data Developer and also for a career in the networking field such as Network Analyst, Network Solution Architect, Network Engineer, Network Specialist and Network Manager.
Meet your Programme Leader, Usman Butt .
Computing and Technology reading:
For an alternative option, have a look at our full-time MSc Cyber Security Technology programme.
In doing so you will critically analyse the key concepts, theories, standards and frameworks of information governance and security, including risk management.
This will enable you to evaluate an organisation’s or the one in which you work, their current approach to information governance and cyber security and to advise on the design and implementation of an appropriate strategy for managing an organisation’s information assets to meet legal, regulatory, organisational and/or societal needs for information governance and cyber security.
These capabilities are essential for your career development as they enable you to become competent at the visioning, development and deployment of technological strategies and responses to challenges and opportunities in complex organisational environments.
This module will provide you with an in-depth knowledge of cloud and big data security.
This module is a specialist module and as such will develop your skills in a variety of aspects of cloud security, these capabilities are becoming increasingly desirable by employers as more organisations use the cloud for storing sensitive data.
The module aims to introduce you to the role and internal operation of computer networks.
You will learn relevant concepts and technologies at a layer’s level, and the demands placed upon computer networks and security requirements required to successfully support current and emerging applications
This module provides you with a critical appreciation of computer networks and security.
You will learn about the underpinning networking concepts and security considerations to design and implement a secure network using appropriate technologies.
This module builds on ‘Introduction to Computer Networks and Security’ and aims to provide you with a deeper understanding of critical computer security techniques and in-depth knowledge of countermeasures.
You will learn relevant cutting-edge computer security principles, models and terminologies required to secure modern computers.
This module provides you with a critical appreciation of computer security.
You will learn computer security concepts, technologies, countermeasures, issues and industry standards.
You will complete three strands.
Semester 1 to 3: Academic and Employability Skills
Semester 4-6: Research Methods
Semester 7 and 8
Scholarships For more information on scholarship opportunities, please contact us today.
For more information on scholarship opportunities, please contact us today.
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply to study the part-time MSc Cyber Security Technology.
You can check more information on how to apply here.
Minimum 2:2 (second class) honours or equivalent from a recognised university in any subject (except Cyber Security)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/master-of-science-cyber-security-technology-with-advanced-practice-london-dtscyy6:
This MSc Cyber Security Technology programme has been designed for those with an undergraduate degree in any discipline.
If you wish to study for a qualification that focuses on helping you develop a cyber security career, then our MSc in Cyber Security Technology is the best cyber security degree for you.
This Central London Masters programme has been designed in consultation with partners from the industry to ensure you learn up-to-date cyber security knowledge required by employers across the industry.
Upon graduation, you will be equipped to work in a variety of careers in the cyber security sector and IT industry or progress to academic or research-orientated careers.
By completing the MSc in Cyber Security Technology you will be able to demonstrate capabilities in the areas of Digital Leadership, Information Governance and Cyber Security, Cloud and Big Data Security, Introduction to Computer Networks Security, Computer Network Security, and Research Methods for Professional Practice.
You will also demonstrate these capabilities in a Computing and Digital Technologies Project.
Alternatively, you can study the MSc Cyber Security Technology Part-Time .
The modular content has been designed to allow you to develop both a theoretical and applied knowledge of core specialisms essential for a cyber security expert.
For example, the digital leadership module is designed to support future career progression into roles where there is a requirement to manage other cyber specialists.
It also provides a useful foundation for those seeking to pursue a career in cyber security in a role where you are required to perform security vulnerability assessments and penetration testing for networked information systems.
Knowledge gained from studying the programme will enable you to conduct threat intelligence analysis to keep up to date with the changing threat landscape.
As you progress through the programme you will develop as an up to date, well rounded and outward-looking professional capable of taking responsibility for and effectively leading cyber security and technology projects and people.
You will also become capable of making good decisions and improving the performance of yourself, your people, your areas of responsibility and your organisation.
This master’s programme has been designed to ensure that graduates from the programme will be equipped to work in a variety of careers in the cyber security/IT industry or to progress to academic or research-orientated careers.
The qualification is designed to accelerate your skills and competence in a range of job roles, including:
The purpose of this module is to provide you with an in-depth understanding of cloud and big data security.
You will learn relevant concepts and technologies at a layer’s level, and the demands placed upon computer networks and security requirements required to successfully support current and emerging applications.
The module builds on ‘Introduction to Computer Networks Security’ and aims to provide you with a deeper understanding of critical computer security techniques and in-depth knowledge of countermeasures.
You will learn relevant cutting-edge computer security principles, models and terminologies require to secure modern computers.
Scholarships and bursaries for international students Depending on the country you are from, you may be eligible for a country bursary and/or scholarship when studying the MSc Cyber Security Technology programme.
Depending on the country you are from, you may be eligible for a country bursary and/or scholarship when studying the MSc Cyber Security Technology programme.
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study the 1 year MSc Cyber Security Technology .
Scholarships and bursaries for international students Depending on the country you are from, you may be eligible for a country bursary and/or scholarship when studying the MSc Cyber Security Technology with Advanced Practice programme.
Depending on the country you are from, you may be eligible for a country bursary and/or scholarship when studying the MSc Cyber Security Technology with Advanced Practice programme.
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study the MSc Cyber Security Technology with Advanced Practice.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-cyber-security-technology-distance-learning-dtdcyt6:
Home Courses MSc Cyber Security Technology
With cyber crime on the rise, Northumbria University London is passionate about improving access to cyber security careers, increasing the number of qualified professionals in the industry.
We’ve designed this online cyber security degree for anyone who wants to start a career in cyber security without prior experience or qualifications .
Recognised by the NCSC
Northumbria University is recognised as a Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security Research (ACEs-CSR) by the UK Government’s National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) , a part of GCHQ.
Our online cyber security degrees are developed with expert and professional body input.
You’ll learn up-to-date and career-focused knowledge and skills, giving you the best possible chance at success.
Cyber security affects businesses and organisations of every size and an online cyber security degree could open the door to a variety of roles in practically any industry.
Study this part-time degree online and fit your studies around your commitments.
You will be able to access help and guidance from your course tutors when you need it.
All modules on this online cyber security degree are core modules and worth 20 credits, unless stated otherwise.
This module will develop your knowledge of information governance and cyber security principles that underpin the management of an organisation’s information assets.
You will critically analyse the key concepts , theories , standards , and frameworks of information governance and security, including risk management.
This will develop a practical foundation for a range of organisational approaches to information governance and cyber security.
You will then be able to evaluate an organisation’s approach to information governance, and advise on the design and implementation of an appropriate strategy for managing an organisation’s information assets to meet legal, regulatory, organisational, and/or societal needs for information governance and cyber security.
Indicative topics include:
You will be assessed by the development of an information governance and cyber security policy for an organisation.
Alongside this, you will produce a report justifying the policy and recommending an implementation strategy.
This module will develop your knowledge, skills, and capabilities in leadership within a digital context.
As such, you’ll be able to competently envision, develop, and deploy technological strategies and responses to challenges and opportunities in complex operational environments.
Multiple topics will be covered throughout this module including:
You will be assessed through the creation of a narrative report , which sets out an original technical managerial challenge and the process, decisions, and steps taken to develop the solution.
This is one of our specialist modules designed to provide you with an in-depth understanding of cloud and Big Data security.
You’ll develop skills in a variety of aspects of cloud security, which are becoming increasingly sought after by employers as more organisations use cloud storage for sensitive data.
During this module you will gain an understanding of key concepts, including:
You will be assessed through the analysis, design, and implementation of security controls necessary to ensure confidentiality, integrity, and availability in a cloud and Big Data environment.
In addition, you will produce a report demonstrating critical appraisal of the effectiveness of the security controls implemented in the cloud and Big Data environment.
This module will introduce you to the role and internal operation of computer networks, including relevant concepts and technologies at a layer’s level, demands placed upon computer networks, and the security requirements required to support current and emerging applications.
You’ll learn about the underpinning networking concepts and security considerations required to design and implement a secure network using appropriate technologies, and gain a critical appreciation of computer networks and security.
You will also study:
Assessment for this module will consist of a report presenting critical analysis and evaluation of the choices made during the design and implementation of a secure network, including ethical and social considerations.
This module builds on ‘Introductions to Computer Networks Security’ , providing a deeper understanding of critical computer security techniques and in-depth knowledge of countermeasures.
You will learn about the relevant cutting-edge computer security principles, terminology, models, technologies, and industry standards required to secure modern computers.
During this module you will learn about:
Assessment for this module will consist of submitting a report presenting critical analysis and evaluation of the optimal choices made to secure modern computers in a given scenario/organisational environment, including ethical/social considerations.
It will enable you to become a more agile and adaptive professional , ready to make meaningful contributions to business and society.
You will rapidly develop new knowledge and skills that you can apply to your business and technical challenges.
We’ll run a range of activities that will deepen your technical understanding, improve your skills, and cultivate innovative thinking to tackle real-world problems effectively.
This commences with virtual team work training designed to develop your leadership and team working skills, such as hackathons, virtual bootcamps, competitions, and conferences .
You will then undertake a project in which you will tackle a problem defined by a real business and use an applied research approach to solve it, demonstrating team working skills and leadership competences.
This module will be delivered across the entire programme and is designed to build your confidence and capabilities as a postgraduate student and researcher, and graduate with the skills needed to progress into high-skilled employment or doctoral study.
Terms 1-3: Academic and Employability Skills
During the first three terms, you will develop your academic confidence, reading, writing, and study effectiveness .
You will also build on your ability to analyse and use source material; take your language and communication skills to a higher level; and enhance your employability skills such as:
You will also have the opportunity to attend careers and employability workshops organised by our Careers Team.
Terms 4-6: Research Methods
During terms four to six, you will further develop your knowledge and understanding of research methods , which will enable you to :
Terms 7 and 8: Dissertation
Your dissertation is the culmination of your Masters degree .
You will work alongside an academic tutor to complete a major research project.
This will include attending individual and group project supervision and guidance sessions, which will further develop the skills required to complete a computing-related research enquiry.
You will learn how to identify a problem and how to design and implement an appropriate research methodology to answer your research questions and fulfil your research objectives.
The Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) Blackboard will be used throughout this online cyber security degree.
M odules will be split into weeks and further broken into smaller, manageable units.
There are also optional on-campus sessions for each module if you wish to attend.
If you have prior experience and/or qualifications directly relating to cyber security
If you have demonstrable technical expertise from either previous study, professional qualifications, or work experience, you may find our MSc Cyber Security (Online) programme more suitable.
Save £1,000 on tuition fees for our October 2025 intake .
Additional costs
Access to a laptop/PC and a reliable internet connection is required for this online cyber security degree.
Alongside running this online cyber security degree, your tuition fees also cover the cost of a range of excellent student services and experiences, including:
Meet one of our MSc Cyber Security Technology professors, Dr.
Saber Farag, below.
What career opportunities do I have after completing this Masters?
Cyber security is vital in most industries and, as such, the roles you could apply for aren’t limited to the cyber security sector alone.
We’ve designed this online cyber security degree in consultation with industry partners to ensure that the cyber security knowledge and skills you gain are up-to-date and career-focused to give you the best possible chance at success in your career.
Typical careers and roles for Cyber Security Technology graduates include (but are not limited to):
We have also developed specific modules on the programme that lend themselves to specialist cyber security roles such as:
We offer multiple intakes, enabling you to apply to study this online cyber security degree when you’re ready.
Your application will be considered on an equal basis to all other applications and if you require any assistance please contact us .
Saber Farag
Saber Farag is a distinguished academic, practitioner, and researcher in the field of Computing and Engineering, with over 10 years of experience in higher education.
He currently serves as the Program Leader for the MSc Computing Frameworks (PT) at Northumbria University’s London campus, a position he has held since mid-2023.
In addition to his teaching duties, Dr.
Saber leads a consultancy group that delivers real-life projects coordinated by Northumbria University, providing students with valuable industry experience while solving complex problems for external partners.
He is also a module leader of key modules, including Programming for AI, Internet of Things (IoT), and Artificial Intelligence for IoT, ensuring a high standard of academic rigour and industry relevance.
Saber’s contributions to the field extend beyond the classroom, with a strong portfolio of publications in reputable conferences and journals.
He actively engages in the academic community as an external reviewer for international conferences, further contributing to the advancement of knowledge in his discipline.
With a passion for continuous learning and innovation, Dr.
Saber is dedicated to leveraging his expertise to drive impactful initiatives and inspire the next generation of professionals in Computer Science and Engineering.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/data-protection-law-and-information-governance-dtpdpg6:
The Postgraduate Certificate in Data Protection Law and Information Governance is a distance learning course that has been specifically designed to meet the needs of professionals already working in data protection and/or information governance.
You will study three modules.
The first of these, the legal research module, will develop your ability to undertake legal research and to present your research findings appropriately.
In the second module you will develop your understanding of information governance and security principles that underpin the management of an organisation’s information assets.
The third module will focus upon data protection law and practice.
The programme will not only provide you with valuable knowledge of current law and proposed developments to the law and to the principles of information governance, it will also enhance your ability to advise upon both information governance and data protection.
The research, writing and presentation skills you will develop will also be of use to you in your working environment.
Unlike typical CPD type learning this programme will challenge you to undertake critical evaluation of the law and to consider the application of information governance and security to your own/a chosen organisation.
Mode of Study 1 year Distance Learning
We believe, however, that opportunities to engage with your tutors and with fellow students are an important part of your learning experience.
On two of the modules you will be offered the opportunity to meet your tutors and attend lectures or workshops at the University at an optional study day.
All of the content will be available online should you not be able to attend.
On the third module you will be encouraged to engage with your tutor and with fellow students via the module discussion board.
Each taught module is assessed via written assignment.
On the legal research module you will work in a group with other postgraduate students to undertake the research, writing and review of that assignment.
On the data protection module and the information governance module you will submit an individual written assignment at the end of each module.
As part of the assessment process you will be expected to undertake a critical evaluation of the law, and to consider information governance and security in your own or another chosen organisation.
Northumbria Law School is actively involved in research and consultancy in the field of data protection, information sharing, freedom of information and privacy law.
The iSchool, which delivers the information governance and security module, is widely recognised for its innovative distance and work-based learning programmes in information and records management and for its related research.
This course is delivered by a team of solicitors and academics with extensive experience in data protection and information governance, who are actively researching the area.
In addition our team also boast memberships to key professional bodies, in addition to editing industry publications such as the Records Management Journal.
Learning materials such as module handbooks, assessment information, lecture presentation slides, recorded lectures and electronic reading lists will be available via our highly accessible e-learning platform, Blackboard.
You can also access student support and other key University systems through your personal account.
Your student journey commences with the Legal Research module.
This module will help you to gain a clear awareness and understanding of appropriate legal research methods and legal sources and how to cite those sources.
In your subsequent modules your tutors will expose you to a range of academic literature covering substantive data protection law and relevant information governance and data security frameworks and principles.
You will also develop your legal research skills further as your tutors encourage you to discuss, evaluate and critically examine relevant principles and frameworks and as you undertake your own research in order to complete your module assignments.
View all research
It recognises that the introduction of a new data protection regulation will result in significant challenges for professionals working in the data protection field, and seeks to help you to develop the skills and knowledge which you will need to do your job professionally notwithstanding the changing legislation framework.
It also provides a strong foundation for further study.
Should you decide upon completion of the programme that you wish to further develop your knowledge then you can move towards a PG Diploma in Information Rights Law and Practice and then on successful completion of this programme a Master in Law in Information Rights Law and Practice.
Further details of both these programmes can be obtained from the Programme Leader
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree in Law, or an honours degree with law modules.
Relevant professional qualifications or suitable experience will also be considered.
Full UK Fee:
                                £3,233
Full International Fee:
                                £3,233
Whilst books are made available via the University Library, students may wish to purchase key texts.
One text per module is recommended for purchase throughout this course.
There is one study day, held at Northumbria University, associated with each of the three modules on this course that would give rise to travel and accommodation costs.
(The study days are not compulsory).
KC7046 -
Information Governance and Security (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about the information governance and security principles that underpin the management of an organisation’s information assets.
This will enable you to evaluate an organisation’s current approach to information governance and security and to advise on the design and implementation of an appropriate strategy for managing an organisation’s information assets to meet legal, regulatory, organisational and/or societal needs for information governance and security.
Topics include: •	Key concepts and principles of information governance and security •	Information governance, security, risk and business continuity frameworks and standards •	Legislative and regulatory frameworks •	Strategies, policy and procedures •	Risk management and business continuity •	Embedding information governance and security (incl.
roles, responsibilities and culture)
LW7002 -
Data Protection (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will develop a critical understanding of the laws relating to data protection in the UK.
Whilst the UK is no longer a part of the European Union, some consideration will also be given to the European position, recognising that UK laws have been shaped in Europe and that guidance emanating from the Article 29 Working Party and the European Data Protection Board may be helpful in understanding the UK legislation.
You will examine the development of data protection law in England and Europe, the provisions of the Data Protection Act 2018 (‘the DPA 2018’), the UK and the EUGeneral Data Protection Regulation(GDPR).
The module will take a critical look at the legal framework that governs data protection and privacy.
This module covers the following topics: 1.
The history and development of UK data protection law.
Key definitions within the UK GDPR and DPA 2018 and how they have been interpreted and applied.
The key principles detailed within the UK GDPR which govern data processing.
The Rights detailed in the UK GDPR.
The obligations which are imposed on organisations over how they process personal data.
6.
Notification and Enforcement.
LW7003 -
Legal Research (Core,20 Credits)
This module seeks to prepare you for the legal research you will be undertaking on your  postgraduate programme.
This will ensure that you have an appropriate understanding and awareness of appropriate research methods with a particular focus upon:  seeking and obtaining legal research sources, recording that data to an appropriate academic standard including issues of referencing and plagiarism, along with effective communication of research methods for example in written essays and oral presentations.
The module focuses on the development of skills in three keys areas: problem identification and analysis, information gathering and presentation of results.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-data-science-extended-degree-uusxsc1:
From e-commerce to healthcare and finance, data scientists make sense of vast quantities of information, pioneering new products and life-saving drugs, and helping organisations to work smarter.
Data science will transform the next decade - changing businesses, the economy, and how we live our lives.
It will continue to be one of the most in-demand career paths for trained professionals.
And you can be part of it at Northumbria University, Newcastle.
You will start with computer science essentials, such as computer programming, data management, and cloud computing, before moving on to key topics in artificial intelligence, algorithms and data structures, data mining, data visualisation, data analytics, and big data.
Throughout your studies, you will have plenty of opportunities to practice your skills.
You will take part in a business consultancy project, delivering solutions to real-world problems This can be here in Newcastle or at our partner campus in London.
See other similar courses you may be interested in such as our Artificial Intelligence BSc or discover what courses you could progress onto after successful completion of this course: Data Science MSc
UCAS Code Z066
Hear what it is really like to study Computer and Information Sciences from our students and staff
You will study computer science essentials like computational thinking, programming and computing fundamentals.
You will also get introduced to data and AI.
Thanks to some shared modules, you’ll get to know other students on our computer science degrees and make connections between the different topics we teach.
As you progress, you become a specialist, focusing almost entirely on data science.
You will study data mining, algorithms and data structures, and data visualisation, and have the chance to spend up to half your time on a consultancy project in based on real-world contexts, getting real-life experience.
You study data security and governance, Big Data, and complete a group computing project with fellow students.
You also complete your dissertation.
This is your chance to impress employers by designing, building and evaluating your own data science product.
Emma Anderson
Professor Wai Lok Woo
You will have access to dedicated computing areas which you can use during free periods and into the evenings and weekends.
Take a virtual tour.
As a graduate in Data Science, you’re going to be in high demand.
As more and more businesses need to adapt to technological advances, the demand for data science skills increases.
Your future career options include: Data Analyst, Data Architect, Data Scientist, Information Officer/CIO, Business Intelligence Analyst, Big Data Solutions Architect, Database Manager, Data Modeller, and more.
Plus, since lots of different industries need data science skills, you could choose to work in sectors like: Financial services, Healthcare, Technology, Marketing, Government, Military, Agriculture, Gaming, and Retail.
Studying Data Science at Northumbria doesn’t limit you to only Data Science roles, however.
With the skills and knowledge gained through Computer Science modules, you may also be qualified for a wider range of careers.
For example: programmer, software developer, web developer, UX professional, researcher, and more.
You will graduate with specialist skills and knowledge in: Big Data, Data mining, Data structures, Data security, Algorithms, and more.
As well as essential professional skills such as effective communication, problem solving, informational literacy, and teamwork.
An alternative option could be study abroad.
Big Data (Core,20 Credits)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-data-science-uusdsc1:
UCAS Code G415
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study BSc (Hons) Data Science.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/data-science-msc-16-months-dtfdas6:
Our Data Science MSc will provide you with the ability to explore data insights to ensure organisations are making the most out of their data.
You will develop knowledge insight from a variety of structured and unstructured data, using a range of data analysis methods, processes, algorithms and systems.
The course provides a greater understanding of Big Data and Cloud computing and will equip you with skills needed to tackle realistic Big Data problems.
You will use principal machine learning methods, advanced database technologies, data visualisation techniques and statistical approaches to apply modern, analytical and statistical techniques to business data - combining both theoretical and practical approaches.
You will also become equipped with programming skills in Python and R for effective, efficient, statistical data analysis.
This course is suited to those who have an undergraduate degree in computing/information sciences, or mathematical and statistical disciplines with applied computing components.
It is ideal for graduates who wish to advance their career by becoming a data scientist.
Alternatively, those with a considerable computing background in an industrial / business setting are suitable applicants.
See
other similar courses you may be interested in: Business Analytics MSc
Listen to Programme Leader Dr Akhtar Ali talk about the Data Science MSc at Northumbria, in our Masters in a Minute (or so) and discover what the course involves and why this course could be for you.
You will take six taught modules covering principles of data science, computational and statistical methods and techniques,  programming in Python and R, advanced databases, Big Data in a cloud computing setting, machine learning, and transferable skills in project management and research.
Finally, you will undertake a major data science project, allowing you to specialise in a subject of interest to you (e.g Business Analytics, Health Analytics and Game Analytics).
You will complete practical tasks based on real-life situations, accompanied by critical reflection, and will follow standard professional practice.
Our eminent academics have written books that regularly appear on reading lists for information science courses at universities all over the world.
They also work as external examiners and reviewers of courses and research at other UK and non-UK universities.
Dr Ammar Belatreche
Dr Muhammad Muzammal
Dr Naveed Anwar
Pingfan Wang
You are also invited to attend department research seminars and workshops organised by IoC (Institute of Coding).
These provide another opportunity for exposure to research methods and contemporary research issues in computer and data sciences.
You will be well placed to take up a range of roles available in the IT based business world including, but not limited to, Information and Data Manager, Business Systems Analyst, Enterprise Data Analyst, Data Scientist, Data Engineer, and Data Specialist.
These roles are in a variety of industries including investment management, healthcare and banking, amongst many others.
There is currently high demand for data science specialists in the UK IT sector.
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree (or equivalent) in a quantitative subject such as computer / information science, engineering, maths, statistics, or a related discipline (e.g.
IT, software engineering).
KL7010 -
Principles of Data Science (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will learn data science lifecycle and foundations, principles, and fundamental statistical methods, techniques and applications in data science.
You will explore key areas of data science including question and hypotheses formulation, data collection and cleaning, visualization, statistical inference, predictive modelling, and decision-making.
You will learn fundamental aspects of probability and statistics to equip you to lead standard data analysis projects in industry and research.
The module will cover broad topics such as: • Foundations of Data Science • Principles and techniques of Data Science • Review and evaluation of Data Science methods, techniques and tools
KL7012 -
Statistical Programming (Core,20 Credits)
The aim of this module is to provide you with the knowledge and practical skills for understanding the statistical methods and programming for data science.
It also equip you with programming skills in R for effective and efficient statistical data analysis.
This module is primarily concerned with examining and analysing data using R (statistical programming) arising from real world environments (e.g., businesses, industries) and to relate the extracted information to strategic, tactical and operational decision-making.
You will covers topics such as: • Introduction to statistical modelling, data processing and big data and to challenges in practical data analyses • Fundamental statistics: variable types: nominal, ordinal, categorical.
Formulae: functions, powers, summation • Introduction to R programming language environment • Introduction to practical data analysis with the statistical software environment R for data manipulation, sampling, importing and exporting data and for drawing Scatterplot, Histogram, etc.
• Application and implementation of core statistical analysis using R (e.g., probability and distributions, Statistical models (e.g., Linear models, Generalized linear models, Nonlinear least squares and maximum likelihood models) • How to subsume and to present results of statistical data analyses (for statisticians and non-statisticians) • Practical statistical analysis of real data sets, reporting and presentation of the obtained results
Jan, Sep start

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/data-science-msc-dtfdsc6:
This programme is designed to train and produce data scientists who will fill a range of jobs requiring skills in methodical and statistical data analysis and help organisations (e.g., businesses, healthcare providers, financial institutions, industries) make the most of their huge amounts of data.
You will develop knowledge insight from a variety of structured and unstructured data, using a range of data analysis methods, processes, algorithms, and systems.
You will take five taught modules covering core areas of data science from principles, computational and statistical methods and techniques to programming in Python and R to advanced databases, Big Data in a cloud computing setting, and machine learning.
The sixth module covers transferable skills in project management and research that support your preparation for a Masters Project.
Finally, you will take a major data science project, which will allow you to specialise subject of interest to you (e.g., Business Analytics, Health Analytics, Game Analytics, etc).
You will complete practical tasks based on real-life situations, accompanied by critical reflection, and will follow standard professional practice within an organisation/ industry/ business through a data science project.
It is an ideal course for graduates who wish to advance their career by becoming a data scientist.
After successfully completing this programme, you will be well placed to take up a range of roles available in the IT based business world including but not limited to Information and Data Manager, Business Systems Analyst, Enterprise Data Analyst, Data Scientist, Data Engineer, and Data Specialist.
Not only this, you will have access to our state-of-the-art facilities and cutting edge equipment for learning and research.
You will be placed in the newly built Computer and Information Sciences building, located at the heart of Northumbria’s campus in the city centre of the vibrant city of Newcastle.
Northumbria’s Institute of Coding (IoC) are funded by the renowned Office for Students (OfS) .
This programme is available as; 12 months, 16 months and 2 years with Advanced Practice .
See other similar courses you might be interested in: Business Analytics MSc
Northumbria is ranked 3rd in the UK for Information Systems & Management studies (Times Good University Guide, 2025)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-data-science-dtfdsj6:
Designed in consultation with partners from
industry, and the business sector, our highly practical Data Science Masters
provides you with the relevant skills needed to analyse, synthesise and manage
different types and sizes of data efficiently.
Our Data Science
MSc will provide you with the ability to explore data insights to ensure
organisations are making the most out of their data.
You will develop knowledge
insight from a variety of structured and unstructured data, using a range of
data analysis methods, processes, algorithms and systems.
The
course provides a greater understanding of Big Data and Cloud computing and
will equip you with skills needed to tackle realistic Big Data problems.
You
will use principal machine learning methods, advanced database technologies,
data visualisation techniques and statistical approaches to apply modern,
analytical and statistical techniques to business data - combining both
theoretical and practical approaches.
You will also become equipped with
programming skills in Python and R for effective, efficient, statistical data
analysis.
This
course is suited to those who have an undergraduate degree in
computing/information sciences, or mathematical and statistical disciplines
with applied computing components.
It is ideal for graduates who wish to
advance their career by becoming a data scientist.
Alternatively, those with a
considerable computing background in an industrial / business setting are
suitable applicants.
Find out what's available

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/data-science-advance-practice-msc-dtsdsc6:
Start September 2025 or January 2026

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/design-foundation-year-uusdfn1:
W275
1 year Full Time followed by a further 3 years Full Time or 4 years with a placement (sandwich)/study abroad
Northumbria School of Design, Arts and Creative Industries, Northumbria School of Design
If you're interested in exploring various creative design fields while gaining the knowledge and skills needed to enter a design degree course, this course is perfect for you.
The one-year Design Foundation course at Northumbria offers a solid introduction to university-level education, welcoming students from all backgrounds.
At Northumbria, you'll benefit from modern and innovative teaching informed by research and practice.
This approach helps you develop your skills, knowledge, and creativity, setting you up for success as an undergraduate student and eventually as a Northumbria graduate.
The course builds essential academic skills and confidence across multiple design disciplines.
With experienced tutors and strong industry connections, it prepares you for advanced studies and aligns with various career paths in the design industry.
This blend of academic learning and practical application enhances your future employability.
You'll learn from a diverse group of design practitioners, technicians, and academics with extensive backgrounds in design practice, teaching, and research.
Their expertise and the supportive, research-rich environment will provide you with a well-rounded education, encouraging you to continue your studies in your chosen design field.
This course is an excellent first step towards a career in the creative design sector.
Art and Design at Northumbria is ranked 4th in the UK for research power (REF, 2021).
Northumbria is ranked 11th in the UK for Fashion & Textiles (Guardian University League Table, 2025).
Northumbria is ranked 1st in the UK for Interior Design studies (Guardian University League Table, 2025).
Northumbria is ranked 4th in the UK for Product Design studies (Guardian University League Table, 2025).
The Design Foundation course is delivered over one year and broken down into 3 blocks that will allow you to study from a broad choice of creative design disciplines and equip you with the subject knowledge and essential skills that will be required for your entry into a degree program in design:
Through a set of lively design projects and lectures, you will experience a range of specialist design skills and explore how historical and contemporary thinking influences design.
(Skills include for example: fashion and textiles and textile craft, painting, sculpture, 4D photography and time-based media and drawing and conceptual practice, graphic design, illustration, fashion communication and film and animation, architecture and spatial design, jewellery, footwear, and fashion accessories, product design and ceramics and design for theatre screen and performance.)
Through a range of short projects, you will rotate through the 4 different design specialisms of communication design, product design, fashion design and interior design to explore these subject’s areas in more detail.
You culminate your studies on the course giving you the opportunity to showcase your confidence, skills and knowledge through a self-directed design project in a design specialism of your choice, the module will include a field trip.
The skills and knowledge that you have acquired is curated and presented into a portfolio that is supported with a public exhibition of all your work undertaken over the academic year.
DE3001 -
Design Studio Skills (Core,20 Credits)
The Design Studio Skills module serves as an essential starting point for developing core practical design skills.
It provides a comprehensive introduction to key design practices that will prepare you for exploring specialised disciplines in subsequent modules.
As an introductory study, it is designed to help you build confidence and competence in fundamental design approaches, ensuring you have a solid grounding in the basics before moving on to design specialisms.
Throughout the module, you will engage in hands-on studio work that covers a range of key design skills, including sketching, visual communication, model making, and the use of digital tools and design software.
You will be introduced to the design process, beginning with research and idea generation, and progressing through development, refinement, and final presentation of your ideas.
The emphasis will be on experimentation, allowing you to explore different media, materials, and design techniques in a supportive environment.
DE3002 -
Design Contexts (Core,20 Credits)
The Design Context module explores the historical, cultural, and contemporary issues in design, giving you a broad understanding of how design has evolved and its relevance in today's world.
You will study key design movements and the work of influential designers, gaining insight into how their contributions shaped the current landscape.
The module also introduces critical debates around contemporary issues, such as sustainability, ethics, and technological innovation, fostering an understanding of the challenges designers face in today’s society.
Through a combination of lectures, group discussions, and case studies, you will explore design within the disciplines of communication design, product design, fashion, and interior design.
This broad scope allows you to see how different areas of design intersect and influence each other, laying the groundwork for your progression into a specialised undergraduate programme.
The module will also emphasise design's societal impact, encouraging you to think critically about the ethical and cultural implications of your work.
DE3003 -
Design Specialisms (Core,40 Credits)
This module is designed to introduce you to four key design disciplines, communication design, interior design, product design, and fashion design, giving you a comprehensive overview of each field.
The primary aim is to help you explore these areas through hands-on projects and research, allowing you to gain practical experience and understand the unique approaches and methodologies of each discipline.
By the end of the module, you will have the knowledge and confidence to make an informed decision about which undergraduate design programme within the School of Design best aligns with your interests and strengths.
Specialist academic staff with a range of design industry and research experience will guide you through key areas of each discipline to provide an introductory understanding to the subjects, helping you gain an understanding of each specialism and provide a strong creative basis to be implemented in future subject specific design projects.
DE3004 -
Major Design Project (Core,20 Credits)
This module provides an opportunity to tackle a design challenge within one of the subject areas you’ve previously explored in the programme.
You will follow a complete design process, from research to project realisation, allowing you to build on the skills, knowledge, and understanding gained throughout the Design Foundation modules.
The aim is to guide you through researching, conceptualising, and developing a final design solution, encouraging you to explore a range of ideas in a studio environment and take ownership of your learning.
Throughout the module, you will present your design concepts and artefacts to tutors and peers in various formats, learning to reflect on feedback and improve your work.
The project will demonstrate how your practical skills, theoretical knowledge, and conceptual thinking have evolved.
You will be encouraged to experiment and take creative risks and may present you with an opportunity to enhance your portfolio by exploring a complementary area of design.
The final outcome will support your transition into further undergraduate studies, showcasing the critical and reflective approach you’ve developed.
DE3005 -
Design Portfolio and Exhibition (Core,20 Credits)
On this module, you will learn how to develop and present a professional design portfolio and exhibition that showcases your evolving design skills and creative expertise in one of the four design disciplines; communication design, interior design, product design or fashion design.
You will be encouraged to experiment with visual communication, take creative risks, and refine your personal design approach.
The process will allow you to become a more confident and competent designer, essential for a professional career in the design industry.
You will also learn the fundamental principles of visual communication, this will be complemented by visual research methods and critical thinking skills, helping you build a solid academic foundation for further study and development.
Throughout the module, you will focus on creativity and innovation, exploring how designers work in the modern world and adapting to changing trends.
Digital literacy will be essential as you prepare your final portfolio for presentation.
Additionally, you will develop collaboration and teamwork skills by working with peers to organise and present your final exhibition.
Embarking on the Design Foundation Year is just the beginning of your creative journey.
This foundation year is designed to immerse you in the principles of design, spark your creativity, and equip you with essential skills.
Once you complete this year, a range of specialised courses awaits you, allowing you to pursue your passion and carve out a niche in the design world.
Find out more about the exciting design courses you can pursue after the Foundation Year below:
Fashion
Fashion Communication
Fashion Design and Marketing
Graphic Design
Digital Design
Interior Design
Product Design
Furniture and Product Design
From the start of the course, you'll be encouraged to develop both independent and group learning and research skills.
We emphasise transferable skills, especially in communication and presentation.
You'll also build your confidence and abilities as a university learner through a detailed induction, lectures, seminars, and creative skills workshops.
The course is designed to be flexible, allowing you to explore different avenues of design and find your strengths.
You’ll work on scrapbook presentations, concept visualisations, 2D and 3D design projects, essays, and presentations.
You’ll end your course by compiling a portfolio of your design work and we celebrate the conclusion of your year by holding a design show and exhibition.
A Students Perspective
Previous foundation year student, Kamile, shares more about her journey
You will be taught by a breadth of internationally leading design practitioners, researchers and educators.
Their expertise includes visual communication, UX/UI design, data visualisation, digital arts, publishing and social innovation.
By sharing their design expertise, they will help you shape your own design future through the course.
Dr Marco Mason
Hugo Glover
Simon Scott- Harden
Steve Gibson
Our course is predominantly delivered in purpose-made design studios, which provide space for formal teaching but also are open for independent study.
Alongside the studios you have access to a comprehensive range of technical facilities, workshops, creative technology, photography studios, dedicated computer aided design lab, and large format printing.
You will also have easy access to a wealth of knowledge through Northumbria University’s award winning library.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/design-dtfdey6:
The MRes Design taught programme gives you the opportunity to carry out original in-depth design research, within the broad spectrum of Design Research, including, communication design, product design, fashion, craft, interior design, historical or theoretical studies  in design, digital media or performance, while developing the skills to become an independent, critical, and innovative thinker, maker, and design researcher.
You will undertake a specialist research project, based upon your own focused proposal, which may be subject-specific or span multiple design disciplines.
The centrepiece of the MRes Design is an 20000-word Dissertation or body of practical work  +  10000-word Dissertation.
For more information read our application guide .
We also have a part-time version of the MRes Design.
The Design MRes is based around self-directed study, but you are supported by a framework of four modules.
You are assessed on a presentation at that symposium, a 3000-word written paper, and a 1500 word written reflection upon the organising process (totalling 30 credits).
Across semesters two and three the Dissertation module supports the development of  your Design MRes final project; a 20,000 word dissertation, or significant body of practical design work supported by a 10,000 word dissertation (90 credits).
The majority of summative assessment on the MRes Design is through written assignments.
For practice-based students, there is also the option of the submission of a body of practice work for the final Dissertation assessment.
Take a look at the academic profiles of our staff to learn more about their individual accolades and experience.
Design MRes Staff
Dr Rupert Ashmore
Ysanne Holt
Dr Elsa Devienne
It has been fitted out with state-of-the-art facilities and the latest in design technology including:
You’ll also come into contact with other researchers in the School of Design community, and teaching staff with experience as designers, technicians, craftsmen and journalists.
Click here to view 360 degree images of the Design School facilities
Our Communities of Practice are led by professors and academic experts and include innovators in residence along with MA, MRes and PhD students engaged in research, innovation and enterprise projects with external partners.
Communities of Practice
You’ll be able to demonstrate critical awareness of research and scholarship in your chosen design discipline and show that you are self-motivated, disciplined and possess a thirst for independent learning.
Throughout the course, you’ll build on your undergraduate skills, adding intensity, complexity and depth of study as you also develop communication, time management and highly developed research and inquiry skills.
Your studies have a real world focus and you’ll be encouraged to make contact with external contacts in industry and academia to develop your research and its potential impact, and grow a network of valuable contacts.
We seek to nurture home-grown talent to support and grow the economic, social, cultural and intellectual capital of the region and beyond, into the wider global marketplace.
Applicants will be computer literate as appropriate to the subject of study i.e.
AutoCad, 3D StudioMax and Adobe Creative Suite and should be familiar with the use of internet technologies It is essential that students studying this postgraduate design programme have access to the following: A scanner or means of digitalising image or design work A computer with access to the internet An internet browser such as Internet Explorer or Safari Acrobat Writer and Reader Imaging processing software such as Adobe Photoshop / 3D StudioMax / AutoCad etc.</li</li</li</li</li</li</li</li
AutoCad, 3D StudioMax and Adobe Creative Suite and should be familiar with the use of internet technologies
It is essential that students studying this postgraduate design programme have access to the following:
All costs are recommended, not mandatory.Throughout your programme of study, students are expected to be able to access a computer / laptop for study on this course.
Access to computers are through the Masters Study suite in the Library and potentially within the School of Design.
If students want to work remotely / at home, then it is expected that they will have their own personal laptops and relevant software and it is also a recommendation that you purchase a portable hard drive(s) to back up your digital work (approx.
£ 50) as well as a personal SD card for digital cameras (approx.
£10) if photographic equipment is needed for your research.
Further costs may be incured by students depending on the nature of their research, for example, practice-based research, and these costs will be covered by the student.
Access to specialist equipment on campus will be negotiated with the Programme Leader.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/design-dtpdey6:
For more information read our application guide.
In semester one, the Research Methods module is based around a series of seminars, which explore methodologies for researching visual and material culture.
Module, assessment is through written assignments totalling 6,000 words (30 credits per module).
In semester one, the Critical Contexts module is based around a series of seminars, which explore critical the themes, concepts and practices in contemporary arts research .
After graduating from Northumbria’s School of Design, Bruce Montgomery became a designer for fashion brands including Katherine Hamnett, Moschino and Jeff Banks.
Matthew Lievesley has helped develop improved care-pathways for people with Type II Diabetes in collaboration with Newcastle University Medical School.
Dr Irini Pitsaki specialises in Design Management and Strategic Brand Management with more than 15 years of experience as a researcher and lecturer in higher education.
Dr Mersha Aftab’s current work looks at Role of Design at strategic level in multinational industries.
Her passion for teaching led to a full time lectureship teaching Innovation.
Dr Stuart English is a specialist in design led innovation, and the creator of Ideas-lab.
He leads a portfolio of postgraduate programmes.
Elizabeth MacLarty has a degree in Fine Art from Leeds University and her research interests include the relationship of theory to practice, particularly in Design Education teaching practice.
Stuart English
Mark Bailey
Teaching Fellow
Alongside teaching staff with experience as designers, technicians, craftsmen and journalists, you’ll also learn from visiting designers and design professionals.
Design Issues
This research group addresses complex social and cultural issues from a design perspective.
We work on themes such as social care issues with the Carers Centre Newcastle and Alzheimer’s Scotland; socio-economic challenges with Newcastle YMCA and Traidcraft and mental health issues.
Design Innovation and Research Methods
This group focuses on innovating and creating value across society by applying design-led innovation better research methods to support the work of designers in context.
Work involves the industrial and commercial sector, such as design's role in corporate innovation and creativity in product manufacturing and service organisations.
Design Making
This research group focuses on materials and the cultural and technology benefits of making in society.
Researchers work in product, industrial, interaction, service, textile, craft, fashion and interior design disciplines.
Our Communities of Practice are led by professors and academic experts and include innovators in residence along with MA and PhD students engaged in research, innovation and enterprise projects with external partners.
Your studies have a real world focus and you’ll have the opportunity to work with external partners and industries to develop your experience and network of contacts.
We seek to nurture home-grown talent to support and grow the economic, social, cultural and intellectual capital of the region and beyond.
As a graduate you’ll be able to demonstrate critical thinking and judgement and will leave equipped with excellent practical, communication, and transferable skills.
You will become an expert on your chosen research topic and well placed to use this as a platform to excel in your career and contribute to the community and the wider world in which you live.
There are considerable opportunities for you to advance your studies further, with advice in writing PhD and funding applications available to support students.
On graduating, you will have a qualification which may enhance your promotion prospects in the fields of teaching, professional research, museums and archives, public policy, and project management.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ma-digital-and-immersive-arts-dtfdii6:
Our Digital and Immersive Arts Masters programme equips you with the skills to work as a practitioner in creative and cultural industries at the highest level using virtual and immersive technologies.
You will be exposed to the most cutting-edge work in digital and immersive art and technology with the opportunity to work with industry partners such as Advanced Media Production (AMP) Gateshead, housed at Digital Catapult North East and Northern Dance on live briefs.
Working in groups alongside colleagues from these industry partners will enable you to critically analyse creative processes and approaches to technological production.
Digital and Immersive technologies are now all around us and so this Masters degree course addresses a growing need for expertise in the areas of virtual reality, audio-visual technology, as well as virtual film and performance.
Throughout this Masters degree programme you will develop your skills within core technologies, but will also specialise in diverse areas, such as 3D programming, audio-visuals, gaming, virtual reality, etc.
depending on your personal skill sets and interests.
Alongside this, our programme provides the critical skills needed to research and evaluate the products of the digital and immersive arts.
Digital and Immersive Arts is characterised by its transdisciplinary nature as it responds to the increasingly complex challenges and opportunities within the industry.
Subject areas of arts, animation, film, communication design, graphic design and games design often provide transferrable skills in terms of the digital and immersive arts.
However, this Masters course is open to students from all disciplines and undergraduate subject areas and is directly aimed at students who are interested in becoming expert at one more than one discipline.
You will have the opportunity to collaborate with
our course partners from across the creative and creative industries with AMP
Gateshead and Northern Dance through live projects, allowing you to
build your professional skills, your portfolio, and your network of contacts.
See
other similar courses you may be interested in completing for undergraduates
: Games Computing BSc
Collaborating with Digital Catapult North East
Working with Northern Dance
The Digital and Immersive Arts Masters is based around self-directed study, but you are supported by a framework of four modules, each of which will allow you to develop your personal digital and immersive skills.
These four modules explore key areas such as the impact of digital enfoldment as well as melding the concepts and forms of the creative arts with digital and immersive technology.
These modules tackle the current practical skills necessary including an understanding of the core technologies needed for producing compelling digital immersive experiences.
You will develop your ability to conceptualise, theorise and undertake research which addresses the complex issues of immersive technology.
As well as this you will work both individually and as a member of a team, recognising different team roles and multicultural/environmental issues on projects.
These projects will explore innovations, advances, and key issues at the frontiers of Digital and Immersive Arts and their implications.
Assessment will be based on the creation of and presentation of a portfolio of practice which will contain a combination of creative practice, contextual and critical writing, and presentations.
In semesters 1 and 2 you will periodically be expected to present your work in critiques and presentations, which will be formatively assessed in order to help you best advance your practice with creative technologies.
The Digital and Immersive Arts Masters welcomes students from a wide range of interests.
Whether your project is focused on the fine art practice, digital media production, interactive design, film and television, or wider aspects of visual and material culture, you will be supported by a supervisory team with expertise in your subject.
This course is taught by a team of specialist academics with the relevant expertise to guide you in the intersecting disciplines within this programme and are themselves either experienced practitioners, researchers, or practitioner-researchers.
Digital and Immersive Arts staff have specialist knowledge in art and design practice and theory, digital arts practices, interaction design, animation and simulation, film and television studies, curating, socially engaged arts, and performance.
Staff members will also help you develop the skills required to plan, manage, and review your learning.
Throughout the duration of this course, you will receive ongoing support from teaching staff to ensure you leave equipped with the necessary skills and knowledge to successfully pursue a career within the digital and immersive arts.
Here are just a few of Northumbria's academic staff with expertise in Digital and Immersive Arts.
Paul Dolan
The facilities of our partners in this course are also available to you, with the opportunity to work on live projects using the Advanced Media Production studio at Digital Catapult North East, which houses a state-of-the-art motion-capture volume as part of a fully equipped Virtual Production Suite.
This facility forms part of the UK’s first low latency 5G network that allows multiple types of media content to be created simultaneously in real-time.
Pioneering arts, dance and media technology centre, Northern Dance also offer excellent facilities including multi-screen projection, motion-tracking, an extensive light rig and a large sound stage.
Our University Library (which is ranked in the top three in the UK), and our well-equipped working space, The Hub, which is open 24 hours a day, seven days a week is available for all students.
Throughout your course you will have access to our e-learning platform, Blackboard, which offers access to collaboration tools and video/audio-enhanced features, electronic feedback, discussion boards, blogs, and student websites.
You will be immersed in research-rich learning from the outset of your studies.
Research-rich learning is embedded throughout all aspects of this programme with the opportunity to work with industry partners Digital Catapult North East, and Northern Dance, enabling students to address both the known and emerging skills required in the Digital and Immersive Arts.
This programme takes an enquiry and research-based learning approach, which is strongly student-centred, and provides students with the opportunity to develop and enhance marketable skills in self-directed study, independent research, interpersonal learning, and communication.
The core learning philosophy of the MA in Digital and Immersive Arts is based on a deep integration of art and design practice and technology-based research.
Key to this programme is also a philosophy of “learning by doing,” whereby new concepts, technologies, forms, and ideas are tested in practice.
In addition, you have access to specialist postgraduate training workshops, studio space where relevant, and events both on and beyond the campus.
All students are continually informed of events and opportunities of special interest to their research through the electronic learning portal, while regular individual tutorials with project supervisors will enable you to develop your project effectively.
Discover more about the research currently taking place within Design, and across the University within our multidisciplinary research themes.
Feeling inspired?
Join us to make a remarkable impact on tomorrow.
Creative and Cultural Industries
Multidisciplinary research
Design
Departmental research
You will also have access to the Graduate Futures team, which provides online and face to face support with your career planning, applications, interviews, job, and placement search, as well as virtual and on campus events delivered by expert staff and employers keen to recruit Northumbria students.
The Digital and immersive Arts Masters degree at Northumbria has employability embedded, so from day one you will be gaining sought-after skills and behaviours, that will make you much more employable when you graduate.
You will gain transferable employability skills though project work and practical problem solving through real-world examples.
Our live briefs, guest masterclasses and networking opportunities will give you the experience that creative employers are looking for.
Below are examples of live projects we have recently run on our programme:
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree in a related discipline such as fine art, media art, animation, performing arts, film production, theatre, interaction design, digital design, communication design, music technology, or computing.
You may be required to submit a digital portfolio.
For advice on preparing your portfolio, please visit www.northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/coming-to-northumbria/portfolios-and-auditions
IA7000 -
Research for Practitioners (Core,40 Credits)
Research for Practitioners is a 40-credit module which spans across semesters one and two.
Forms of digital immersion have emerged due to the convergence of technology and culture and this module introduces key areas of knowledge to critically consider their impact.
The module offers a structured introduction to the intellectual frameworks which can be employed to both support and interrogate the impact of digital enfoldment on the individual psyche and wider culture.
These fields of knowledge include Philosophy, Media Theory, Art Theory and Art History and you will be guided and supported as you integrate these ideas to critically address the role of Digital and Immersive Arts within contemporary culture.
You will also learn about the key philosophical underpinnings of the concept of immersion and will be challenged to reflect on these within your theoretical work.
IA7001 -
Introduction to Immersive Media (Core,40 Credits)
This module will help you develop a broad practical understanding of the core technologies employed in the production of immersive environments and digitally mediated audio-visual performance.
A series of lectures will offer an overview of the current and emerging immersive technologies and how they are being employed within the Arts and Design, including Contemporary Art, interaction design, music, theatre, film and the games industry.
It is expected that there will be cross-over with your theoretical work in Research for Practitioners, particularly around issues of technology and the body, and the ethics of advanced media production, You will also explore critical contextualisation and installation-making, live and live-remote broadcast forms, as well as their VR and AI expansions.
Through a series of visually rich lectures you will learn the long history of immersion, as well as the philosophies behind ideas of the technology and experience.
You will be introduced to core technologies through a series of practical workshops and seminars.
You will explore key immersive technologies such as real-time audio-visual production and digital performance methods, 3D computer graphics, audio-visuals, virtual reality and projection mapping.
You will also be introduced to a range of technologies to interact with digital content using bodily gesture and expression.
The module will also demonstrate the creative use of digital and immersive technology, as used by digital and immersive artists, and will enable you to apply your creative skills in a variety of technologically mediated contexts.
Virtual and immersive technologies are complex, and the production of immersive environments and experiences require an interdisciplinary approach which draws from a wide range of creative and technical fields.
The module is therefore designed to encourage team working through self-generated projects, and through the creation of short individually designed interactive and/or immersive projects.
Working in these ways will allow you to solve complex technological challenges and to create new bodies of original work.
IA7002 -
Creating Virtual and Immersive Experiences (Core,40 Credits)
This module builds on the knowledge acquired in Introduction to Immersive Media (IA7001) to further embed the essential skills necessary to produce compelling digital immersive experiences.
You will further develop the ability to successfully meld the concepts and forms of the creative arts with digital and immersive technology, and you will apply these technological and creative skills in a variety of technologically mediated contexts.
This module has 2 components.
Component 1 You will be introduced to a range of cutting-edge technologies including motion-capture, which is used extensively in the Cultural industries to capture very detailed information in terms of image, texture and movement.
You will be simultaneously introduced to motion-tracking, which is used extensively in live audio-visual and dance performance as well as immersive installations, to measure user movement and affect immersive audio-visuals.
A series of lectures will offer an overview of their application within the creative industries, as well as key research questions around ethics and technology.
Seminars will be interspersed with these sessions, which will allow the students to develop and present initial ideas that will serve as prototypes for the final submission.
A series of practical sessions will lead you through the processes involved in capturing and tracking detailed three-dimensional imagery and movement.
These technologies and skills may be introduced through a live project with a collaborative partner drawn from the creative industries.
This project will give you the opportunity to work as teams as you apply these technologies to the brief set by the partner.
Self-directed projects may also be undertaken by student who want to generate their own group or team proposition.
Component 2 You will develop a proposal for your Major Project (IA7003) which forms the centre piece of your Masters work.
You will be guided through the requirements of the forthcoming module and you will carry out preliminary research and development and develop a short project proposal which will be refined in the following semester.
IA7003 -
Major Project (Core,60 Credits)
In this module you will learn through practice to professionally meld the concepts and forms of the creative arts with digital and immersive technology, and you will apply these technological and creative skills in a specific context that illustrates your mastery of digital and immersive arts.
This module has two components.
Firstly, you will produce a significant piece of work in the area of Digital and Immersive Arts and this builds directly on the practical experience and knowledge gained in modules IA7001 and will be directly informed by the research and development carried out in IA7002.
Secondly, you will critically reflect upon the ideas underlying your work and this builds on your interdisciplinary knowledge gained in ‘Research for Practitioners.’ Component 1 This module gives you the opportunity to produce a significant piece of work which can be self-initiated either individually or as a team, or can be developed in collaboration with a creative or industrial partner.
This work may include but is not limited to the production of a live or virtual immersive performance, a live or virtual audio-visual performance, an immersive installation, a VR experience, a immersive game, or a screen-based work which incorporates immersive data.
This significant piece of work will demonstrate an original and critical engagement with both the technologies and ideas within the fields of Digital and Immersive Arts and will directly support your future opportunities in this dynamic emerging field.
The project in terms of scope, design and proposed production methodology will be subject to consultation and approval with the project supervisor and module tutor.
The project will be shown in a final degree show, to which potential employers will be invited.
Component 2 The second aspect of this module is a significant piece of reflective writing which demonstrates firstly, a thorough understanding of the relevant histories and theories which underpin the practical work in Component 1 and secondly demonstrates a critical reflexivity in your practice as you articulate the underlying motivations and processes employed in the realization of the project.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-digital-design-extended-degree-newcastle-uusxid1:
Z045
Digital Design is designed to address the challenges of designing for new and emerging digital technologies, and to prepare you for a career within the creative Digital Industries.
The course will provide you with a strong foundation in industry-standard design tools and practices for developing engaging digital experiences and products across a range of platforms and devices (e.g.
web, app, smart devices).
You will experience a range of digital design methods and processes: Visual Communication, Interface Design (UI) User Experience (UX) Data Visualisation, to AI-led Design and Design for Virtual or Mixed Reality.
Studio-based practical activities will foster your development towards a final portfolio of work.
Live briefs will be used to enhance your experience, ensure you have a connection to creative industries, and ready you for your future career.
Other courses you may be interested in: Graphic Design BA (Hons) .
It includes a foundation year which year helps develop your skills, build confidence, and foster your creativity.
The extended degree gives you the chance to explore a range of design disciplines linked to the creative design sector.
You will develop your knowledge of a broad range of creative design disciplines and equip you with the subject knowledge and essential skills that will be required for your entry into this degree.
You will have an opportunity to learn contemporary portfolio skills, work on short projects rotating through the 4 different design specialisms of communication design, product design, fashion design and interior design to explore these subject’s areas in more detail.
As a Digital Design student, you will use creative design briefs and real-world collaborations to explore the principles and practice of designing human-centred digital products, interfaces, objects or environments.
Led by subjects experts, the course combines human-centred and critical research methods with visual and interaction design principles to allow you to explore and speculate with new and emerging technologies, and prototype outcomes.
A shared module in each year will allow you to expand your field of study in collaboration with students from across different design disciplines.
In your first year you will develop your knowledge of a broad range of creative design disciplines and equip you with the subject knowledge and essential skills that will be required for your entry into this degree.
The first year will provide you with foundational skills for the rest of the course.
It will introduce you to the key principles and concepts of digital design practice including:  the principles of visual communication, and user-interface design (UI) ; interaction design and design for screens;  and user-experience design (UX), including methods for developing human-centred design outcomes.
You will also be introduced to core principles of coding for building interactive prototypes and be able to investigate an area of specialism of your choosing.
During your second year you will build upon the principles and practice established in year one, and explore more advanced areas of Digital Design practice and theory.
This includes: advanced motion and sound design for time-based visual communication; data visualisation methods and practice, and advanced methods unto User Experience design research and practice.
This year will also give you the chance to explore the potential applications for new and emerging technologies (e.g.
Mixed Reality, AI-informed design and IoT Design).
Your third year gives you the opportunity of live industry experiences or studying abroad.
This can be through national and international live or simulated industry projects, placements, and opportunities to explore entrepreneurship, fostering your potential, adaptability, and competitive advantage in the job market.
You will document your year and share your experiences with staff and peers.
Your final year gives you an opportunity to develop professional experience, investigate a specific field  of study and develop your final design portfolio tailored towards your career goal.
Supported by expert tutors and professionals you will engage in a combination of live collaborative projects set by external clients, and an extended piece of self-directed research and practice into your own specialist field of Digital Design practice, refining your design and professional practice skills.
DE4022 -
Interchange 1 – Experimental Processes (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will delve into experimental design processes that are directly applicable to your future role in the ever-changing field of design.
The boundaries between established design disciplines are continually shifting due to the ongoing collaborative nature of design projects calling on multiple skill sets, technological advancements, evolving design trends and societal needs.
The main objective is to provide you with the opportunity to explore making practice through different media, by acquire new skills or gaining experience in areas that are unfamiliar to you.
For example, different briefs might explore 3D printing, upcycling, narrative storytelling and illustration or coding for designers.
You will be encouraged to experiment and will be rewarded for taking creative risks.
Throughout this process, you will develop into a more competent and self-assured designer, essential for a professional design career.
XD4007 -
Visual Design Principles (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn and apply the principles of visual design relevant for Digital Design students.
These include principles of typography, semiotics, design styles and movements, grid systems, photo composition and manipulation, communication theory, colour theory and information design across different formats, sizes and scales.You will be given the opportunity to put these skills into practice through a design brief.
XD4008 -
Design for Screen: Web Design (Core,20 Credits)
This module will give you a comprehensive introduction to the fundamental concepts, principles, processes, and practices of screen design, with a focus on websites and mobile applications.
The module aims to equip students with the skills and knowledge needed to create user-friendly, aesthetically pleasing, and functional designs.
Emphasis will be placed on understanding user interface (UI) and user experience (UX) design.
In the process you will learn about adaptive and responsive design principles, user interface and user experience patterns, and the use of design software and tools to create and visualise working prototypes.
In the process of learning about screen design and creating prototypes, you will be introduced to design research and development process than underpins digital design practice.
This process will include a complimentary range of user, market, technology, and visual research methods as well as concept generation and development processes such as wireframing.
This design research and development process will be formerly documented in a design process book and will form part of your portfolio submission alongside final prototypes and other design deliverable or artefacts.
XD4009 -
UX Design Principles and Practice (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn the fundamental principles and techniques involved in designing effective user experiences (UX).
UX is a key component to many design disciplines such as Interaction Design, Experiential Design, Service Design and Information Architecture.
This module will support you to develop the skills and knowledge to practise and embed a human-centred design approach to designing user experiences of digital interactions.
It will give you an important grounding in applied methods and practice which will foster an approach to design which is centred around understanding and analysis of user needs, expectations and requirements.
This will provide you with a skill set which is transferable to many industries and employment sectors beyond design including technology, healthcare, finance, education, and e-commerce).
You will learn to apply research-informed process to understand users’ behaviours, motivations, needs and aspirations.
This will enable you to develop research-informed ideas to meet user needs.
You will be introduced to methods and techniques used through the design process that helps you identify user needs and translate them into effective and enjoyable user experience.
They include user research, personas, user journeys, storyboards, prototyping, interaction mock-ups and testing.
XD4010 -
Code.
Design.
Make (Core,20 Credits)
This module introduces basic coding principles for creative practice, focusing on developing interactive environments and artifacts.
It covers fundamental concepts and principles of coding for digital making, utilizing environments like P5Js, Processing, Arduino, and AI assistants.
You'll learn data input/output, dynamic data application, and user input for web-based visuals and graphics.
Additionally, it includes coding for physical interaction using sensors and input devices.
The module recognizes the increasing impact of AI on creative programming, emphasizing AI's role in boosting productivity.
It explores how AI tools aid in code writing, facilitating faster development and idea iteration.
You'll learn to utilize AI to unlock visual creative potential and apply it to design practice.
By grasping coding principles, you'll gain confidence in designing interactive environments for screen-based or physical interactions and prototype novel interactions, graphics, and experiences.
Creative coding within experimental design allows for unique interactive and immersive experiences, such as dynamic branding and interactive typography.
Understanding coding principles enables leveraging AI environments for developing dynamic artifacts and outcomes.
This module encourages exploration of creative production methods, pushing traditional digital creative processes to create engaging immersive experiences.
Within the context of experimental design, creative coding provides an important environment for exploring creative methods of production – pushing  traditional digital creative processes in order to develop unique interactive and engaging immersive experiences (e.g.
dynamic branding, interactive typography or immersive experiences)  Having an understanding of the principles of coding can  help leverage the potential of AI environments to support the development the creative of new dynamic artefacts and outcomes.
XD4011 -
Personal Research Project 1 (Core,20 Credits)
This module will give you the opportunity to reflect upon and consolidate what you have learned so far on the programme in order to develop your own identity as a designer by developing a small research-centred project which explores an area or personal interest within the sphere of Digital Design.
You will explore areas of interest related to digital design and reflect on the learning and areas of design that you have encountered so far during the first year of the programme.
This module will enable you to learn to situate yourself and your own emerging design practice in the context of digital design landscape through self-initiated projects and creative briefs You will be supported during this module to begin to design, run, and evaluate a research investigation through a process of design and making.
You will learn to work with and alongside your peers in a studio environment, both giving and receiving feedback from group and individual design critiques.
YB5001 -
Academic Language Skills for Design (Core – for International and EU students only,0 Credits)
DE5021 -
Interchange 2 – Emerging Issues and Practices (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will explore some of the most important emerging design issues and practices that are shaping contemporary design and design research.
As designers, we are in a perpetual state of evolution, responding to a world that is constantly in flux, where new challenges and opportunities arise on an almost daily basis.
This module occurs at a critical and timely stage in your design education, where you will delve into the heart of design's developing practice opportunities or most compelling dilemmas.
You will learn to identify, analyse, and propose innovative opportunities to these dynamic and often complex situations.
You will also learn to react to these challenges by working with others, leveraging your collective skills and knowledge to develop more nuanced design outcomes.
Emerging issues and practices may include a diverse range of topics, from sustainability, responsibility, inclusivity and diversity to technology and innovation, which may in turn have implications for cross-cultural design and global design trends.
XD5007 -
Sound and Motion Principles (Core,20 Credits)
The module encourages you to employ experimental and imaginative approaches to concept, process and final realisation of audio-visual and motion-based projects – skills essential to the creation of digital design and to the creative industries in general.
The module also provides you with a greater awareness of the creative context in which to locate your design practice , as well as the time-based media skills that will allow you to work across different mediums in an experimental manner.
You will learn to produce work across multiple platforms and formats, including but not limited to sound, video, narrative, music, and motion.
You will further develop the ability to successfully meld the concepts and forms of audio, motion and video technology, and you will apply these technological and creative skills in a narrative-driven context.
You will be introduced to a range of cutting-edge audio-visual technologies which are used extensively in the digital design and creative industries.
You will be introduced to basic sound editing software, as well as more complex sound design and music applications.
You will also be exposed to motion graphics, video editing and projection mapping.
You will learn how to integrate all of these technologies to produce a time-based media project.
XD5008 -
Data Visualisation (Core,20 Credits)
The module will introduce you to the methods, tools and procedures to enable you understand and apply theories and practices for creative data visualisation practices.
Moving beyond the traditional sphere of pie-charts and bar graphs, the module will present concepts and ideas for the visual or interactive representation which span a range of graphical, physical or interactive experiences and challenge you to develop a practice in which uses data as a source, starting point for creative exploration and visual interpretation.
During this module, you will learn how to apply theory and collect data from a variety of sources and formats - from digital data sets to localised, analogue, data collection activities.
You will also be introduced to creative visual methods and tools for representing data in a variety of visual and interactive formats: e.g.
data drawings, information graphics, interactive experiences or physical and environmental representations.
The module will enable you to gain confidence with key concepts and tools for collecting, handling, and visualising data to generate data-informed prototypes and artefacts, which explore new ways to inform and engage audiences, present information, tell data stories or to provide new perspectives on familiar subjects.
XD5009 -
UX Research and Design Methods (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will build on your knowledge and skills developed in the level 4 UX Design Principles module, by learning user and context research methods that are integral for ensuring good user experiences when designing for digital interactions and products.
It will support you in developing the skills and knowledge needed to conduct research that embeds human-centred design in your practice.
You will learn advanced, creative and participatory research methods to not only desirable understand potential users and the contexts in which they are to use your digital designs but also to creatively experiment and investigate their use outside of the studio.
This will enable you learn and develop best practices for user-centred research, skills which a transferable across a range of industries and employment sectors beyond design.
You will be introduced to methods and techniques for prototype evaluation and piloting.
For example techniques such as interviews, questionnaires, focus groups, heuristic evaluations, ‘Wizard of Oz-ing’,  role-playing, think-aloud, contextual observation (ethnography) service design and co-design workshops.
XD5010 -
Emerging Technologies (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will explore the impact of new and emerging digital technology on society, delving into how it shapes and forecasts the evolution of design.
The course will introduce a range of  topics which may include:   virtual reality (VR), augmented reality (AR), artificial intelligence (AI) in design, blockchain, internet of things (IoT), Tangible Technologies, and 3D printing technologies.
The module will encourage you to critically engage with technological advancements and to challenge existing paradigms through the development and prototyping speculative outcomes and design fictions.
Contextual theories and research methods will be used to explore the paradigms of new and emerging technological trends and futures, and provide the foundation for speculative design practice through the creation of design prototypes.
Practical work in this context may include:  the creation of design proposals,  fictions or speculative design narratives that explore current trends and offer speculation(s) on future trajectories.
The culmination of this module will  be the creation of a comprehensive research report and a corresponding speculative design artifact / prototype.
XD5011 -
Personal Research Project 2 (Core,20 Credits)
This module will build upon the previous modules of your second year of study, through a research based exploration of a complex social issue: either suggested from your tutor or for from a live or competition brief (e.g.
RSA, Creative Conscience Awards)  You will propose and run a  research-though-design project to explore the social challenge and to inform  and reflect upon your own emerging identity and a digital designer.
You will use a combination of collaborative activities and self-initiated independent study to explore an issue through a research-led approach to design practice.
You will use practical visual, digital, and material design methods and approaches to develop an in-depth study of the issue or topic and will use this as a springboard to developing and establishing your own reflective digital design practice.
DE5022 -
Creative Studio 1 (Optional,60 Credits)
Creative Studio 1 is a blended learning module where you will have the opportunity to collaborate and work on one or more live or simulated industry related briefs, international competitions or speculative design scenarios.
The module is characterised by an intensive period of collaboration followed by a shorter period of independent reflection and portfolio building.
The different project briefs will be managed by academic staff and will run either independently or collaboratively through teamwork.
The projects will be varied and will provide you with the opportunity to hone your specialist skills, professional, enterprise and entrepreneurial capabilities through real-life scenarios – providing an authentic learning experience.
You will be encouraged to develop a flexible and imaginative enquiry-based approach to the design projects.
You will become an active participant, integrating your design practice with distinguishable practical and intellectual skills whilst recording your process for summative assessment.
At the end of the module, you will be given time to reflect, complete and relate this work to your own professional portfolio allowing an opportunity for independent and autonomous study.
This module supports the development of industry specific skills and techniques.
It enables you to understand what it means to be a design practitioner build professional ambition, how to work autonomously and how to prepare for future employment.
It is anticipated that all projects will run successfully in a blended delivery mode to allow you to work on campus or at distance as and when required.
Note, international students will be expected to meet in person with their tutors at least once per month to order to fulfil their visa requirements.
DE5023 -
Creative Studio 2 (Optional,60 Credits)
Creative Studio 2 is a blended learning module where you will have the opportunity to collaborate and work on one or more live or simulated industry related briefs, international competitions or speculative design scenarios.
The module is characterised by an intensive period of collaboration and a shorter period of independent reflection and portfolio building.
Dependent on the start date of your live or simulated design briefs, you will be given independent time at the beginning or end of the module develop your professional portfolio and complete your assessment tasks.
DE5024 -
Design Placement 1 (Optional,60 Credits)
In this module you will have the opportunity to complete either one or several placements working in the creative industries, which will enable you to explore possibilities for your future career within the sector.
With the support of your Academic Tutors and the placement support staff you will be encouraged to source, apply and confirm your chosen placement(s).
This will help you to develop a network and become confident in applying for opportunities within creative industries.
A single placement or series of placements can run continuously or sporadically throughout the placement period as long as a minimum of 15 weeks or 600 hours of design-related placement work and study is achieved.
A placement can also seamlessly transfer into the Placement 2 module.
This flexible opportunity offers you a potentially broad insight into how the design industry operates in differing market and innovation sectors.
Being part of a design agency or in-house team means a greater understanding of design processes, market and product development cycles.
Through this work experience, you potentially gain exposure to design related professions such as brand strategy, marketing, social media content creation, manufacturing processes, as well as developing your own visual and general communication skills.
Furthermore, the experience of applying your academic studies in a real work environment gives context and will help you to develop a confident and professional attitude and it will encourage you to become career ready, actively making informed decisions about your future.
To consolidate this aim, you will be encouraged to maintain a digital diary of your learning, and professional experience, documenting the new skills and knowledge you acquire during your placement semester encouraging deep thinking, questioning and you will be asked to critically reflect and contextualise this learning in relation to your own professional practice.
Note, if you intend to continue with ‘Design Placement 2’ in semester 2 but are unable to complete or secure an industrial work placement in advance of the module starting you will have the opportunity to switch to the 'Creative Studio 2' elective which connects to industry live design briefs, competitions and speculative design scenarios that thrive on mirroring real-world design.
However, please also remember that the Creative Studio modules are full-time taught modules and therefore attract full tuition fees.
DE5025 -
Design Placement 2 (Optional,60 Credits)
To consolidate this aim, you will be encouraged to maintain a digital diary of your learning, and professional experience, documenting the new skills and knowledge you acquire during your placement  encouraging deep thinking, questioning and you will be asked to critically reflect and contextualise this learning in relation to your own professional practice.
Note, if you intend to continue with ‘Design Placement 2’ in semester 2 but are unable to complete or secure an industrial work placement in advance of the module starting you will be encouraged to switch to the 'Creative Studio' elective which connects to industry live design briefs, competitions and speculative design scenarios that thrive on mirroring real-world design.
DE5026 -
Design Study Abroad 1 (Optional,60 Credits)
This module will give you the opportunity to undertake a semester abroad studying at a partner university completing the equivalent to 60 UK credits.
With the support of the Study Abroad team you will be encouraged to source, apply and confirm the course of study abroad.
This opportunity will allow you to network and become confident in applying for opportunities within partner institutions.
Your module credits, performance and attendance will be recorded by the host University via your learning agreement.
Learning outcomes on any year-long modules on which you are unable to attend via the home institution must be met at the host institution, and marks from the host are incorporated into the modules as part of the overall assessment.
You will be encouraged to maintain a digital diary of your learning, documenting the new skills and knowledge you acquire during your study abroad period encouraging deep thinking, questioning and you will be asked to critically reflect and contextualise this learning in relation to your own professional practice.
DE5027 -
Design Study Abroad 2 (Optional,60 Credits)
DE6021 -
Interchange 3 – Contemporary Challenges and Design Futures (Core,20 Credits)
On this module, you will undertake a brief that will either tackle current challenges to designers or explore design’s role in near-future visions of society.
The module will challenge, inspire, and propel you into the future as a visionary designer or ‘change maker’ equipped to address some of the pressing issues of our time.
Design challenges and our responses are increasingly complex.
Technology has automated many of the simplest design tasks, leaving designers to focus on solving more complex problems.
To help tackle them, most designers work in multi-disciplinary teams.
Even more individual design specialists such as designer-makers work co-operatively with other craft specialists, manufacturers and business professionals to bring their work to market.
Therefore, this module led by design tutors and other subject specialists enables you to work with peers and collaborators to address contemporary challenges or future opportunities.
The choice of briefs may be developed in partnership with professional design teams, set by design competitions or written by your tutors in response to important design research or practice challenges.
XD6006 -
Design and Innovation (Core,20 Credits)
This module is centred around a design collaboration with an external partner (who will act as the ‘client’).
The collaborating partner will set a design challenge centred around an specific issue or innovation which reflects a real-world challenge that they face.
The brief therefore could be to proposal for a design innovation that the collaborator is considering or it could be to offer design solutions for a live project.
In the process you will gain greater experience of collaborative working through playing a key role in a team, working co-operatively with others and /or  co-designing a solution with end users.
As result, you will be able to master innovative design thinking methodologies in a real-world design context.
XD6007 -
Research Project & Prototype (Core,40 Credits)
Building upon the foundations of the learning from the first two years of study, this module provides  you with the opportunity to self-generate a brief or challenge based around a chosen area of specialisation or theme from across Digital Design and pursue an area of enquiry which may be further expanded on in the in the Final Project module.
You will use design methods and processes (learnt in the previous years)  to investigate a chosen theme (to be agreed with the tutors) and from its findings generate a piece of research and a design prototype which addresses your theme: e.g.
could potentially enhance and /or extend the boundaries of a technology The module gives you an opportunity to hone your prior learning, synthesize your skills to create human-centered and / or planet-centred proposals, which not only develop deeper understanding of an area specialization, from across Digital Design , but help you refine your own identity as a Digital Designer.
The outcomes of your investigation into your chosen theme will be communicated  via the delivery of a written submission and a mock-up prototype or design artefact.
Your written research will be delivered either an Extended Design Document (Pictorial) OR to  a Dissertation on an area related to your topic.
A mock-up prototype or design artefact will be a visual, tangible manifestation of your potential solution, direction or outcome in response to your topic.
These may form the foundation for further development during your final project module (although this is optional) which would give an extended amount of time to refine, develop and enhance the direction you have established during this phase of work.
XD6008 -
Final Major Project & Exhibition (Core,40 Credits)
This module provides an opportunity for you to address a design issue or theme of your own choice or initiation by research, developing and creating a design artefact or prototype.
Our ambition for you and your work is to potentially enhance the existing discipline of digital design and extend the boundaries of currently available digital interaction services, products or experiences.
There are a number of approaches to fulfilling this ambition; these may include, for example developing a novel interaction design which addresses a social or problem or redesigning and improving an existing user experience or interaction, or proposing a critical interaction design for debate.
You can use this module to continue in-depth exploration of the theme that you developed in the Research and Prototype (6002) module, or you can use this module to begin a new area of investigation.
You will be expected to produce a design document that encapsulates the key research findings, iterative design development, testing and personal reflection that have led to the creation of your final design artefact/prototype.
The creation of the design artefact/prototype and supporting design document, underpin the central aims of this module to demonstrate the intellectual achievements, skills and creative techniques, appropriate to the holistic development of a designer.
Assessment will be by portfolio submission of a design document, the demonstration and presentation of a design artefact/working prototype, and supporting design material.
Art & Design at Northumbria is ranked top 15 in the UK (Times Good University Guide, 2025).
Design at Northumbria is ranked 4th in the UK (Daily Mail University Guide, 2025).
Digital Design is a vital growth area of Design Production and Research.
The key elements of Digital Design, such as User Experience Design, Co-design, Experiential Design, and AI-enhanced production are among the crucial growth employment sectors in the UK.
New digital technologies are societally transformative and will be key for the future of life and work in the UK and internationally.
A BA Digital Design graduate would have potentially a number of possible career pathways from the programme for example:
These opportunities extend over a number of both public and private-sector industries:
There is also further innovation and research, for example:
Carine Chang
UX / UI Product Designer
Danny Owen
Digital Product Designer
James Phillips
Digital Designer
As a Digital Design student, you will work individually and collaboratively to explore and design creatively and critically.
Engaging with live briefs and collaborators, you will develop the practical and creative skills necessary to prepare you for a career within the expanding digital design industries.
You will have the chance to develop a broad range of skills related to the digital interfaces, including video, audio, web, animation, virtual reality.
All the while, you will be encouraged to consider how digital design can create solutions to real world challenges.
For example, previous students have addressed topics such as mental health, education, and the environment.
Sam Trueman
Wave: Visualising wellness at work.
Visi Dikari
MicroTrip: Drone-based food delivery.
Crossing Borders: AR app exploring mental illness.
Andy Caine
Customisation Studio: Physical interface for custom trainers.
Mealbot
By sharing their design expertise, they will help you shape your own design future through the programme.
Dr Steve Gibson
As a BA Digital Design student, you will have shared use of a dedicated design studio.
The design studio includes state-of-the art computers and industry standard software.
You will also have access to a range of workshops including the photography studio, virtual reality suite and prototyping lab.
If you have not used specialist equipment and workshops before, you will have the opportunity to be inducted by our expert technical staff.
You will also have free access to online tutorials to familiarise yourself with new software.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-digital-design-uusdid1:
W200
A portfolio of creative design work is required.
Get advice on preparing your portfolio here: www.northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/coming-to-northumbria/portfolios-and-auditions
During your time on the programme you will incur additional costs for design materials research trips.
These are optional not mandatory.
Subsidised optional day study trips  may incur minimal personal costs e.g.
meals, entry to museums (approx..
£10), etc.
There may also be optional student-funded national or international study visits, which vary in cost according to destination.
Whilst we provide access to computers and software, we would recommend that students have their own laptops – we would suggest getting the best spec you can.
Software programmes: Adobe Creative Cloud is provided by the University throughout the programme.
It is recommended that you purchase a portable hard drive(s) to back up your digital work (approx.
£10).

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/digital-marketing-with-advanced-practice-london-campus-dtsdgq6:
Whether you are a business student looking to build your knowledge and specialise in the digital domain or looking to join the marketing world, this MSc Digital Marketing programme has been designed to accelerate your career potential in a rapidly developing sector.
Our marketing subject area has established working relationships with key bodies such as the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) and the Institute of Direct and Digital Marketing (IDM) allowing the course content to be reflective of their syllabus.
This is particularly of value if you are intending to progress on to a professional qualification with either body upon successful completion of your Masters.
The MSc Digital Marketing programme demonstrates how new digitally-focused tactics and strategies integrate with more traditional marketing tools and practices to capture new customers, build customer loyalty and provide superior customer service.
You will understand the value of, and methods for, determining return on investment of Internet marketing programs, as well as online visitor and buyer behaviour, customer journey mapping, mobile marketing and social media.
You will also have the opportunity to develop a wider understanding of the principles and practice of leading and managing organisations and develop a range of applied research skills.
Graduates will be well suited to join a wide range of businesses, including graduate training schemes or even start up their own businesses or begin a professional qualification with one of the marketing industry bodies.
You can also gain access to the Northumbria University Graduate Enterprise scheme where we can help you with advice and skills to enable you to set up your own business.
The Advanced Practice version of this course offers you a valuable opportunity to secure a work placement or complete a group consultancy project, giving you an experience of the workplace environment or live business issues, and an excellent way to put your learning into practice.
This stage of the programme will take place between your second and final semester, and is a semester-long (12-15 weeks) in duration.
The alternative consultancy module allows you to work in teams with a business organisation working on consultancy-based projects on real business scenarios.
From your Programme Leader, Dr Lillian Clark
Digital Marketing reading:
All applications will be considered on an individual basis.
Strategic Marketing in the Digital Era In this module, you will learn to appreciate the role of a strategic manager of a modern-day manufacturing and sales business in the context of an increasingly digitalised consumer environment.
You will be introduced to Marketing at a strategic level of a business, and understand how marketing decisions are made in the context of other essential business functions; i.e.
financial planning, operations and supply chain management, and human resource management.
In addition, you will learn to appreciate the digital nature of modern-day business operations and marketing strategy.
The module will cover the following themes: Marketing planning and implementation Competitive market strategies Product development Routes to market and multichannel marketing Operations and supply chain management Financial planning for operations and growth Managing employees for competitive advantage Introduction to promotional strategy Introduction to digital and social media marketing Marketing-related legislation Developing Leadership Capability for Professional Practice This module engages you in personal and professional development in order that you develop and hone your team working, management and leadership skills, capabilities and attributes, and in so doing, enhance your employability.
In this module, you will not only prepare for your first job after you graduate but also kick-start your commitment to life-long personal and professional learning.
The second part of the module contains activities that enable you to build on your self-analysis and explore further your strengths, weaknesses and areas for development in the context of your career development plans.
Research Methods and Analytics for Business Practice This module will provide you with essential knowledge and analytics skills needed for you to complete a high-quality Masters’ Dissertation.
By undertaking and reflecting on practical research-based activities you will understand the process of designing and carrying out a research study.
You will also engage in activities that involve an understanding of data and analysis of data.
This will place you in a strong position to undertake your own Masters’ level research.
At the end of the module, you will write a research proposal, this will be assessed and will contribute to your final mark.
In the dissertation you will work under the supervision of a member of the academic staff and your proposal will also help to ensure you get the most from this relationship.
The Digital Customer Journey: Data, Profiling and CRM This module is designed to provide you with an introduction to how consumers behave in the digital domain and the opportunities this presents for organisations targeting them.
At the heart of this is the concept of consumer behaviour, which has been revolutionised by emerging technologies, offering new opportunities for communication with companies and fellow consumers.
This will be complemented by an in-depth review of how consumers can be profiled based on their lifestyle characteristics, and an acknowledgement of the role of database marketing in collating, updating and using data to deliver personalised communications messages.
Throughout the module you will cover the following themes: Consumer Decision Making Journey Mapping Customer Profiling Database Marketing Customer Relationship Marketing Digital Campaign Management and Media This module is designed to equip you with an overview of managing a digital marketing campaign alongside opportunities to utilise a range of digital media.
At heart of the module is digital campaign management, which is continually evolving due to consumers’ digital media usage, offering interactive opportunities for businesses to communicate.
You will explore this in the module by completing a group-based live marketing project which is a part of the Institute of Direct Marketing (IDM) National Student Competition, covering digital campaign management, developing content for digital platforms, the user experience through the digital area, the role of social media marketing, deploying email marketing, and affiliated marketing’s role in a digital campaign.
Throughout this module you will cover the following themes: Campaign Management Content Management User Experience Social Media Marketing Mobile Marketing Email Marketing Affiliated Measurement Marketing Metrics and Analysis In this module, you will explore the important role of the website in an organisation’s digital marketing strategy.
You will learn the principles of website evaluation and will use analytic tools for the analysis of web data to help measure the effectiveness of web marketing and improve the user experience.
Academic Language Skills for Post-Graduate Business Students (0 credits) The aim of this module is to support your study, language and communication skills for academic purposes in the study in your chosen discipline at postgraduate level.
The module is designed to enable you to become an advanced independent learner.
It is supported by a teaching and learning plan which outlines the formal sessions.
Interactive workshops will be tailored to address some of the specific issues that you meet within your discipline.
You may also be asked to complete some preparation tasks for some seminars but these will be kept to minimum.
You will be expected to identify those skills which you need within your postgraduate programme, and to develop these independently through a range of learning activities that might include extended reading, and reflection.
The Newcastle Business School Masters Dissertation (60 credits) You will design a research project, assessed through a proposal and will then work under supervision of a member of academic staff to use and extend the knowledge and skills that they have acquired during your programme of study to complete a dissertation.
You will use appropriate research methodologies and data collection methods to critically synthesise a body of knowledge relevant to the taught programme.
On successful completion of this module, you will be able to conduct research and organise the findings into a comprehensive and explicit structure that is critically assessed and is linked to the conclusions drawn.
You will demonstrate this ability by identifying an appropriate research topic, critically selecting and applying an appropriate research methodology and data collection method(s) to your chosen research topic, demonstrating a rigorous understanding of the theory and literature relevant to the issues under investigation, and showing how these link to the research method(s).
You will also critically reflect on how their research contributes to the understanding of the topic area.
In this module, you will learn to appreciate the role of a strategic manager of a modern-day manufacturing and sales business in the context of an increasingly digitalised consumer environment.
The module will cover the following themes:
Developing Leadership Capability for Professional Practice This module engages you in personal and professional development in order that you develop and hone your team working, management and leadership skills, capabilities and attributes, and in so doing, enhance your employability.
This module engages you in personal and professional development in order that you develop and hone your team working, management and leadership skills, capabilities and attributes, and in so doing, enhance your employability.
This module will provide you with essential knowledge and analytics skills needed for you to complete a high-quality Masters’ Dissertation.
This module is designed to provide you with an introduction to how consumers behave in the digital domain and the opportunities this presents for organisations targeting them.
Throughout the module you will cover the following themes:
Digital Campaign Management and Media This module is designed to equip you with an overview of managing a digital marketing campaign alongside opportunities to utilise a range of digital media.
This module is designed to equip you with an overview of managing a digital marketing campaign alongside opportunities to utilise a range of digital media.
Throughout this module you will cover the following themes:
Marketing Metrics and Analysis In this module, you will explore the important role of the website in an organisation’s digital marketing strategy.
In this module, you will explore the important role of the website in an organisation’s digital marketing strategy.
The aim of this module is to support your study, language and communication skills for academic purposes in the study in your chosen discipline at postgraduate level.
You will design a research project, assessed through a proposal and will then work under supervision of a member of academic staff to use and extend the knowledge and skills that they have acquired during your programme of study to complete a dissertation.
Scholarships and bursaries for international students Depending on the country you are from, you may be eligible for a country bursary and/or scholarship when studying the MSc Digital Marketing programme.
Depending on the country you are from, you may be eligible for a country bursary and/or scholarship when studying the MSc Digital Marketing programme.
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study the 1 year MSc Digital Marketing programme.
As well as the 1 year MSc modules you will have the chance to study one of the following:
Internship (60 credits) Students completing the Advanced Practice Masters programme can choose to complete a 12-15 week internship, worth 60 credits.
This internship can be sourced by the student or by the university.
It may be paid or unpaid (most internships are unpaid).
Students will be supported in the process of applying for an internship during their first year of study and equipped with the necessary internship application and selection skills, e.g.
CV writing, interview technique.
All internships will be approved by the university to ensure they are providing an appropriate learning experience and working environment.
Students will be allocated an internship tutor who will work with them throughout the internship period.
This will include visits and support in completing the internship assessment.
The module is assessed by a 4,000 word reflective portfolio which is focussed on your development from the perspective of gaining particular skills relating to employability and being employment prepared, engagement in further self-development from the perspective of employment potentially in a new or international context and further demonstration of cultural and ethical awareness through broader experience of working in a cultural diverse groups and teams via this employment opportunity.
The Newcastle Business School Masters Dissertation (60 credits) You will design a research project, assessed through a proposal and will then work under the supervision of a member of academic staff to use and extend the knowledge and skills that they have acquired during your programme of study to complete a dissertation.
Some students may choose to base their topic on their internship.
Students completing the Advanced Practice Masters programme can choose to complete a 12-15 week internship, worth 60 credits.
You will design a research project, assessed through a proposal and will then work under the supervision of a member of academic staff to use and extend the knowledge and skills that they have acquired during your programme of study to complete a dissertation.
Business Clinic PG Group Consultancy Project (60 credits) As a student enrolled on one of the Advanced Practice Programmes you may undertake a group consultancy project within the first semester of your second years of Masters’ study (the alternative is an Internship).
The syllabus will include: Conducting research in organisations Identifying researchable questions Consultancy and project management skills Research methods and doing a literature review Presentation, communication and report writing skills.
Analysing findings Writing recommendations and action plans Reflecting on work-based experiential learning Assessment will be both formative and summative and incorporate self, peer, and tutor evaluation.
You will present your work-based findings to the host organisation (oral presentation) and an interim report written on behalf of the host organisation or sponsoring project client.
In the follow-up module, Applied Management Work Investigation, you will provide a substantial management investigation report on the business-related issue emerging from this placement or consultancy, alongside a personal reflective statement.
Depending on what grade you achieve for the Consultancy Project, you will progress to one of the following modules: Applied Management Work Investigation (60 credits) This follows your group consultancy project during the first semester of your second year of Masters’ study.
In this module, you will take the skills you developed as a problem solver of a work-based project and develop a client-focused management report and presentation alongside an individual literature review and personal reflection.
The nature and scope of the area of your investigation will be defined and agreed upon in collaboration with the organisation you worked with on the group consultancy project and your University supervisor.
The syllabus will include: Conducting research in organisations.
Identifying researchable questions.
Consultancy and project management skills.
Research methods and doing a literature review Presentation, communication and report writing skills.
Analysing findings.
Writing recommendations and action plans.
Reflecting on work-based experiential learning.
In undertaking this project-based module, you will critically reflect and evaluate organisational practices and their relation with academic theory, and in doing so, provide practical and actionable recommendations through an investigative management report.
As a student enrolled on one of the Advanced Practice Programmes you may undertake a group consultancy project within the first semester of your second years of Masters’ study (the alternative is an Internship).
The syllabus will include:
Depending on what grade you achieve for the Consultancy Project, you will progress to one of the following modules:
Applied Management Work Investigation (60 credits) This follows your group consultancy project during the first semester of your second year of Masters’ study.
This follows your group consultancy project during the first semester of your second year of Masters’ study.
Scholarships and bursaries for international students Depending on the country you are from, you may be eligible for a country bursary and/or scholarship when studying the MSc Digital Marketing with Advanced Practice programme.
Depending on the country you are from, you may be eligible for a country bursary and/or scholarship when studying the MSc Digital Marketing with Advanced Practice programme.
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study the MSc Digital Marketing with Advanced Practice programme.
Minimum of a 2:2 honours degree or equivalent, or substantial experience of working in a business organisation

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/digital-marketing-msc-ft-dtfdgm6:
Delivered in collaboration with leading marketing
professionals, this CIM and IDM accredited Masters is relevant to those from any undergraduate
background who want to develop their knowledge of innovative digital marketing
strategies, and who want to gain a relevant and recognised qualification to achieve their career aspirations.
Why choose Northumbria to study Digital Marketing MSc?
The course will also cover themes such as location-based marketing, user experience, customer journey mapping and mobile marketing.
During your time on the MSc Digital Marketing, you will cover a range of practical digital marketing topics, which includes:
Regardless of the topic, you will be given a firm grasp of the subject, through a mix of lectures, seminars, and practical workshops that utilise real data.
Our Digital Marketing masters also addresses consumer behaviour and how profiling is used to understand lifestyle characteristics and how this helps deliver personalised, tailored communication.
This Digital Marketing Masters is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) and the Institute of Data & Marketing (IDM) , two of the world's leading professional bodies in the marketing field.
The accreditation's provide the chance to work towards professional marketing qualifications upon graduation through the CIM's IDM graduate gateway.
The Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) is the leading professional body for marketers worldwide and exists to develop the marketing profession, maintain professional standards and improve the skills of marketing practitioners.
Northumbria University has joined forces with CIM to give students the opportunity to gain professional qualifications through the CIM Graduate Gateway.
CIM qualifications are highly sought after by employers, and their content is reflected in our own degrees which ensures we are equipping students with the best opportunities for a successful marketing career
You will also have the chance to complete a Master’s consultancy project in place of a dissertation, and we will discuss that option with you towards the end of your first semester.
You’ll also have the option to extend your studies by moving over to one of Northumbria University's two-year postgraduate Digital Marketing courses if you choose to.
Alternatively you can complete our two-year Online Digital Marketing Masters Course or check out our Marketing MSc and Digital Business Courses
Find out more about why you should study Digital Marketing here .
Watch Programme Leader Craig Bradshaw talk about this Masters in a Minute (or so), and find out more about our business clinic.
Course lead Craig Bradshaw gives a brief summary of Digital Marketing MSc at Northumbria University.
Given the ever-changing nature of the digital marketing field, you will be encouraged to innovate and apply emerging technologies to solve business problems.
This course also includes a residential day for the leadership and
team-building event, which is in the first semester, which is aimed at strengthening skills in team
working, emotional and cultural intelligence, self-reflection, independent
learning and critical thinking.
The main assessment method will be via individual assignments and business reports where you’ll be expected to take a deep and critical approach and demonstrate your ability to think widely about the issues presented.
You’ll also be required to submit a 15,000 word, subject-specific dissertation where you’ll explore a digital theme in depth, applying research skills and methodologies that will be covered as part of your dissertation preparation.
You will have the option to undertake a Masters’ consultancy project as an alternative to the dissertation, which will be discussed during the course.
The members of staff who deliver this course are recognised thought leaders in digital marketing and include a writer of a leading text on direct and digital marketing, PhD qualified academics and respected marketing practitioners.
The team also has a great track record in preparing Northumbria students for the Institute of Direct and Digital Marketing (IDM) National Student Competition.
In the fast-paced and ever-changing world of digital marketing, openness to learning new ideas and interdisciplinary is key to your future success.
Therefore, we are pleased to offer you a diverse range of staff to learn from, who collectively have expertise in many marketing disciplines and important areas of digital marketing research to share.
Dr Craig Bradshaw
Dr David Hart
Gillian Forster
You’ll learn in exceptional facilities that feature everything you need to support your studies, from Harvard-style lecture theatres to a Starbucks coffee shop.
Newcastle Business School attracts students from around the world and this internationally diverse student population will help you expand your global marketing perspectives.
On certain modules, you’ll be taught in a workshop environment where IT will be at the heart of your learning experience and you’ll be encouraged to use technology including business simulations, Prezi and Google Analytics.
Each semester you’ll get the chance to share your views on individual modules, the learning environment and anything else you want to tell us about the course.
Key staff include Richard Gay, an experienced academic with a leading textbook in the digital marketing field and currently researching into multichannel marketing at doctorate level, and Kirk Dodds, a former marketing practitioner who’s currently researching into mobile marketing at doctorate level, included within this is a signature research area into the wider field of digital business.
Newcastle Business School is a vibrant and research-rich business school with a history of applied research and strong engagement with the local economy, public and voluntary sectors.
Your curriculum will feature a mix of research-oriented and research-led content and you’ll be supported to carry out your own research work.
You’ll also develop the skills to independently and collaboratively create new knowledge through independent research, particularly through your dissertation where you’ll learn about the process of knowledge construction.
This is a fast-growing sector and your specialist knowledge of the digital marketing arena will set you apart from your peers and give you a real edge when it comes to securing rapidly emerging job opportunities in this very competitive field.
Whatever you decide to do, you’ll have the transferable skills that employers expect from a master’s graduate from Northumbria University.
Newcastle Business School has an excellent track-record in Digital Marketing, with our students achieving national and international accolades.
You will soon be among the newest students to benefit from this experience and expertise at Newcastle Business School.
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree or equivalent, or substantial experience of working in a business organisation.
There are various advised books for purchase throughout the duration of this course, and the cost is approximately £250.
This course is certified by the Chartered Institute of Marketing, and students are eligible to complete the Certificate in Professional Marketing.
This is optional but could incur the following costs: CIM membership, £65: assessment £140.
This course is accredited by the Institute of Data & Marketing, and students are eligible to complete their Certificate in Digital Marketing (CertDM).
This is optional but could incur the following costs :- Examination fee of £100 plus VAT.
BM9706 -
Marketing Metrics and Analysis (Core,20 Credits)
The module will aim to give you: An Introduction to Web Marketing Website Evaluation – comprising Context of Use & Usability, Layout & Navigation, Home Page & Testing.
Application of web marketing including search engine optimisation, pay per click, conversion rate optimisation An introduction to Web Analytics, with particular reference to an industrial standard application (most likely Google analytics).
This will cover determining how the software application works, data collection, analysis and reporting.
Campaign Metrics and Measurement.
Multichannel Metrics.
Consolidation and/or assessment.
At the end of the module you may be in a position to take the Google Analytics Individual Qualification (GAIQ) test as part of your broader Continual Professional Development.
MK9700 -
Strategic Marketing in the Digital Era (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn to appreciate the role of a strategic manager of a modern day manufacturing and sales business in the context of an increasingly digitalised consumer-environment.
In addition, you will learn to appreciate the digital nature of modern day business operations and marketing strategy.
The module will cover the following themes: •	Marketing planning and implementation – Includes market research, identifying good business opportunities, 4Ps of marketing management, and the basics of creating and delivering value to customers.
•	Competitive market strategies – Covers different approaches to competing in a marketplace, how to be better than your competitors, developing sustainable competitive advantage.
•	Product development – basics of new product development.
•	Routes to market and multichannel marketing – Retailing and sales channel selection and management.
•	Operations and supply chain management – managing the distribution network, stock management, managing the production output.
•	Financial planning for operations and growth - Pricing decisions and cost management, basics of balance-sheets and profit & loss accounts, activity-based costing, investing in R&D projects.
•	Managing employees for competitive advantage – How employees can be the source of sustainable competitive advantage, employee development and empowerment to foster creativity and breakthrough ideas, rewards & recognition.
•	Introduction to promotional strategy – Introduction to marketing communications, and different promotional methods /tools.
•	Introduction to digital and social-media marketing – Covers the digital consumer-space, and how to engage customers and build brands online.
•	Marketing-related legislation – Deals with legal aspects of marketing, and basics of marketing ethics.
MK9701 -
The Digital Customer Journey: Data, Profiling and CRM (Core,20 Credits)
Throughout the module you will cover the following themes: • Consumer Decision Making: understanding how consumers choose between brand offerings, and specifically how their use of digital channels has changed their consumer behaviour.
This will link closely with multi-channel marketing strategy you will address in MK9700 (which is delivered concurrently).
• Journey Mapping: an appreciation of how consumers make decisions as they progress through their everyday lives, what influences these decisions and the critical company-consumer touch points.
• Customer Profiling: investigation of a range of criteria that can be used to segment and profile consumers, ranging from demographics to psychographic and geo-demographic data.
• Database Marketing: introduction to principles of database marketing, understanding the processes of data acquisition and data cleansing (linking with marketing legislation in MK9700 where appropriate).
• Customer Relationship Marketing: understanding how personal data can be used to forge customer relationships via permission marketing and personalisation.
This will also address important decisions such as key account management and demarketing.
MK9702 -
Digital Campaign Management and Media (Core,20 Credits)
Throughout this module you will cover the following themes: • Campaign Management: understanding the fundamentals of campaign management and specifically from a digital perspective and how evolving digital media can be utilised in a digital campaign.
This will link closely with digital marketing strategy addressed in MK9700 and customer journey addressed in MK9701 (which are delivered in semester one).
• Content Management:  an appreciation of delivering content through a variety of digital platforms including website, mobile, social media and email.
• User Experience: investigating what constitutes for a positive user experience through digital platforms, and how this will manifest itself on different platforms.
This will link closely with website design and usability addressed in linking with customer relationship marketing in MK9701 where appropriate.
• Social Media Marketing: explore social media campaigns and appreciate what influences successful campaigns and their implementation.
• Mobile Marketing:  investigate the growing importance mobile marketing plays within a digital campaign and its role within the customer journey.
This will link closely with customer journey addressed in MK9701 (which is delivered semester one).
• Email Marketing: investigate strategies for email marketing and its ability to forge customer relationships, due to its personalised nature and its target approach (linking with customer relationship marketing in MK9701 when appropriate).
• Affiliated: appreciation of the role of affiliation marketing and how it can be used as part of relationship with external suppliers to drive traffic through SEO, PPC, email marketing, display advertising (linking with SEO and PPC in BM9700 when appropriate).
• Measurement: understand methods of measuring campaigns in order to value and judge success, allowing for development within future campaigns (linking with metric in BM9706 when appropriate).

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-digital-marketing-distance-learning-dtddmk6:
This MSc in Digital Marketing is a comprehensive and expertly delivered online course, covering everything you need to know about digital marketing and its applications in today’s business world .
Whether your interest is in content management, customer profiling, social media and email marketing, or any other specialism, our accredited digital marketing Masters will give you an in-depth, rounded expertise on the industry.
Our double-accredited Digital Marketing MSc covers all aspects from research methods and the digital customer journey to marketing strategy, metrics and analytics.
Distance learning students can study online at their own pace and achieve a qualification that fits their career goals.
Accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) and Data & Marketing Association (DMA) , we've
collaborated with both professional bodies and incorporated
content from them to ensure our course is cutting-edge and relevant to today’s
digital marketing professionals.
You’ll learn from both practical and evidenced
based frameworks which have been developed based on key learnings and case
studies.
We’ve designed our Masters to be flexible.
You’ll be able to study whenever and wherever it suits you, while still accessing our teaching and learning facilities online.
You’ll also be able to choose when you start the course  ‒ in January, April, July or October ‒  and pay your fees in module-by-module instalments, spreading the cost over the duration of your studies.
You can also graduate with a PGCert after finishing three modules, or a PGDip after six modules.
These level 7 postgraduate qualifications can be used as a stepping stone to completing the full Digital Marketing MSc.
If you have a question about this course, visit our Frequently Asked Questions page or discover more about our online degrees.
Please note, we also
offer a full-time on campus Digital Marketing MSc and similar courses such as Digital Business MSc
Start Upcoming Intakes -  October 2025, January 2026, April 2026
Digital marketing is a forward-looking and expanding field.
The marketing executives and brand managers of the future will come from a variety of backgrounds, but they’ll need to know their business.
An online, accredited Digital Marketing course is perfect for anyone who wants to gain advanced knowledge of the area and give themselves a competitive career advantage.
Whether you have no digital marketing
experience and want to climb the ladder in the industry, or work in digital
marketing and are looking to take your career or consultancy forward, this
course may be right for you.
The recommended study time is 15 hours a week, so it is ideal for busy working professionals.
Our distance
learning model gives you the freedom to balance your studies alongside any
current commitments – without having to disrupt your personal life.
Choose to start at four entry points
throughout the academic year (January, April, July and October) and earn your
MSc in around two years to complete a
full Masters level qualification.
Plus, you can graduate with a PGCert after
the completion of three modules, or a PGDip after finishing six modules.
These
level 7 postgraduate qualifications can be used as a gateway to complete the
full Masters programme, earning a
Digital Marketing MSc.
The PGCert/PGDip provides a strong foundation of core
digital marketing skills to stand out to employers.
There are few online digital marketing courses in the UK which can offer an experience as good as their on-campus versions.
But if you’re taking a Masters degree in Digital Marketing a good online user experience and well-designed distance learning platform should be the bare minimum for delivering your study tools and resources.
We understand all our students are different and lead busy lives.
That’s why our focus is on self-paced, interactive learning that will allow you the freedom to study whenever and wherever it suits you.
Learn more about learning online at Northumbria, studying online versus on campus and our Student Success Team.
If you’re thinking of studying an online Digital Marketing Masters, you probably want to gain a real insight in the subject.
It’s therefore reasonable to expect that the teaching staff on the digital marketing course of your choice are industry experts with exceptional knowledge and experience.
On this course, you’ll be taught by key
figures and recognised names within the digital marketing industry.
Our course
sits within the Newcastle Business School - a faculty which has
distinguished itself with its outstanding research and history of delivering
quality digital business education.
Our academics have
backgrounds spanning across international marketing, as well as advertising
agency and ‘client side’ work.
Throughout the course, you will be supported
by dedicated academic tutors and staff, who are recognised thought leaders in
digital marketing and include a writer of a leading text on direct and digital
marketing, PhD qualified academics and respected marketing
practitioners.
Our department have longstanding partnerships
with the Data & Marketing Association (DMA) and Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) , and
our courses are designed around the pillars of these professional bodies
and their frameworks.
Plus, over the past four years, our on-campus Digital
Marketing MSc has produced two national winners of the DMA
National Student Competition.
Academic Interview - Dr David Hart
Meet The Tutors
Digital marketing is an ever-changing and growing area.
As soon as you think you’ve mastered the Google algorithm or a new social media platform, something new takes its place.
That’s why it’s essential that a Masters in Digital Marketing is taught by a faculty who are industry-aware and involved heavily in research, to keep track of the latest trends and updates.
Northumbria prides itself on its outstanding reputation for research work in the digital marketing industry.
Our Masters sits within Newcastle Business School , a research-rich school with
a strong history of applied research.
We were the first Business School in
Europe to secure double accreditation in both Business and Accounting from the
Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB International) – a
mark of excellence that puts us in an elite group of schools worldwide.
NBS also has relationships with 16
professional business associations and institutions, including the ACCA, CIM,
CIPD, CMI and more.
Social media executives, marketing consultants, communications managers, market researchers – today, all these jobs require a high level of digital marketing know-how to succeed.
Our Digital Marketing MSc is designed to equip you with the skills needed to thrive in the digital landscape and build your future.
Strong marketers are in demand in the top careers you can do with a Digital Marketing Masters .
72% of large companies and nearly half of SMEs feel that proven skills are missing from the workforce (Digital Skills for the UK Economy report, Department for Business Innovation & Skills).
In this fast moving and competitive industry, our course will develop your understanding of the core principles of digital marketing, enabling you to build a career in marketing or digital marketing management.
The Masters will empower you with the skills
needed to build a cutting-edge CV, become an ‘industry ready’ graduate and maximise your career
opportunities.
For example, on our Strategic Marketing in the Digital Era module, you’ll learn the relationship between marketing strategy and other essential business functions; such as financial planning, operations and supply chain management, and others.
Plus, on our Digital Customer Journey: Data, Profiling and CRM module, you’ll develop an in-depth understanding of customer behaviour and how to build profiles of customers based on data.
Our graduates can go onto several rewarding career paths in roles related to digital marketing, both agency and client side.
For example, our graduates can enter the following careers after completing the course:
Our Careers and Employment Service offers a range of resources and support, available online and on a one-to-one basis, for you to tap into.
Successful completion of this course could also lead you to a Postgraduate Research Degree such as an MPhil, PhD and Professional Doctorate.
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree in any subject, or substantial experience of working in a business organisation.
PE7052 -
The Digital Customer Journey: Data, Profiling and CRM (20 Credits)
This will be complemented by an in-depth review of how consumers can be profiled based on their lifestyle characteristics, and an acknowledgement of the role of database marketing in delivering personalised communications.
Throughout the module you will cover the following themes: Consumer Decision Making: understanding how consumers choose between brand offerings, and specifically how their use of digital channels has changed their consumer behaviour.
Journey Mapping: an appreciation of how consumers make decisions as they progress through their everyday lives, what influences these decisions and the critical company-consumer touch points.
Customer Profiling: investigation of a range of criteria that can be used to segment and profile consumers, ranging from demographics to psychographic and geo-demographic data.
Database Marketing: introduction to principles of database marketing, understanding the processes of data acquisition and data cleansing.
This will also incorporate an overview of core legislation such as GDPR.
Customer Relationship Marketing: understanding how personal data can be used to forge customer relationships via permission marketing and personalisation.
PE7053 -
Strategic Marketing in the Digital Era (20 Credits)
In this module you will learn to appreciate the role of a strategic manager of a modern-day manufacturing and sales business in the context of an increasingly digitalised consumer-environment.
You will be introduced to Marketing at a strategic level of a business, and also learn how marketing decisions are made in the context of other essential business functions; i.e.
You will learn to appreciate the digital nature of modern-day business operations and marketing strategy.
•	Operations Management, including distribution networks and stock management.
•	Financial Planning, including pricing decisions and cost management.
PE7054 -
Digital Campaign Management and Media (20 Credits)
In this module you will learn the critical marketing function of campaign management, understanding the various stages of customer analysis, objective setting, campaign design and metrics.
In addition, you will be introduced to a wide range of digital marketing communication tools that can be used by marketers, ranging from email marketing through to search engine optimisation and affiliate campaigns.
You will utilise this knowledge to develop a live campaign proposal.
The following topics will be covered in the module: •	Campaign Management: understanding the fundamentals of campaign management from a digital perspective.
•	Content Management: delivering content through a variety of digital platforms including website, mobile, social media and email.
•	User Experience: investigating what constitutes for a positive user experience, and how this will manifest itself on different platforms.
•	Social Media Marketing: explore social media campaigns and what influences successful campaigns and their implementation.
•	Mobile Marketing: investigate the growing importance mobile marketing plays within a digital campaign and its role within the customer journey.
•	Email Marketing: investigate strategies for email marketing and its ability to forge customer relationships.
•	Affiliated: appreciation of the role of affiliation marketing and how it can be used to drive traffic through SEO, PPC, email marketing, display advertising •	Measurement: understand methods of measuring campaigns in order to value and judge success, allowing for development within future campaigns Upon completing this module, you will be able to evidence development of a professional standard campaign and demonstrate knowledge of communication tools that are critical for modern marketers.
PE7055 -
Marketing Metrics and Analysis (20 Credits)
In this module, you will explore the important role of an organisation’s digital channels as part of their marketing strategy.
You will learn the principles of website/channel evaluation and will use analytic tools for the analysis of digital data to help measure the effectiveness of web marketing and improve the user experience.
The module will aim to give you: •	An introduction to web marketing •	Website evaluation – comprising context of use & usability, layout & navigation, home page & testing.
•	Application of web marketing including search engine optimisation, pay per click, conversion rate optimisation •	An introduction to web analytics, with particular reference to an industrial standard application (most likely google analytics).
•	Campaign metrics and measurement.
•	Multichannel metrics.
•	Consolidation and/or assessment.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/disaster-management-and-sustainable-development-with-advanced-practice-msc-ft-dtsdds6:
This course is equally relevant for those working in the field who wish to strengthen their academic and professional standing, as it is to those seeking to change direction and develop new knowledge and skills with new areas of expertise.
You will learn how to prepare for and respond to a crisis and develop the planning skills to help minimise impact and avert problems.
You will develop advanced knowledge, project management and analytical skills whilst exploring a specialism in an area of your choice.
Disaster management, disaster preparedness and disaster reduction is intertwined with sustainability of solutions responding to needs for humanitarian aid across the globe.
The Masters course is supported by the Disaster and Development Network (DDN) hosted by Northumbria University, which can lead to placements across the world.
Our highly employable graduates have moved into a range of exciting careers, including in the UN, governments, development, humanitarian aid organisations, charities and local authorities.
Mode of Study 2 years Full Time (with Advanced Practice in the second year) 1 other options available
Department Geography and Environmental Sciences
Guided through lectures, seminars and workshops by staff with vast experience in applying expertise to current world issues, you will develop the knowledge and practical skills needed to prepare for, take action within, and recover from a crisis.
You will also develop a specialism in an area such as health and wellbeing in disaster management, integrated emergency management, or exploring a specific thematic subject of your own choice.
The course culminates in a Masters dissertation which can take the form of a traditional research dissertation or a work related project.
Assessment is designed to provide an authentic learning experience, using techniques and approaches common in professional practice and subject-based academic research and consultancy.
We provide constructive ongoing and forward feedback to develop your understanding within and between modules.
Taught modules are regularly reviewed to ensure they deliver up-to-date material and new knowledge that has been generated across the diverse range of topics in the global Disaster Management and Sustainable Development arena.
With many modules directly relating to the research expertise of teaching staff, you will learn from lecturers who lead knowledge creation in their specialist fields.
Through collaborations with scholars, practitioners and senior policy makers across the world, our academics have connections with organisations such as the United Nations, the World Bank, national Emergency Management and Environment Agencies, as well as international and national charities and governments and agencies at various scales in a range of countries around the world.
Disaster Management and Sustainable Development Staff Profiles
Dr Francis Masse
Inge Boudewijn
Dr Katie Oven
VC Senior Fellow
Oliver Hensengerth
Peter Howson
Simon Griffiths
Andrew Collins
Professor in Disaster and Development
Richard Kotter
We also make use of technology in module delivery.
Modules take a ‘virtual field study’ approach where real-world examples are brought into the classroom via video clips, podcasts and online discussions with external experts and practitioners.
Lecture materials, learning resources and assessment details are accessible on the eLearning portal (Blackboard), a university-wide system that also provides access to discussion boards where you can communicate with your fellow students and lecturers.
Experience our world class campus facilities, including our human geography Qualitative Research Suite, IT suits equipped with Nvivo, GIS and Remote Sensing Software, collaborative postgraduate research spaces, and CSE-accredited University Library.
Geography and Environmental Sciences Facilities
Department of Geography and Environmental Sciences
You will be encouraged to debate key readings and actively engage in critical discussion of research strategies in interactive seminars and workshops.
This is reinforced by assessments where you critically evaluate case studies, concepts, applications and research outputs.
Our research into Disaster and Development was ranked among the top 20 impact case studies within the Research Excellence Framework for contribution towards global development.
Northumbria is one of three Europe wide groups to represent Europe and Africa in the new Global Alliance of Disaster Research Institutes, and a leading member of a new UK national research network for implementing the UK research strategy for the Sendai Framework.
In your studies you will experience the direct results of contemporary research work in fields such as climate change impact, humanitarian aid provision and social development whilst encountering project management techniques and analytical skills through developing your own live projects with the support of specialist knowledge.
Discover more about the inspirational research happening in this area at Northumbria.
Geography and Environmental Sciences Research
Disaster and Development Network (DDN)
Disasters, Development and Resilience Research
Graduates go on to careers in a widely diverse range of related areas, for example:
Emergency Planner/Emergency Planning Manager;
Disaster and Development Academic and/or Researcher;
Business Contingency Manager;
Humanitarian and United Nations Consultant;
Deputy Head of Field Officer of the Office of the United Nations for Humanitarian Assistance (OCHA)
and are often working for Environmental Agencies, Local Authorities and International, National, Regional and Local Non-Governmental Offices - often at managerial level.
A number of students who already worked in the sector have subsequently progressed to senior roles in United Nations bodies, World Vision and UK Emergency Planning.
Others have successfully gone on to PhD research before pursuing a career in academia in a range of countries around the world, both so-called developed and developing.
Our graduates are making an impact on a global scale.
Discover what happened next for these former Disaster Management and Sustainable Development students.
Alison Stretton-Downes
Researcher, Wits Reproductive Health and HIV Institute
Idelia Ferdinand
Senior Education Officer, Ministry of Education (St.
Vincent & the Grenadines)
Joseph Maxwell Clark
Community Health Advisor, US Peace Corps, Burkina Faso
Tilahun Bekele Tesfaye
Director, Give Hope Ethiopia
Full UK Fee:
                                £12,700
Full International Fee:
                                £22,350
KE7003 -
Subject Exploration in Disaster and Development (Core,20 Credits)
You will be given the opportunity to critically explore a topic of your choice into a specialised cutting edge dimension of disaster management and sustainable development drawing on contemporary themes and sub themes.
This may be theoretical / philosophical / ethical in nature, or into an applied professional area in disaster management and sustainable development.
The latter may be, if you so prefer, related to exploring the trend of professionalisation, enterprise and entrepreneurship in the disaster and development field, but there are no pre-selected topics due to the tailored individualised learning concept of this module.
Real scenarios and case studies will be engaged with during the module through directed learning activities, but for the predominate part of the module you will be working individually on your chosen topic which will need to be agreed with the module leader as appropriate.
This topic of yours could be a virtual or real research or advisory / consultancy project (widely defined).
You will individually reflect on your interaction and learning with the issues focussed on, but also benefit from peer learning.
You will take your findings into a mode of communication to share this more widely, which ordinarily would be a report but a negotiated alternative mode of presentation (website, visualisation etc) can be negotiated with the module tutor if equivalent to the report in length and effort.
KE7004 -
Themes in Sustainable Development (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about how climate and environmental change weave through contemporary debates, challenges and practice in Sustainable Development from Global North and Global South perspectives.
The module starts by covering the physical processes of climate change, broader environmental change and their impacts as an essential aspect of understanding the contemporary challenges of sustainable development.
This serves as an essential foundation for learning about disasters (including adaptation, management and resilience) and their relationship to development.
We focus on concepts, interpretations and principles of sustainable development, as well as the global institutions, policies, conferences and landmark contributions to the sustainability debate, policy and practice.
We then mobilise this knowledge to focus on the developing world to learn about approaches to poverty alleviation, livelihoods, One Health, human security, natural resource management, and disasters.
You will learn the appropriate conceptual frameworks to understand and approach these issues in depth.
Finally the module explores how these problems intersect with dynamics in urban industrial societies.
This module provides an excellent foundation to employment in the development sector, for example by enabling you to better understand sector-wide debates, issues and processes.
You will understand the different roles of various organisations and sectors in the development process as well as the language and frameworks they use in research, policy and practice.
The module supports the development the key skills of giving oral presentations, writing a logical, reasoned argument and applying theory to practice which will prove valuable in terms of enhancing employability.
KE7005 -
Disaster Risk Reduction and Response (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about hazard, vulnerability, disaster and emergency paradigms in different development contexts, and the evolution of disaster management from a response focus to a risk reduction perspective.
Within the context of disaster risk reduction, you will explore the role of international, national and local actors in reducing disaster risk.
Within the context of disaster response, you will explore how relief is managed, the role of the Humanitarian Charter and minimum standards.
To do this, we will consider a range of geophysical and hydrometeorological hazards and associated disasters, including in the context of human conflict, drawing on a range of examples that map onto the research expertise of the module’s teaching staff.
The specific topics you will study include: •	The range of interpretations of disaster management in different development contexts •	The range of institutions, stakeholders and processes at various levels and the role of intergovernmental, governmental and non-governmental organisations with reference to disaster risk reduction and response •	The principles, practices and policies of disaster risk reduction and disaster management at various levels •	The circumstances that give rise to disaster risk or disaster resilience through case studies and the application of conceptual frameworks •	How to recognise good practice in interventions for disaster management and sustainable development
KE7006 -
Health and Well-being in Disaster and Development (Optional,20 Credits)
You will learn approaches to physical, psychological, social, political, economic, cultural and environmental aspects of health and well-being associated with immediate crises and longer-term health burdens.
This lays foundations for comparing and contrasting strategic policy for preparedness and responses to emergent health hazards, complex political disasters, resilient health care and ways of looking at communities and the socio-economic, political, psychological and environmental characteristics they exhibit.
This agenda is based on a demand to understand the nature and context of changes in human health and well-being in response to local and global crisis.
It provides grounding in applied principles and practices of health and well-being centred disaster risk reduction and health care relative to conceptions of ‘health and well-being’ in emergency’, and transformations, bottom-up capabilities, leadership and hopes from inside and outside a community.
Critical issues in both minority and majority worlds are examined either in terms of health hazards, vulnerability, resilience, coping, individual and institutional health care and societal responses and in terms of a virtual or real project in community well-being.
These central themes, which are adjustable to most health and well-being phenomena, are addressed for the cases of infectious disease, nutrition, mental health and well-being, primary and emergency health care systems, the political economy of care, self-care, one health and other integrated well-being perspectives.
A prime purpose of the module is that students from varied backgrounds will be equipped to contribute to policy and practice debates or health disaster avoidance, survivability and sustainable well-being.
KE7007 -
Integrated Emergency Management (Optional,20 Credits)
Through your journey on this module you will learn how integrated emergency management (IEM) can be applied to deliver resilience across communities, businesses, infrastructure, etc.
You will learn to define and then apply key terms like ‘hazard’, ‘risk’, ‘emergency’ and ‘major incident’ within the context of anticipating and assessing the impacts from emergencies before then appraising mechanisms of preventing the emergency, or otherwise preparing to respond to it, and how we recover after an incident happens.
Included in your learning is an appraisal of international frameworks but the focus is primarily on seeing how these principles apply in practice.
So you will learn about, for example, the United Nation’s The Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030 (UNISDR, 2015) and the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) manual for The Public Health Management of Chemical Incidents (WHO, 2009).
Equally, you are encouraged to share your own country’s approaches, and your own experience, as additional examples of practice in this area.
As an example of IEM you will appraise the UK’s civil contingencies structures and through real case studies from incident mangement, some where possible will be delivered by guest speakers, you will see how theoretical incident management is delivered into practice.
Alongside civil contingencies structures you will evaluate how other regulatory frameworks support community resilience such as the application of the European Serveso Directive promotes resilience in anticipation of chemical incidents from defined high risk sites.
KE7022 -
Postgraduate Research Methods (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about the foundations (research theories), benefits / advantages and limits /drawbacks of a range of advanced standard social science research methodologies.
You will thus be in a better position to design a research strategy and operationalise this, particularly for your Masters Dissertation or Project, but also for future graduate employment in knowledge societies and research-rich or informed careers and professions.
You will also be better prepared to scrutinise other people’s / organisations’ research, and to what extent it is appropriate, robust and meaningful – particularly the connection between research objectives / questions and methods and interpretation of findings.
Research methods covered will include both qualitative and quantitative methods and techniques to explore issues in disaster and development studies, and global development from a human / societal / social processes / organisations / communities perspective.
Particular attention will be devoted to evidence-based policy making and “wicked issues”.
“Natural” environmental processes will be within the scope of the module as far as a social science-based exploration of “produced nature” is fruitful and necessary.
Key topics/themes/issues covered can include, but are not limited to:  Approaching Research Methods, Designing Your Research Process,  Ethics and Risk Assessment, Fieldwork Research Issues, Consultancy  / Stakeholder issues, Case study research, Qualitative / Institutional Research Methods and Analysis, Quantitative Research Methods and (spatial and thematic) Data Analysis, Development Fieldwork through Interviewing, Participatory methods, Survey research, qualitative versus quantitative research and its applications, mixed methods research, research analysis and communication (writing-up and for of presentation).
KE7028 -
Academic Language Skills for Geography (Core – for International and EU students only,0 Credits)
KE7048 -
International Development Study Visit (Optional,20 Credits)
This is an innovative experiential module that will involve you preparing for, taking part in and reflecting on an overseas study visit.
Visits will take place in various locations and will draw on the expertise, partnership, and experiences of the teaching staff.
You may visit India, Indonesia, Peru, Uganda or other countries where teaching staff maintain well-established research projects and professional relationships.
The location of each study visit will be advertised in advance.
Through this module you will (a) seek to develop a sound knowledge and understanding of the development trajectory of the country/region you are visiting, (b) engage with key civil society development actors and educational partners in that context, (c) deepen your understanding of development practice, (d) develop key transferrable fieldwork skills and (e) develop a critical appreciation of the importance of experiential learning in your own personal and academic development.
The central part of this module will be your experiences whilst overseas in which you will be supported through a range of activities to engage with development practitioners and development challenges as well as the cultural life of the location visited.
In order to prepare you for this, workshop will focus on cultural awareness training, the development of core fieldwork skills and planning for enhanced group work activities.
KE7015 -
Research or Work Related Dissertation (Core,60 Credits)
You will learn to identify research questions and project ideas by critically evaluating current research and /or practice in a discipline and identifying an appropriate topic for your own exploration through reviews and analyses of appropriate literature and the planning, development and management of a study.
The module enables you to design your research using appropriate project methodologies including through analysis and evaluation of data and within the context of existing literature.
You will learn to apply concepts, models or theories to consolidate an extended knowledge in your chosen field of study whilst being aware of your own influence on the research and project process.
In formulating, researching, and writing your dissertation you will be guided by your dissertation supervisor.
The module enables you to apply combinations of theoretical, empirical or practice-based analysis in proceeding to further research and/or practice and to present findings effectively using academic conventions.
You will learn to comprehend the importance and application of research and project ethics, good practice and health and safety aspects of field research and projects including confidentiality and data protection.
You will be able to write up the research in the form of a 20,000-word dissertation.
The dissertation module equips you to cope with an extended piece of work that significantly increases your employability in the sectors represented by the MSc programme.
This may include through an internship with an external organisation.
KE7037 -

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/disaster-management-and-sustainable-development-msc-ft-dtfdsd6:
Listen to what our students have to say about studying this course.
Book an Open Day Take a Virtual tour
Our connections with professionals working in the sector ensure that the course content is aligned with current practice and relevant to the world, while staff research helps to inform new innovations, reflected in the taught modules of the MSc.
Professional links are maintained by the programme staff and such connections could lead to placements in countries such as Sri Lanka, the Philippines, India, Nepal, Australia and a number of African countries, as well as with EU and UK-based organisations.
Get inspired by some of our previous students, who have used their Northumbria qualifications to make a remarkable impact on the world.
Applications are welcomed from those with relevant work experience.
Suitable equivalent qualifications will be considered, particularly in the case of overseas and mature candidates.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/doctor-of-business-administration-dtfbad7:
The programme will enhance managers’ theoretical
understanding, critical ability and research skills, enabling you to carry out
a substantial piece of practice-based research that makes an independent and
original contribution to your field of practice.
Over the course of your studies, you will:
You will be expected to pass through milestone targets in
each year of study, giving clear structure to the DBA programme.
For both full
and part-time programmes, these milestones include Project Approval and Annual
Progression.
You will study in a block release mode, supported by daily
use of our eLearning Portal.
Level of Study Research
Start October 2025
Visit an Open Day to find out about life in Newcastle, tour our facilities, discover your funding options and chat to staff and students.
The lectures are themed around topics such as:
The mandatory block study mode allows you to continue in employment throughout your studies, giving you direct access to the professional context within which your doctoral programme rests.
Personal study during the inter-block periods is vital for reflecting on the content of the taught modules, relating theory to your current (or past) professional practice, undertaking your research and preparing for your doctoral thesis/portfolio.
This study time is self-managed, but supported by fellow participants, academic mentors and tutors.
You will be assessed in the taught stage of the programme by a critically argued research proposal of approximately 4000 words.
On successful completion of the assessment, you will progress on to the research stage of the programme, which is assessed through the Annual Progression process, and ultimately your doctoral thesis/portfolio.
A feature of the Professional Doctorate is the flexibility of the form of submission at the research phase.
Whilst a thesis of approximately 60,000 words is permissible, the University’s Professional Doctorate Framework also allows you to submit a portfolio commensurate with your professional circumstances and reflecting the research focus of your work.
*Lecture themes are subject to change
Supervisors are normally allocated, where possible, to reflect both your research interests and the expertise of the university’s staff.
Discover more by reading staff profiles for the academics in Newcastle Business School.
The Graduate School is at the heart of the university's support network for research students, working closely with the research community across the university to promote high-quality academic and professional standards.
From enrolment to viva, you'll benefit from focused training and development programmes solely reserved for research students.
You’ll have full access to our eLearning Portal, ‘Blackboard Learn’, which includes video lectures, web conferencing, study notes, discussion boards, virtual classrooms and communities.
Blackboard Learn brings together all aspects of course management as well as assessment and feedback.
Click here to find out more about research at Northumbria, and here to explore research areas specifically within Newcastle Business School.
Individuals who have completed a
professional doctorate or Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) often pursue
careers in senior leadership and management roles across various industries.
The DBA is specifically designed to enhance practical expertise and
problem-solving skills, making graduates well-suited for positions that require
a deep understanding of business administration and strategic decision-making.
Some typical careers for DBA graduates can include:
It's important to note that the career path
of a DBA graduate can vary depending on their area of specialization and
previous work experience.
Furthermore, DBA programs often emphasize
industry-specific knowledge, which can open up opportunities in sectors such as
healthcare, finance, technology, manufacturing, and more.
Overall, DBA holders
are well-positioned to make significant contributions in their chosen field and
drive positive change in the organizations they lead.
Applicants should normally have A minimum of a 2.1 honours degree; or a Masters (preference for Merit or above); or APEL evidence of substantial practitioner achievement.
A 1000 word research proposal, outlining your area of research; please note that even if you are applying for a specific research vacancy with a pre-defined research proposal, you are still required to write a proposal expanding on the provided description of the project.
For guidance on writing your research proposal, please see here .
Applied Sciences studentships do not require submission of a proposal, please refer to the studentship advert for further information.
If you are applying for a course within Newcastle Business School or Northumbria Law School you will need to use the PGR Research Proposal Template
Visit www.northumbria.ac.uk/yourcountry English Language requirements: International applicants are required to have a minimum overall IELTS (Academic) score of 6.5 with component 6.0 in each component (or approved equivalent*).
Applications to the Faculty of Business and Law also require a writing component score of 6.5.
UK Fee in Year 1:
                                £13,081
International Fee in Year 1:
                                £16,805
Please note, the Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) programme is not eligible for the Doctoral Loan.
Further information can be found on the Government website.
Click here for UK and International Scholarship, Fees and Funding information.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/doctor-of-business-administration-dtpbad7:
The programme will enhance managers’ theoretical understanding, critical ability and research skills, enabling you to carry out a substantial piece of practice-based research that makes an independent and original contribution to your field of practice.
You will be expected to pass through milestone targets in each year of study, giving clear structure to the DBA programme.
For both full and part-time programmes, these milestones include Project Approval and Annual Progression.
You will study in a block release mode, supported by daily use of our eLearning Portal.
The mandatory block study mode will allow you to continue in employment throughout your studies, giving you direct access to the professional context within which your doctoral programme rests.
UK Fee in Year 1:
                                £8,720
International Fee in Year 1:
                                £11,204
NX0439 -
Advanced Business Research (Core,30 Credits)
This module builds on participants' previous research skills and knowledge of research techniques to further enhance understanding of methodologies, methods and advanced techniques that are central to developing a coherent and well-argued research proposal.
The underlying research philosophies are critically explored to enable business and management research to be contextualized and executed at the appropriate level, supported by exposure to advanced techniques of data collection and analysis.
Throughout, development of doctoral level research skills is emphasized allowing participants to produce a research proposal commensurate with the level of study and in the context of their professional practice.
Within this module, a variety of vehicles are used to deliver material and support learning.
In the taught blocks of this module, a combination of online lectures, online seminars and online workshops form the principal platform for delivery.
This principal platform of delivery is supported by online media based around the eLearning portal.
The taught blocks of this module can also be attended face-to-face.
This is optional and the availability of these face-to-face sessions depends on the number of participants.
In addition, all students are also allocated a supervisor.
For both full- and part-time study, participants will have online contact with their supervisor, to develop their 4000-word assignment (research proposal).
We also offer students to attend face-to-face meetings with their supervisors.
Discussion of ethical considerations relating to the proposed research must accompany the proposal.
(Throughout, emphasis is placed on encouraging participants to develop a critical and reflective approach to their work when developing this proposal.)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/doctor-of-sport-drfdsp7:
2 years Full Time 1 other options available
Sport, Exercise and Rehabilitation
October 2025
The Doctor of Sport (DSport) at Northumbria is designed to
train skilled researcher-practitioners who bridge the gap between academia and
the complex realities
of sports and exercise professions.
This unique course is embedded in industry,
such that your research is inseparable from, and informed by, your experiences
in practice.
Crucially, your experience will enable you to adopt a
demand-driven approach to research and position you at the nexus between scholarship
and industry in ways that drives knowledge generation and knowledge
mobilisation.
Throughout the studies, you'll design research that addresses
workplace opportunities, solves complex problems, generates novel understanding,
and promotes ethical, professional practice.
You'll refine your research skills
and learn to critically evaluate and apply your findings to inform change and produce
tangible impact.
By the end, you'll not only develop advanced expertise but
also contribute original, evidence-based scholarship
that benefit your professional practice, your organisation, and the broader
field.
The heart of the course is a doctoral thesis tailored to
your career goals.
This work reflects your growth as a researcher and
practitioner, offering insights that drive meaningful change and enhance the
systems where you work.
It's a journey of growth, innovation, and practical
impact!
This course is also available as part-time study .
Applicants should normally have: A Master's degree in a relevant sport and/or exercise subject area .
Other relevant science or health related subjects may be considered on an individual basis.
Additional requirements
Please note that acceptance is also subject to available supervisor expertise in the department to support your area of Research
Students who have studied a non-UK qualification, can see how their qualifications compare to the standard entry criteria, by selecting the country that they received the qualification in, from our country pages.
Visit www.northumbria.ac.uk/yourcountry ?
Approval of international qualifications must be sought and attained from the British Psychological Society.
UK Fee in Year 1:
                                £7,453
International Fee in Year 1:
                                £26,970
SP7029 -
Planning Professional Practice & Research (Core,30 Credits)
The taught module delivers learning on critiquing professional development practices, contextualising research within professional practice, developing and planning applied research, structured reflection for self-assessment, and the general planning of training and development.
Oct start
The doctorate is designed to help you grow as a skilled researcher-practitioner, blending academic research with real-world application.
It also opens pathways to potential academic careers if desired.
You’ll develop practical skills like problem-solving, ethical decision-making, creative thinking, and advanced research techniques, all tailored to address real challenges in your field.
The doctorate emphasises impactful, high-quality research, helping you design effective, ethical solutions for complex problems in your professional practice.
Throughout your studies, you'll have access to the Graduate Futures Team , who offer personalised career advice, resources, and opportunities like volunteering, internships, and work experience to support your career growth.
The tutors involved in this course are highly experienced, research-active staff.
These research areas may include:
Dr Edward Hall
Dr Sarah Partington
Dr Elizabeth Partington
Dr Adam Nichol
As a DSport student at Northumbria, you may have access to
facilities related to your chosen specialism and research type, be that
qualitative, quantitative, or both
As well as this, postgraduate students may also have access
to our The Research Commons on City Campus.
This is a dedicated space designed
to foster interdisciplinary networking, collaboration, and digital scholarship
for postgraduate research students and academic staff.
Facilities include individual study areas with PCs, Macs,
and dual-screen monitors, as well as collaborative spaces and consultation
rooms, and a central hub with soft seating, a research reference collection.
Drop-in
sessions with library staff may provide expert support on topics like
copyright, scholarly communication, and reference tools.
Sports Facilities

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/doctor-of-sport-drpdsp7:
3 years Part Time 1 other options available
This course is also available as full-time study .
UK Fee in Year 1:
                                £4,969
International Fee in Year 1:
                                £17,980
The doctorate is designed to help you grow as a skilled
researcher-practitioner, blending academic research with real-world
application.
You’ll develop practical skills like problem-solving,
ethical decision-making, creative thinking, and advanced research techniques,
all tailored to address real challenges in your field.
The doctorate emphasises
impactful, high-quality research, helping you design effective, ethical
solutions for complex problems in your professional practice.
The tutors involved in this course are highly experienced,
research-active staff.
Supervisors are normally allocated, where possible, to
reflect both your research interests and the expertise of the university’s
staff.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/doctor-of-sport-and-exercise-psychology-drfsep7:
3 years Full Time 1 other options available
Sport, Exercise and Rehabilitation, Psychology
Northumbria’s Sport & Exercise Psychology doctorate: your route to professional accreditation and registration.
The Doctor of Sport and Exercise Psychology (DSportExPsy) at Northumbria aims to provide a qualification which will act as a route to BPS chartered status and HCPC practitioner psychologist registration via a doctorate award.
This course meets the British Psychological Society (BPS) standards and is currently seeking accreditation to align with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) standards.
At the heart of the course is the fusion between academic theory and real-world practice.
You will engage in evidence-based practice under the supervision of Chartered Sport and Exercise Psychologists.
You will also complete a doctoral research study that has specific relevance and application to your area of practice.
The work that you undertake on this course will facilitate your growth as a researcher and practitioner, offering insights that drive meaningful change and enable you to enhance your working practice.
It's a journey of growth, innovation, and practical impact!
In your supervised practice, you will apply psychological theory to the real world of sport and exercise.
You will develop an evidence base for your practice and will reflect critically upon your own practice decisions and experiences.
Throughout your studies, you'll refine your research skills and learn to critically evaluate and apply your findings to make a tangible impact.
By the end of the programme, you'll not only develop advanced research expertise but also contribute original, evidence-based solutions that benefit your professional practice, your organisation, and the broader field of sport and exercise psychology.
A BPS accredited MSc Sport and Exercise Psychology plus the 30-credit taught bridging element (SP7029 Planning Professional Practice and Research) provide the foundation for progression to doctoral level.
Both elements must be successfully completed before candidates can progress to the 360 L8 credits (Professional Practice and Research).
International applicants are required to have a minimum overall IELTS (Academic) score of 7.0 with 6.5 in each component (or approved equivalent*).
UK Fee in Year 1:
                                £8,280
International Fee in Year 1:
                                £21,976
Upon successfully completing this course, you can simultaneously achieve both a Doctoral level qualification and a professional qualification that legally confers your fitness to practice in the field of sport and exercise psychology.
Teaching and learning strategies and assessments have been specifically designed to create opportunities for you to develop and evidence the key competencies required by the BPS and HCPC.
You’ll develop practical skills like problem-solving, professional judgement, ethical decision-making, creative thinking, and advanced research techniques, all tailored to address real challenges in your field.
The course emphasises impactful, high-quality research, helping you design effective, ethical solutions for complex problems in your professional practice.
Throughout your studies, you'll also have access to the Graduate Futures Team , who offer personalised career advice, resources, and opportunities like volunteering, internships, and work experience to support your career growth.
The tutors involved in this course are highly experienced, BPS Chartered and HCPC registered practitioners.
Staff are also research-active across the Sport, Exercise & Rehabilitation and Psychology subject areas.
Access to this broad range of staff will provide you with the opportunity to choose from a varied selection of research topics and methods to suit your personal and professional interests.
Research supervisors are normally allocated, where possible, to reflect both your interests and the expertise of the university’s staff.
Dr Julius Jooste
Dr Melissa Fothergill
As a Doctor of Sport and Exercise Psychology student at Northumbria, you may have access to facilities related to your chosen specialism and research type, be that qualitative, quantitative or both.
This may include specialist laboratories and interview spaces.
As well as this, postgraduate students may also have access to the Research Commons on City Campus.
This is a dedicated space designed to foster interdisciplinary networking, collaboration, and digital scholarship for postgraduate research students and academic staff.
Facilities include individual study areas with PCs, Macs, and dual-screen monitors, as well as collaborative spaces and consultation rooms, and a central hub with soft seating and research reference collections.
Drop-in sessions with library staff may provide expert support on topics like copyright, scholarly communication, and reference tools.
Psychology Facilities

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/doctor-of-sport-and-exercise-psychology-drpsep7:
UK Fee in Year 1:
                                £4,968
International Fee in Year 1:
                                £13,186
Throughout your studies, you'll also have access to the Graduate Futures Team , who offer personalised career advice, resources, and opportunities like volunteering, internships, and work experience to support your career growth

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/doctorate-of-design-drfdde7:
The Doctorate of Design provides both practical and theoretical content that reflects the
professional requirements of your field,
making you stand out to employers.
During the Professional
Practice Design Research module teaching will take place on a weekly basis and you
will also engage in independent study, with online and/or face-to-face tutor
support.
We will cover a range of theoretical principles, such as: redirective
practices, a reflective and transformative approach to design practices and
subjects, responsible innovation and design development, and the understanding /
practice of distinctive processes of design ethics.
In addition, you will cover
core practical research methods that will help you to effectively frame your
design practice as research.
Research contribution is a key
focus on this course.
You will be expected to identify, appraise, and analyse
the potential impact research can make to professional design practice - culminating
in a thesis or practical portfolio that will inform your own practice and the
wider practice in the field of design.
You will be supported
academically on the programme through a combination of module tutor and
supervisor guidance and assistance.
All teaching and assessment materials will
be available electronically on our E-Learning system, including recorded
teaching materials and/or streamed material for distance-learning.
The course has been designed
for professionally qualified individuals based in the UK and internationally - covering
a range of design disciplines, including but not limited to industrial,
graphic, digital, interior, multisensory and fashion.
This programme will substantially
benefit you if you wish to pursue an academic career in the field of design and
develop both conceptual and practice-led research outputs and projects.
There may also be the
opportunity for students to engage with professional industries and design
studios as part of their thesis research, given the practice-led nature of the
programme.
Mode of Study 2 years Full Time 1 other options available
Department Arts
You
will gain a foundational knowledge in research methodology, design concepts and
theory, ethics, and research design principles by means of the 30-credit taught
core module (Level 7).
Teaching will take place on a weekly basis and can be
delivered face-to-face or online (synchronously and asynchronously), using cutting
edge software such as Blackboard Collaborate and Panopto.
Across the taught element, there will be a
combination of structured lectures, workshops, directed learning activities,
group work and seminar presentations.
With a focus on creative student-centred
learning and self-evaluation/reflection at each juncture.
You will be taught by suitable
academically qualified staff and research active members of the School of
Design.
By
the end of the taught element you will be required to produce a research
proposal.
This
is the equivalent of the PhD Project Approval and meets the same criteria.
Once
successfully completed, you will further develop and progress your research
during the independent research phase of the DDes (supported by your
supervisor).
You
will be assessed on a Pass/Fail basis for the taught Professional Practice
Design Research module and your thesis will be reviewed as part of the Annual
Review process within the Faculty of Arts, Design and Social Sciences and will
be formally assessed in a viva voce examination.
With
many years’ experience supporting design students, our expert team will be
there as a support through every step of the programme, ensuring students leave
with confidence and the professional knowledge needed to succeed in the field
of design practice.
You will be supported
pastorally most immediately through your allocation of a Principal Supervisor
based in the School of Design, and you will also have an additional Second
Supervisor who will also give you both academic and personal support.
Furthermore, additional PGR
support is provided by the School of Design’s Lead of PGR, the Faculty Lead of
PGR, and Northumbria’s Graduate School.
Throughout the duration of
your programme, you will have access to state-of-the-art facilities such as our
University library – which is ranked in the top three in the UK – and well
equipped working space, The Hub, which is open 24 hours a day, seven days a
week.
Your learning experience will
be enhanced though the use of technology and learning materials such as module
guides, assessment information, lecture presentation slides and reading lists
will be available via our innovative e-learning platform, Blackboard.
You can
also access student support and other key University systems through your
personal account.
You will work with your supervisory team which
will help you to locate and critically evaluate and apply up-to-date design
research to enable you to engage in research independently, which forms the
basis of Year 2 study (and Year 3 if you are a part-time student).
The
programme will support you in becoming a researching professional by studying a
professional doctorate, rather than an academic researcher by studying a PhD.
In this way, the DDes assists practitioners looking to develop their experience
and employability through research training, which will substantially benefit
you if you wish to pursue an academic career in the field of design and develop
both conceptual and practice-led research outputs and projects.
You
will complete a review of your planned and completed research training at the
end of the Design Research module (and when applying for subsequent annual
progressions).
This review requires you to reflect upon your training and
experiences to date and allows you to identify any further training
requirements that you feel you may need to complete your thesis.
Additionally,
you will be able to employ effective information searching strategies to
identify and retrieve current literature relating to their research using
appropriate information resource tools to undertake your research.
The professional basis of the programme means
that you will be engaging with research that is directly relevant to design-based
industries and design-based academic institutions.
In terms of practical skills
that will enhance employability, the Professional Design Doctorate includes creative
thinking, group work and presentations of research questions and findings, it will
enable you to hone your expertise and clearly communicate the impact you can
make in different practical contexts.
Most
fundamentally, the doctoral programme is designed to enable design-based
practitioners to develop as research-active academics.
Generating research that
will centrally address relevant issues, developments, emerging practices, and
challenges relating to design industries.
This unique career trajectory can
also have relevance for post-doctoral industry engagements and start-up
business initiatives, in the industrial context of design and design
development.
Candidates joining the Doctorate of Design should have one of the following:
Where English is not the applicant's first language, either an IELTS score of 6.5 (with no component below 6.0), or an equivalent as recognised in the University English Language Admissions Guidelines for the current academic year is the minimum requirement for consideration.
Candidates will be assessed on these criteria and utilising the University’s APEL, APL and AWBL policy for entry, 150 credits of advanced standing will be recognised against the existing Masters qualification.
Where a candidate holds a UK Masters award that satisfies the learning outcomes at Masters level, advanced entry to the DDes programme is permitted.
Evidence of qualifications and professional work experience must be provided, with detailed documentation of the content of Postgraduate awards provided for an assessment of eligibility to be made.
UK Fee in Year 1:
                                £8,367
International Fee in Year 1:
                                £23,600
DE7027 -
Professional Practice Design Research (Core,30 Credits)
Through a combination of lectures and seminar discussions you will engage with academics and other practitioners to examine how professional knowledge can be constructed and defended.
These activities will help you define a research problem, formulate a research statement, and form the clear and critical research question that will guide and inform your doctoral project.
You will examine the nature of practice-led research from the perspective of design and consider how to effectively develop concepts, use theoretical frameworks and apply reflective approaches to support the development, undertaking, and successful completion of a practice-led and practice-based design research project.
You will appraise how the development of evidence enables an analysis of the saliency or usefulness of emerging practices and how a practice context can develop evidence about how design integrates with other change agents to build intelligence for strategic decision making and systemic change.
The core of the module will enable you to learn key contemporary design theoretical approaches that will be applied to your professionally related thesis subject.
In this regard, you will cover key and distinctive theoretical and conceptual subjects and approaches such as redirective practice, a body of thought which cultivates and inspires a self-reflective and ultimately transformative design attitude and practice.
You will also learn socially and environmentally responsible innovation, design for strategy and social development and design ethics.
These topics and knowledge forms will enable you to conceptualise your practical experience in a contemporary manner that stresses the transformative role that designers have and therefore facilitates a viable and relevant research topic and research process strategy.
Furthermore, you will learn the principles of key research methods such as key qualitative approaches (unstructured and semi-structured interviews, textual and material analysis, focus groups, and key ethnographic approaches) and quantitative methods and data analysis principles (surveys, for example).
You will also engage with the ethics of research, which are a fundamental component of research and engagement with the social world.
Finally, you will be taught effective research proposal design, an essential aspect of the programme that will assist you in formulating a clear and original design-based doctoral subject, which will be the basis of your subsequent study for the duration of the doctoral programme and which will result in the production of an original research project that enhances professional design practice and produces fresh design-oriented critical knowledge.
Oct, Jan start

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/doctorate-of-design-drpdde7:
The Doctorate of Design provides both practical and theoretical content that reflects the professional requirements of your field, making you stand out to employers.
During the Professional Practice Design Research module teaching will take place on a weekly basis and you will also engage in independent study, with online and/or face-to-face tutor support.
We will cover a range of theoretical principles, such as: redirective practices, a reflective and transformative approach to design practices and subjects, responsible innovation and design development, and the understanding / practice of distinctive processes of design ethics.
In addition, you will cover core practical research methods that will help you to effectively frame your design practice as research.
Research contribution is a key focus on this course.
You will be expected to identify, appraise, and analyse the potential impact research can make to professional design practice - culminating in a thesis or practical portfolio that will inform your own practice and the wider practice in the field of design.
You will be supported academically on the programme through a combination of module tutor and supervisor guidance and assistance.
All teaching and assessment materials will be available electronically on our E-Learning system, including recorded teaching materials and/or streamed material for distance-learning.
The course has been designed for professionally qualified individuals based in the UK and internationally - covering a range of design disciplines, including but not limited to industrial, graphic, digital, interior, multisensory and fashion.
This programme will substantially benefit you if you wish to pursue an academic career in the field of design and develop both conceptual and practice-led research outputs and projects.
There may also be the opportunity for students to engage with professional industries and design studios as part of their thesis research, given the practice-led nature of the programme.
Mode of Study 3 years Part Time 1 other options available
Department Northumbria School of Design
Start October 2025 or January 2026
UK Fee in Year 1:
                                £5,579
International Fee in Year 1:
                                £15,733

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-economics-extended-degree-uusxic1:
Fascinated by what makes the financial world tick?
Want to make your mark in business and investment?
Our BSc (Hons) Economics course builds the analytical skills and knowledge you’ll need to carve out a successful career in the economics sector.
It’s designed around the research of our teaching experts and backed by excellent industry links.
During the course, you’ll dig deep into modern economics and how it influences the financial systems and organisations around us.
And you’ll develop your understanding of microeconomics, macroeconomics, corporate governance and corporate social responsibility.
Your main base is the Newcastle Business School.
During your studies, you will have the chance to venture further afield with an optional industry placement, applying your knowledge and securing critical experience in the real world.
It’s not just about developing skills, but also boosting employability once you leave us.
In recent years, our students have spent their placement working with some of the biggest names in the business – including the Bank of England and Bloomberg LP.
Many have then gone on to secure full-time graduate positions with their placement year employer.
100% of students studying Economics at Northumbria believed they had chance to explore ideas and concepts in depth (NSS, 2025).
BSc (Hons) Economics is covered by the prestigious Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) accreditation for Newcastle Business School.
See other similar courses you may be interested in: Accounting BSc , Economics and Finance BSc , Finance and Investment Management BSc
UCAS Code Z018
The course begins with an introduction to
mathematical and statistical techniques – building familiarity with the core
elements of micro and macroeconomics.
As it progresses, you’ll pursue your own research and analysis – developing your microeconomic skills and analytical reasoning by
studying the strategies firms use to compete and maximise profit.
The course culminates in a final year dissertation/management enquiry project.
As part of this, you’ll
explore a topic of your choice – or one related to your undergraduate
consultancy project – working to solve a real financial business problem.
You’ll learn through lectures, seminars and workshops, independently
as well as in groups.
Many modules focus strongly on problem-based learning and
enable you to get hands-on with industry-standard financial and economics
software.
Alongside our teaching, you’ll benefit
from a well-designed support system to help you develop the academic study
skills you need.
And we make sure that we build extensive feedback, from both
tutors and peers, into the course.
If you’re a non-UK student, you can choose
optional sessions to help develop both your academic language and study skills.
Newcastle Business School has a global reputation for delivering
some of the UK’s best business management education.
We’re part of an elite
group of business schools worldwide with double accreditation from the
Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) in business and
accounting.
Our staff have come to us from a range of backgrounds and now
share their passion with students.
Specialisms include consumer
decision-making, evaluations of sports events and business performance
management.
The School’s teaching team is always looking to explore new fields
of knowledge and generate ground-breaking concepts and insights.
Nadia Singh
VIEW MORE STAFF
At Newcastle Business School you’ll experience a
first-class education in a world-class environment.
From our social spaces and
hub areas to lecture theatres and exhibition spaces, our facilities are
exceptional.
For example, the 24/7 university library achieves some of the highest
levels of student satisfaction in the UK and has held the Cabinet Office
accreditation for Customer Service Excellence since 2010.
We’re also committed to helping you make the most
of Technology Enhanced Learning (TEL) by embedding it throughout the course.
Tools such as the ‘Blackboard’ eLearning Portal and electronic reading lists
are there to help you efficiently and thoroughly prepare for seminars and
independent research.
Lecture capture software means you can revise previously
lectured material online in your time, as well as at your speed.
On the School’s ground floor, you’ll find our innovative Bloomberg
Trading Room.
It’s where you can put your financial
and analytical skills to the test in a simulated trading environment using fully equipped
Bloomberg terminals.
What’s more, there are plenty of opportunities to
put your learning into practice through volunteering, internships and
placements.
This includes the Business Clinic that enables our students to
participate in a ‘consultancy firm’ to provide advice for our region’s
businesses.
With us, your learning will be
influenced and inspired by our teaching team’s active research into their
specialist subjects.
These include equity financing, systemic risk, forensic accounting and
fraud, plus the wider accounting and finance domain.
All modules reflect a research-rich approach which will help you
become a more critical, reflective and independent thinker.
You’ll become
skilled in formulating questions, critiquing different interpretations – and
developing well-founded arguments.
During your studies you’ll analyse research within a specific area of
accounting and finance, drawing on relevant concepts and frameworks to create a
critical synthesis of business practice and academic theory.
This will develop your
ability to conduct, analyse and interpret
financial data – ready to be applied in real-world scenarios during your
career.
Find out what research areas our student and staff are getting involved in.
Our BSc (Hons) Economics course is all about creating the world’s next top investors, financiers and business
analysts.
It’s also designed to inspire the freshest business and management
talent, both in the UK and on the global stage.
That’s why we introduced an optional year-long industry placement.
Our placements team is constantly working to develop exciting
opportunities at industry-leading organisations such as Central Bank, Bloomberg
LP, Bank of England and departments within in-house companies.
By the end of the course you will be skilled at data and
performance analysis, presenting complex findings in an easily understandable
manner, making logical recommendations based on your research, understanding
programming language and how to apply this in real-world contexts.
The course will also prepare you for further study on one of our
postgraduate courses such as:
International Finance and Investment MSc
Whatever
you decide to do, you will have strong employability as a result of having
acquired the characteristics of a Northumbria graduate.
These include critical
reflection and self-learning, collaboration and curiosity, and the ability to
apply your knowledge to solve problems in ways that are sustainable and
ethical.
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Economics.
Introduction to Mathematics and Statistics (Core,20 Credits)
Accounting, Economics and Finance in a Global Business Environment (Core,20 Credits)
AF4040 -
Introduction to Macroeconomics (Core,20 Credits)
This module will introduce you to macroeconomic key-concepts and conventional macroeconomic thinking so that you can understand how these have an impact on individual nations and the global economy.
You will be exposed to foundational concepts, such as the role of aggregate supply and demand, measures of economic growth, fiscal and monetary policy and economic schools of thought.
By completing this module, you should have an awareness and understanding of everyday macroeconomic events.
The topics covered will include: • Foundational Principles of Macroeconomics; • Macroeconomic Measurement: Environmental and Social Dimensions; • Economic Growth/Decline in the Short, Medium and Long Run; • Employment, Unemployment and Economic Growth; • Introduction to Monetary and Fiscal Policies; • Aggregate Expenditure, Aggregate Demand and Aggregate Supply; • The IS/LM Framework; • Overview of Principal Schools of Economic Thought.
AF4041 -
Introduction to Microeconomics (Core,20 Credits)
This module introduces you to the basic principles of microeconomics and their applications at a practical level, giving you a robust platform for subsequent study of economics modules in more advanced contexts.
The module aims to provide students with the necessary skills and techniques to analyse economic problems from a mathematical, graphical and intuitive perspective.
At the end of the module, you will be able to apply your newly acquired knowledge of microeconomics theories to a range of real-world scenarios.
The topics covered in the module include: •	Fundamental Microeconomic Principles; •	Choice in the World of Scarcity; •	Building Blocks of Supply And Demand; •	Elasticity of Demand; •	Introduction to Labour and Financial Markets; •	Cost and Industry Structures; •	Perfect Competition; •	Monopoly, Monopolistic Competition and Oligopolies; •	Introduction to Public Goods.
AF5036 -
Mathematics and Statistics for Economics and Finance (Core,20 Credits)
Building on knowledge gained at level 4, you will continue to learn and increase your skills in applying a variety of practical mathematical and statistical methods specific to the disciplines of finance and economics.
On the side of mathematics, this module will expand on geometric series, optimisation methods and techniques, differentiation and integration.
On the side of statistics, you will review the derivation of probability distribution and introduce basic principles for machine learning.
The module will address formal derivations of mathematical and statistic functions by applying theories and techniques to practical economic and finance cases and examples.
Topics in this module include: 1.
Review of Mathematical Functions; 2.
Mathematics of Financial Returns; 3.
Optimisation Methods: Linear Programming; 4.
Differentiation of functions of two or more variables 5.
Optimisation methods: Maxima and minima of a function of two variables 6.
Integration: primitive of a function and Riemann integral; 7.
Linear Algebra and Portfolio Theory 8.
Probability Distributions; 9.
Maximum likelihood principle and elements of Machine Learning.
AF5039 -
Econometrics (Core,20 Credits)
Building on mathematical and statistical prior knowledge, the module introduces students to the theory and application of econometrics.
You will learn classical econometric models such as simple and multiple regression analysis, assumptions and properties of statistical estimators, and the reasoning for violating these assumptions in specific cases.
The module covers modelling and statistical inference techniques for single and multi-equation systems, and the use of these techniques with regard to data prediction, model evaluation and forecasting.
Outline Syllabus: 1.
Review of Basic Statistics; 2.
Simple Regression Analysis; 3.
Properties of Regression Coefficients; 4.
Inference Testing; 5.
Multiple Regression Analysis; 6.
Specification of Regression Variables; 7.
Violations and Solutions of Classical Linear Assumptions; 8.
Time Series Analysis; 9.
Panel Data Models; 10.
Forecasting Techniques.
You will develop skills that can be applied more widely, such as problem solving and data analysis skills, through writing of workshop questions and assessments; you will gain analytical academic writing skills relevant to the world of economics and finance.
AF5040 -
Intermediate Macroeconomics (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will expand and further deepen your understanding of macroeconomic concepts and conventional macroeconomic thinking.
As this is an intermediate course, you will advance your knowledge of macroeconomic theories and their extensions towards practical applications for the purposes of economic analysis.
In addition, this module will provide you with the opportunity to engage with contemporary macroeconomics research.
By completing this module, you will be able to use the knowledge gained in view of critically analyse global and significant macroeconomic events.
The topics covered in this module include: • Monetary Policy and Inflation Targeting; • Short-Run Output Fluctuations and the Role of Multipliers; • Unemployment and Inflation; • Business Cycles and Wages; • Debts and Deficits: The Government Budget Constraint, Fiscal Policy and Output Stabilization; • IS/LM and AD/AS in Closed and Open Economies; • Long Run Economic Growth; • The Role of Expectations in the Macroeconomic Environment and within Financial Markets; • International Trade in Goods and Assets; • Contemporary Issues in Macroeconomics e.g.
the 2008 Financial Crisis, the COVID19 Crisis.
AF5041 -
Intermediate Microeconomics (Core,20 Credits)
This module will provide you with a thorough understanding of intermediate microeconomics theory, building on microeconomics keyconcepts and principles introduced to you in the first year.
You will enhance your understanding of more complex microeconomics concepts and theories, such as general equilibrium, welfare analysis, behavioural economics, and game theory.
You will be expected to understand the defining assumptions and internal structure of the different analytical frameworks, their mathematical basis, applications and limitations.
At the end of this module, will be able to use the knowledge gained to provide a critical analysis of real world microeconomic issues.
The topics covered in this module include: • Mathematical Concepts in Microeconomics: Constrained Optimisation, Comparative Static Analysis; • The Envelope Theorem; • General Equilibrium and Social Welfare; • Fundamental Welfare Theorems; • Market Failure and Public Goods; • Choice under Uncertainty; • Introduction to Behavioural Economics of Risk, Uncertainty And Ambiguity; • Game Theory I: Static Games of Complete Information; • Game Theory II: Dynamic Games of Complete Information.
AF5042 -
World Economy (Core,20 Credits)
The world economy continues to become more interconnected and many social and economic challenges are not limited to national boundaries but are global.
This module will introduce you to the basic concepts, theories and methods used by economists to understand and explain the features of the modern world economy.
The module will introduce you to international relations and develop your understanding of how they impact the world economy.
You will begin to develop a critical understanding of the history and methodology of international economics and the winners and losers of globalisation.
At the end of the module you will be able to apply the relevant theory and economic frameworks to critically analyse the macroeconomic landscape and alternative policy options available to governments across the world.
The module will cover: The history of the global economy and international institutions.
The history and dynamics of international trade and foreign direct investment.
National and international policy approaches to sustainability and climate change and their implications for economic development.
The effect of innovation waves on the global economy.
Labour resources and the demographic factors of economic growth.
The geography of international migration flows.
The emergence of global value chains and the rise of China and India.
Understanding the role of trade in achieving the UN’s Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development will be central to the discussion on this module.
This module will help you explore and analyse the impact of globalisation and international macroeconomics on global poverty and inequality.
Sustainable Development and Responsible Business (Core,20 Credits)
AF6040 -
Advanced Macroeconomics (Core,20 Credits)
This module will deepen your understanding of macroeconomic concepts and conventional macroeconomic thinking.
As this is an advanced course, the emphasis is on both critical thinking and practical application of concepts and frameworks in the analysis of contemporary macroeconomics and policy issues.
During the module, you will engage extensively with research in macroeconomics.
By completing this module, you should be able to use the knowledge gained to provide a critical analysis of global and significant macroeconomic events.
The topics covered will include: • A Recap of Intermediate Concepts; • Growth, Capital Accumulation and Technological Progress; • Goods and Financial Markets – Extensions; • Output, Interest Rates and Exchange Rates; • Exchange Rate Regimes; • The Neutrality of Money Theorem; • Financial Markets and Expectations; • Fiscal and Monetary Policy; • Macroeconomic Growth Theory and Growth Cycles; • The Developmental State and Industrial Policy.
AF6044 -
Advanced Microeconomics (Core,20 Credits)
The ability to apply rigorous economic analysis to real-world problems continues to be a key skill valued by employers.
This module provides you with a thorough understanding of advanced  concepts in microeconomics, building upon the foundations acquired in  intermediate microeconomics at Level 5.
You will be  equipped to analyse and discuss important economic issues with the benefit of a rigorous foundation and deep knowledge of applied microeconomics.
The module will examine  recent developments in microeconomic theory and subsequent implications for the decision making of individuals, firms and government institutions.
Controversies surrounding key elements of microeconomic theory will be discussed through the examination of contemporary economic debate, with explanations from a variety of microeconomic theoretical approaches.
The co-evolution of individual preferences and the structure of markets; firms and other institutions will be examined using advances in game theory, general equilibrium analysis, behavioural experiments and the modelling of dynamic processes.
The key topics covered in the module will include: Revealed preference theory Choice with risk and uncertainty including prospect theory Information economics General equilibrium analysis including fundamental welfare theorems Principal-agent problem including signalling and screening Repeated and dynamic games Collective action problems
AF6045 -
Advanced Econometrics (Core,20 Credits)
The focus of this module will be on advanced econometric techniques, building upon the foundations acquired in the level 5 econometrics module.
This module will include selected topics in applied econometrics, with a focus on connecting theory with practical applications.
The lectures will be supported by computer classes using secondary data to explore the various estimation techniques.
The module will make use of econometrics software packages for the estimations of cross-sectional, panel and time-series models.
By the end of the module students will demonstrate an in-depth understanding of modern econometrics, with practical application to both microeconomics and macroeconomics analysis.
This will be useful to students interested in postgraduate study in economics as well as the many disciplines outside of economics that require quantitative analysis.
The topics covered in this module include: Ordinary Least Squares Model Generalized Least Squares and Maximum Likelihood Estimation Hypotheses testing Endogeneity in Linear Regression Models Simultaneous Equations Estimation Limited Dependent Variables Time Series Models Panel Data Models
GA6002 -
Academic Language Skills for Newcastle Business School (DE) (Core – for International and EU students only,0 Credits)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-economics-and-finance-extended-degree-uusxcf1:
Our Economics and Finance BSc (Hons) course
builds the analytical skills and knowledge you’ll need to carve out a successful career in the finance
sector.
It’s designed
around the research of our teaching experts and backed by excellent industry links.
During the Economics and Finance course, you’ll dig deep into modern economics and how
it influences the financial systems and organisations around us.
You’ll develop
your understanding of microeconomics, macroeconomics, corporate governance and
corporate social responsibility.
You'll also have the chance to venture further afield with an optional industry
placement, applying your knowledge and securing critical experience in the real
world.
It’s not just about developing skills, but also boosting
employability once you leave us.
In recent years, our students have spent their
placement working with some of the biggest names in the business – including
the Bank of England and Bloomberg LP.
Many have then gone on to secure full-time
graduate positions with their placement year employer.
See other similar courses you may be interested in: Finance and Investment Management BSc (Hons) , Economics BSc (Hons) , Accounting BSc
UCAS Code Z015
As it progresses, you’ll  pursue your own research and analysis – developing your microeconomic skills and analytical reasoning by
studying the strategies firms use to compete and maximise profit.
The course culminates in a year long extended piece of work
such as a dissertation, management enquiry or group consultancy project report.
As part of this, you may explore a research topic of your choice related to the
degree, or work on a real world business problem as undergraduate consultants.
Our students learn from the best, with inspirational academic staff who have a genuine passion for their subject.
Our BSc (Hons) Economics and Finance
course is all about creating the world’s next top investors, financiers and business
analysts.
Financial Markets and Institutions (Core,20 Credits)
AF6039 -
Applied Microeconomics (Core,20 Credits)
This module provides you with a thorough understanding of advanced microeconomic theories and related policy debates, and their application in contemporary debates and real-world scenarios.
The module will enhance your ability to analyse and critically evaluate relevant economic issues by providing you with a rigorous foundation and deep knowledge of applied microeconomics.
You will examine competing approaches to microeconomic theories and their applications to policy issues, including heterodox approaches and ideas as well.
The module combines theory with applied materials and problem sets.
The core topics covered in this module will include: • Extensive Form Games and Repeated Games with Applications; • Coalition Games and Applications; • Static and Dynamic Games of Incomplete Information; • Lindahl–Pigou pricing; • Fundamental and aggregate non-convexities; • Social Choice and Information Economics.
• Prospect Theory; • Altruism and Reciprocity; • Economic Evaluation of Healthcare: Measures and Applications.
AF6041 -
Contemporary Issues in Economics and Finance (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will learn about contemporary research issues in economics and finance.
The module expands from key economics concepts and financial theories addressed in previous years by focusing on the latest developments in the global economic world, enabling students to develop a deep understanding of current economic and finance issues and arguments that dominate contemporary debates and policy making.
The module is research-led; the knowledge conveyed in the lectures serves as a stimulus for students to conduct their own research by addressing a wide range of topics, including (but not limited to): • Macroeconomic Information and its Impact on Financial Markets; • Investment Strategies Based on Information Transmission Processes; • Financial Markets Based on New Asset Classes e.g.
the Emergence of Cryptocurrencies; • The Role of Governments for National Economies and Financial Markets; • Public Policy and Externalities: Effects on Research and Development, Education and Welfare; • Regional Economies, Trading Blocks and the Economics of Development; • Agglomeration Economies and Globalisation; • Effects of Economics Crises e.g.
The Euro Zone and Sovereign Debt Crisis; • Impact of Policies and Political Changes on Economic Systems e.g.
the Brexit Process.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-economics-and-finance-uusecf1:
UCAS Code L101
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Economics and Finance.
Optional text book costs - Whilst books are available via the University Library, there are various advised/recommended books you may wish to purchase throughout the duration of the course, costs are approximately £1,080.00 (£60 per module, 6 modules per year).
Optional - Choice of field trip over the course of the programme (e.g.
dissertation workshop)
Cost to Student - Returnable deposit

Optional - Overseas field trip e.g.
New York
Cost to Student - £1350

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/economics-bsc-hons-uuseic1:
UCAS Code L110

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ma-education-leadership-and-learning-dtdmll6:
Our online Masters in Education is a flexible and career-focused course, designed to develop your practice, research and leadership skills for use in the education sector.
Against an ever-changing, global education environment (not least due to Covid-19), it’s more important than ever that educational practitioners are highly trained and well supported.
Ranked in the top 25 UK universities for Education ( The Guardian 2022 and The Complete University Guide 2022 ), Northumbria has over 100 years of teacher training experience.
This distance learning MA in Education – Leadership and Learning brings together real-world examples with ongoing research, all taught entirely online.
The course is aimed at those who work as teachers in the UK and internationally and want to progress into a senior position, as well as those in broader roles in the wider education sector.
You’ll explore the latest educational issues, theories, and concepts, as well as learning key practices in the education system.
Modules cover everything from leading and managing change to reflective practice; from Special Educational Needs and Disability (SEND), diversity and inclusion to technology in teaching.
You’ll also gain a new perspective on data and evaluation, culminating in an in-depth, research-led Systematic Appraisal towards the end of the course.
Distance learning at Northumbria is flexible.
You’ll have 24/7 access to teaching resources through our online eLearning portal, Blackboard Ultra, the ability to pay in module-by-module instalments, and you can even pause your studies if you need to (please note, any breaks will impact your graduation date).
As well as support from your tutors and peers, you will also benefit from a dedicated Student Success Advisor.
Whether you have a question around assessments, payments or navigating the online platform, they’ll be with you, offering support and guidance, at every stage.
Visit our Frequently Asked Questions for further information or to find
out more about our flexible courses or check out more information on Distance Learning.
Social Work, Education and Wellbeing Dept
Our MA in Education – Leadership and Learning is aimed at busy professionals who want to get to the next level in their careers, improve their teaching practice, and learn more about key educational topics in order to be at the forefront of the industry.
If you’re looking to progress your teaching career, whether in the UK or internationally, without taking time away from your current job, this online Masters degree in Education is for you.
It will develop your leadership skills, as well as helping you to critically reflect on, challenge and improve your practice so you’ll stand out to current and future employers.
This course is also suitable for those in wider educational roles.
You might be self-employed and interested in the theory behind education.
Or you might be looking to develop your business opportunities and teaching practices within corporate learning and HR, museums, education administration, charities, or public departmental roles in education.
15 hours is the recommended weekly study time for this course  and you can access your learning on your own schedule.
Our Masters will allow you, as a busy teacher or education professional, to balance your studies alongside personal and work commitments.
Our distance learning delivery follows a flexible model, which lets you pay for modules in instalments.
The full course fee is £7,950 (2022/23) and for students based in the UK and eligible, this can be covered by a UK Postgraduate Loan.
We also have intakes throughout the year: January, April, July, and October.
This means you can start when is convenient.
The course takes around two years to complete (minimum), though it is possible to take a study break if you need to*.
*Please note, any breaks will impact your graduation date and the full course must be completed within four years.
I wanted to join a UK university, and Northumbria University's course and online offering stood out from the rest.
The areas covered throughout the course are well balanced, and I was able to gain a lot of knowledge in each step that I took.
Chandula Bandara
Distance Leaning Student
At Northumbria University, we’re proud to offer online courses that are every bit as engaging and fulfilling for students as our on-campus programmes.
Through our bespoke distance learning facilities, we’re able to deliver this Education MA course to students who either can’t travel into the University or are looking for the convenience of learning from home – saving both living and travel expenses.
Upon graduating you’ll receive the same Masters degree qualification as you would if you were an on-campus student; there’s no mention of ‘online’ anywhere on your degree certificate.
We’ve designed this Masters in partnership with digital learning experts to make sure you get the most flexible and engaging experience possible.
The recommended study time for the course is around 15 hours a week.
You study one 20-credit module at a time, each lasting 10 weeks (plus one week for assessment) as well as your final 60-credit Systematic Appraisal.
Each of our modules has been carefully designed to ensure you gain the necessary knowledge about that topic in the most engaging way.
However, all the modules will be split into multiple sessions and follow a three-stage structure: Learn, Explore and Apply.
As well as the support of your module tutors and fellow students, you’ll have a personal Student Success Advisor who'll be on hand from day one through to graduation.
This online Education MA course is taught by research-engaged academics, who are also all experienced practitioners.
The course and its modules have been informed by their real-world experience and ongoing research, ensuring what you learn is current and relevant to today’s industry.
Northumbria has 100 years of experience in teacher training, and the faculty of Social Work, Education & Community Wellbeing carries a strong reputation.
We are currently ranked in the top 25 for Education in the UK by The Complete University Guide 2022 and The Guardian University Guide 2022 .
Academics on our Masters in Education specialise in several key areas including:
Learn more about our department’s academics and view their research profiles .
Academic Interview - Dr Irenie Lowry
MEET THE TUTORS
Northumbria University is a top 50 university in the UK (The Guardian University Guide and Complete University Guide, 2022) and research is embedded into every aspect of the Education Masters course.
The faculty has extensive research experience , with strengths in educational leadership, curriculum innovation and the impact of educational initiatives on marginalised and vulnerable groups.
Our research aims to make a positive difference to people’s lives and is based on the belief that overcoming challenges is best done by working collaboratively with individuals and their local communities.
Students on this MA course will be supported and encouraged to hone their research skills throughout each module.
This will culminate in a Systematic Appraisal, where you’ll you will learn how to use research to inform your specialist area of practice or policy.
The ability to think critically and independently is essential in this MA, and we’ll help you develop a transferrable, Master-level skillset.
Learning from tutors with real-world teaching experience puts students on our distance learning Education Masters in a great position for their future careers.
You will graduate with knowledge of the very latest in education research, policy, and practice and how to apply this in your own work.
Your understanding will be developed through critical discussion with your peers, colleagues, and lecturers.
You’ll also be encouraged to critically reflect upon and challenge your own experience, while examining and contrasting different world views.
Furthermore, you will develop skills in collaborative working and discipline-specific creativity.
All of these are valuable to demonstrate to future employers.
And your Masters degree certificate won’t mention your online or distance learning approach – you will earn the same degree as you would on campus.
The advanced teaching skills you’ll build, combined with specialised leadership modules and research capabilities are transferrable throughout the education sector and beyond.
Teachers who have their sights on a promotion will graduate with enhanced leadership, data evaluation and reflection abilities.
Our cutting-edge modules, informed by ongoing research, will prepare our MA students to bring new techniques and methods into the classroom.
A Masters degree in Education – especially one from a top 25 UK university in this area ( The Complete University Guide 2022 and The Guardian University Guide 2022 ) – is an outstanding qualification for your CV, in particular if you are looking to teach internationally.
Alternatively, if you work outside of a school, you will leave the course with a deep understanding of educational theory and practice, empowered to make change in your own organisation and ready to push your career to the next level.
Careers and Employment Service
We offer a range of careers resources and support, available online and on a one-to-one basis, for you to tap into.
Visit our Careers and Employment Service pages to learn more.
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree or an equivalent qualification such as a Certificate in Education (Cert Ed).
Other professional qualifications and relevant professional experience will also be considered.
Full International Fee:
                                £9,700
PE7063 -
Reflections on Teaching and Learning in Practice (20 Credits)
This module is intended to give students who are either professionals working within education or those who are intending to work in education an opportunity to develop their knowledge of both pedagogy and andragogy.
The module will take you on a journey through the ideology that shapes the way in which education is both defined and organised and the theoretical dissonance between theories of learning and formal education.
The focus is broad as you are encouraged to consider all aspects of teaching and learning in the statutory, further/higher and lifelong learning sectors.
PE7067 -
Educational Assessment in Practice (20 Credits)
PE7068 -
Inclusion: Leading Practice in an Educational Environment (20 Credits)
This module will give you the opportunity to explore issues, understandings and knowledge of Inclusive practice in the school or other educational settings, to include those with special educational needs.
You will engage in critical discourse with regard to pertinent issues of the Inclusion /SEND agenda.
You will examine the following topics: •	Key principles of inclusion: a whole school approach •	Barriers to change in educational practice.
•	Legislation, policy and guidance on supporting learners and their families, parents and carers.
•	Pedagogy/Education theory and approaches to delivery for diverse abilities and needs.
•	SEND and models of disability •	Appraisal of recent research and implications for Classroom/School Practice •	Developing an emerging philosophy in an ever-changing world of education.
PE7065 -
Leading Curriculum Development (20 Credits)
In this module you will have the opportunity to analyse, in–depth, what is meant by the concept of curriculum development.
This includes reflection on the curriculum leader’s role in creating a vision and climate in the school or other educational establishment, on which there is a strong focus on learning; where new ideas about teaching, the curriculum and continuing staff development are taken seriously, together with a commitment to monitoring, evaluation and review of practice.
The module will also provide you with a framework for examining the influence and impact of institutional culture and climate on curriculum development.
You will have the opportunity for detailed consideration and examination of how an effective curriculum engages the learning community in a rigorous process of monitoring, evaluation and review, linked to internal and external procedures.
You will also explore and examine ways in which the role of parents and other stakeholders contribute to effective curriculum development.
PE7064 -
Leading Learning and Change (20 Credits)
In the ever-changing landscape of education, this module aims to explore the range of changes that can impact on educational institutions and at all levels.
Starting with a consideration of up-to-date theories of learning based on real evidence, we will consider how middle and senior leaders in schools, and other learning institutions, create great teacher and pupil- learning.
Techniques, such as Lesson Study and Action Research, will be considered as part of a strategy to build a learning rich school, as will the effectiveness, or otherwise, of monitoring and the use of data.
The module will provide the opportunity to consider and discuss effective ways of bringing about change in schools and other institutions and how to manage it.
It will enable you to explore key theories and ideas and then apply them to real school challenges, bringing into this the experience of headteachers in changing their schools and local authority personnel responsible for bringing about school turn-around.
PE7069 -
Systematic Appraisal (60 Credits)
In this module, you will focus on the role of the practitioner as a research user.
Although the focus of this module in on Systematic Appraisal, you will also be introduced to a range of very different Research Methodologies and often very different linked Research Methods - used in each methodology.
Of course, it is your academic responsibility, as a level 7 academic student, to read and research each of the methodologies to consolidate your learning.
This will enable you to further develop your understanding of the importance of contextualisation and the philosophy around research.
It will also enable you to evaluate the validity and reliability of the secondary research that you select as the basis of your own research, whilst also supporting your rationale for why Systematic Appraisal is the appropriate methodology for your research topic.
These questions may address: •	Effectiveness of single/definable interventions in order to state and recommend best practice/provide evidence-based guidelines for practice.
• You will be supported to select published work to be included in the appraisal; this may be either entirely quantitative, entirely qualitative or mixed method.
The focus of this module is a small-scale systematic review which you will undertake with the support of an experienced academic research supervisor.
PE7066 -
Technology Enhanced Learning: What Works?
(20 Credits)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ma-education-leadership-and-management-dtfldt6:
The adaptable nature of this course means that our modules cover both day time and evening classes.
This unique, bespoke aspect means that it is possible to tailor your learning to your exact requirements, around other commitments such as a career or family life.
If you are interested in progressing with your career to more senior or specialist roles, then this the perfect way to build on your existing credentials and to offer something extra to employers.
The MA Education is designed to develop your professional practice and enable you to implement positive change either within the classroom or your work environment.
The Leadership and Management specialism will teach you to observe leadership and management theory, practice and research in relation to various contexts .
This specialism is equally suited to applicants who have limited leadership experience in education and those who aspire to roles in management.
You will also benefit from this course if you are from a corporate background, leading on staff training or looking to develop new modes or structures of learning.
Modules will cover aspects of leadership and management in an educational setting such as strategic leadership and management, leading learning and managing change and reflective approaches to teaching and learning.
You will be supported by a diverse and extremely well qualified range of research active staff.
The accessibility and approachability of our staff is paramount to the MA Education suite and our unique and dedicated approach to student support truly sets us apart, we will build your confidence and offer unwavering support.
All our staff are currently employed in the education sector, giving you access to the most current knowledge which is gained through practical experience.
You will enjoy the opportunity to collaborate with peers from the sector, to create a body of new and emerging knowledge.
We welcome applications from a broad range of academic backgrounds and will consider each individual application on its merit.
The reason for your application is paramount and we would encourage you to apply if you have transferable skills from less traditional circumstances, such as industry or even personal experience.
If you have any queries then please do contact our programme leader who can answer any questions on an individual basis, response may not be immediate but please be assured that you will receive a reply; irenie.lowry@northumbria.ac.uk
You will study current educational issues and examine key features of practices in educational systems.
We will encourage you to become an independent learner, able to critically reflect on your own experience and apply what you have learned to your own organisation.
You will learn through lectures, seminars and group discussion.
You will develop a critical understanding of the relationships between research, policy and practice and how they are applied to different settings.
You will use work-based learning to tailor the course to suit your own specialist area of practice.
You will be assessed through a variety of approaches including assignments, presentations, portfolios and reports.
All tasks will be clearly explained in advance and assessment criteria, grade descriptors and marking schemes will be available for every assignment and thoroughly discussed in class.
You will not sit any exams.
You will learn from our exceptional team of warm and supportive staff
who use their active research to inform their theory, meaning that your studies
remain current and informed by contemporary issues.
We are extremely proud of our team and consider that it is our
unwavering student support which really sets us apart.
Throughout the course you will be supported by your guidance tutor, the
programme leader, and each of your module tutors.
You can rely upon constant
and consistent mentoring from your tutor with both personal and professional
issues.
We ensure that our support services are always accessible and offer
strong pastoral support to every student that wants it.
You will receive support and supervision during your dissertation
project, when we will match you with a tutor who specialises in your area of
interest.
This will allow you to draw on their relevant knowledge and
expertise.
The education team are dedicated to developing their own learning and
research, and are frequently published in education journals.
We also a an ITE team who are able to offer guidance on employment within the education
sector.
This a team run by staff who are teacher educators, operating in roles such
as training teachers to work in schools.
This environment gives you the opportunity to reflect on your learning
and discuss your findings with your peers, many of whom are from similar work
backgrounds and working towards the same career goals.
Technology-enhanced learning is used extensively across the course and
each module will have its own e-learning area.
This helps us to share learning
materials with you in a flexible way and allows you to revisit learning
materials in your own time.
It also enables you to have online discussions with
your fellow students to develop ideas.
You will be equipped with the ability to challenge
your personal and professional development, applying planning tools and career
advice through the UseMYAbility website.
If you are an international student you can also benefit from the
support of our Academic Language Skills Programmes (ALS).
The programmes will
run alongside your studies to help you develop your academic language and
communication skills within an Education context.
You will develop skills in collaborative working, discipline-specific
creativity and project management.
You will be encouraged to examine, compare
and contrast different world views.
You will examine key education theories and
concepts, and enrich your understanding of these through critical discussion
with your peers, colleagues and lecturers.
All of this will feed into your own independent research project towards
the end of the course, during which you can draw on our lecturers’ wide-ranging
expertise.
Our academic staff have extensive research experience in all areas of
education, from early years and schools to post-compulsory and higher
education.
Our areas of research strength include school-to-school networking
and collaboration, educational leadership, curriculum innovation, and the impact
of educational initiatives on marginalised and vulnerable groups.
You will graduate with knowledge of the very latest in education
research, policy and practice.
You will gain a whole new perspective on data
and evaluation, all of which will help to put you at the forefront of your
field.
You will also be able to reflect upon and challenge your own practice,
which is a valuable skill to demonstrate to future employers.
You will leave the course confident in your knowledge and abilities,
empowered to make change in your own organisation and ready to go to the next
level in your career.
TE7080 -
Leading Learning and Managing Change (Optional,30 Credits)
It is will provide the opportunity to consider and discuss effective ways of bringing about change and how to manage it.
It will enable you to explore key theories and ideas and then apply them to real school challenges, bringing into this the experience of headteachers in changing their schools and local authority personnel responsible for bringing about school turn around.
TE7083 -
Reflective Approaches to Teaching and Learning (Optional,30 Credits)
The module will take  you on a journey through the ideology that shapes the way in which education is both defined and organised and the theoretical dissonance between theories of learning and formal education.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/education-leadership-and-management-ma-dtpldt6:
If you already hold master’s level credits from a teaching subject such as a PGCE but are interested in progressing with your career to more senior or specialist roles, then this the perfect way to build on your existing credentials and offer something extra to employers.
You will also benefit from this course if you are from a corporate background, leading on staff training or looking to develop new structures of learning.
Modules will cover aspects of leadership and management in an educational setting such as strategic leadership and management, leading, learning and managing change and reflective approaches to teaching and learning.
The accessibility and approachability of our staff is paramount to the MA Education suite.
Our unique and dedicated approach to student support truly sets us apart, we will build your confidence and offer unwavering support.
All our staff are currently employed in the education sector, giving you access to their practical experience.
If you have any queries then please do contact our programme leader who can answer any questions on an individual basis.
Response may not be immediate but please be assured that you will receive a reply; irenie.lowry@northumbria.ac.uk
Visit an Open Day to really get an inside view of what it's like to study the MA Education (Leadership and Management) at Northumbria.
Speak to staff and students from the course and discover your funding options.
You will learn from our exceptional team of warm and supportive staff who use their active research to inform their theory, meaning that your studies remain current and informed by contemporary issues.
We are extremely proud of our team and consider that it is our unwavering student support which really sets us apart from the rest.
Throughout the course you will be supported by your guidance tutor, the programme leader, and each of your module tutors.
You can rely upon constant and consistent mentoring from your tutor with both personal and professional issues.
We ensure that our support services are always accessible and offer strong pastoral support to every student that wants it.
You will receive support and supervision during your dissertation project, when we will match you with a tutor who specialises in your area of interest.
This will allow you to draw on their relevant knowledge and expertise.
The education team are dedicated to developing their own learning and research, and are frequently published in education journals.
We also have an ITE (Initial teacher education) team who are able to offer guidance on employment within the education sector.
This a team run by staff who are teacher educators, operating in roles such as training teachers to work in schools.
This environment gives you the opportunity to reflect on your learning and discuss your findings with your peers, many of whom are from similar work backgrounds and working towards the same career goals.
Technology-enhanced learning is used extensively across the course and each module will have its own e-learning area.
This helps us to share learning materials with you in a flexible way and allows you to revisit learning materials in your own time.
It also enables you to have online discussions with your fellow students to develop ideas.
You will be equipped with the ability to challenge your personal and professional development, applying planning tools and career advice through the UseMYAbility website.
If you are an international student you can also benefit from the support of our Academic Language Skills Programmes (ALS).
The programmes will run alongside your studies to help you develop your academic language and communication skills within an Education context.
You will examine key education theories and concepts, and enrich your understanding of these through critical discussion with your peers, colleagues and lecturers.
All of this will feed into your own independent research project towards the end of the course, during which you can draw on our lecturers’ wide-ranging expertise.
Our academic staff have extensive research experience in all areas of education, from early years and schools to post-compulsory and higher education.
Our areas of research strength include school-to-school networking and collaboration, educational leadership, curriculum innovation, and the impact of educational initiatives on marginalised and vulnerable groups.
You will graduate with knowledge of the very latest in education research, policy and practice.
You will gain a whole new perspective on data and evaluation, all of which will help to put you at the forefront of your field.
You will also be able to reflect upon and challenge your own practice, which is a valuable skill to demonstrate to future employers.
You will leave the course confident in your knowledge and abilities, empowered to make change in your own organisation and ready to go to the next level in your career.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ma-education-send-inclusion-dtfesn6:
This programme is designed to cater for a wide range of professionals in education and will offer you a great launch pad for the next step in your career.
The flexibility to choose from such a wide variety of modules mean you can prepare for the exact role you want.
You will learn from our exceptional team of warm and supportive staff who use their active research to inform their theory, meaning that your studies remain current and informed by contemporary issues.We are extremely proud of our team and consider that it is our unwavering student support which really sets us apart.
In the latest educational reform, the Special educational needs and disability code of practice: 0 to 25 years (2015), the government’s vision is that ‘the provision for children with special educational needs and disabilities is the same as for all children and young people; that they achieve well in their early years, at school and in college, and lead happy and fulfilled lives.’ This code supports the Equality Act (2010) and the TOBY SALT Report (2010) which indicated that equality and educational outcomes are reliant upon a teaching workforce that is prepared for the diversity of mainstream and special school classrooms.
With the Special education and Disability Regulations, there is now an increasing need for appropriate teacher training programmes that prepare teachers for the variety of needs that children and young people present with.
There is also a need for a continual professional development culture that maintains teachers’ knowledge and skills to keep up with the everchanging education contexts.
This postgraduate qualification will meet that agenda.
Be sure
to check out our other similar courses: MA Education
You will complete two compulsory 30-credit modules.
No Accreditation for Prior Learning (APL) or Accreditation for Prior Experiential Learning (APEL) is allowed on this programme.
This course offers you the flexibility of attaining the qualification without commitment to a full Masters, although the modules can also be taken as part of a Masters’ qualification.
Please note: if these modules are taken as part of any of our MA routes the PG Cert will not be awarded, to avoid double accreditation.
You will be presented with the opportunity to draw upon your workplace practice and to consider challenges and successes of inclusion with peers, exploring and critically evaluating your own and your organisation’s practice.
The key aim of the programme is to initiate rigorous critical enquiry and discourse to extend the criteria for judging taken-for-granted assumptions underlying SEND/Inclusion policy and practice.
You will develop an increasing respect for evidence and the capacity to lead change in your own practice within your professional context.
The assessment will engage you with challenges facing learners in your organisation, how these can be identified and addressed and the opportunity to apply these solutions in a targeted way in your practice.
You will draw upon education theory, research, policy, professional standards to develop such skills as collaboration and leadership as well as a deeper understanding of how change can impact on people.
These attributes are critical in the role of the SENCo, and to those tasked with the job of empowering others to embrace the responsibility to work inclusively and in collaboration with other stakeholders.
University attendance will be on a weekly basis and will comprise a mixture of teacher-led discussions, group and individual presentations and workshops.
In addition to tutorial support, your learning group will, in itself, form an important learning network.
We are extremely proud of our team and consider that it is our unwavering student support which really sets us apart.
You will be equipped with the ability to challenge your personal and professional development, applying planning tools and career advice through the UseMYAbility website.
Understanding Autism (Optional,30 Credits)
Behaviour in Autism and Facilitation of Learning (Optional,30 Credits)
TE7101 -
Contemporary Issues in Education (Optional,30 Credits)
On this module you will explore the following topics: •	Educational inclusion.
•	International perspectives in education.
•	UN Sustainable development goal 4 •	Policy development in education •	Accountability structures •	Beliefs, Cultures and Values

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/education-send-inclusion-ma-dtpesn6:
Modules will be taught across evening and day time classes and there is also the option for full-time study.
This means that it is possible to combine this course with an existing job or family life, depending on your modules.
The 2015 Special Educational Needs and Disability Code of Practice (DfE/DoH) outlines that all teachers must be teachers of pupils with SEND and are responsible for the progress of all learners in their class.
With an estimated 20 per cent of young people in school having special educational needs, it is essential that teachers have a working knowledge of current research in SEND and take ownership of being competent in this specialism.
On this course, you will learn to critically engage with current thinking and ideas about inclusive and specialist education.
Our excellent teaching staff will use their practical experience to develop your knowledge of specific learning difficulties, and support you in becoming a thoughtful practitioner who can apply wider research to inform your own practice.
You will gain a solid grounding in understanding a range of special needs across a variety of age groups.
Subjects include autism, dyslexia, social and emotional mental health issues and other, wide ranging modules.
The accessibility and approachability of our staff is paramount to our master’s programmes and our unique and dedicated approach to student support truly sets us apart.
You will have the choice of a full range of modules from across our different specialisms, allowing you to create a bespoke course that tailors exactly to your requirements.
Mode of Study 24 months Part Time 1 other options available

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ma-education-teaching-and-learning-dtftcl6:
This unique, bespoke learning programme means that you can tailor make your learning to your exact requirements, around other commitments such as a career or family life.
This stream of our MA Education suite is suited to those with an interest in working with learners in an educational setting, throughout the sector and educational contexts .
The accessibility and approachability of our staff is paramount to the MA Education suite and our unique and dedicated approach to student support truly sets us apart from other institutions, we will build your confidence and offer unwavering support.
All our staff are currently employed in education meaning that you are learning the most current knowledge which has been gained through hands on practical experience.
Modules for teaching and learning will let learners choose from a range of specialist modules which cover topics such as: managing the learning environment in the 21st century; technology enhanced learning; mentoring an coaching; leading learning and managing change and reflective approaches to teaching an learning
We are most interested in individual reasons for you interest and we would encourage you to apply if you have transferable skills from less traditional academic backgrounds, such as industry or even personal experience.
If you have any queries then please do contact our programme leader who can answer any queries or questions on a personal basis, response may not be immediate but please be assured that you will receive a reply; irenie.lowry@northumbria.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/education-teaching-and-learning-ma-dtptcl6:
Modules for teaching and learning will let learners choose from a range of specialist modules which cover topics such as: managing the learning environment in the 21st century; technology enhanced learning; mentoring and coaching; leading, learning and managing change.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/education-ma-dtfect6:
This flexible Education postgraduate course will give you the opportunity to continue your professional development by exploring a diverse range of educational modules.
Why study a Masters in Education?
If you are interested in progressing in your career to more senior or specialist roles, then this is the perfect way to build on your existing credentials and to offer something extra to employers.
You will be supported by a diverse and extremely well qualified range of research-active staff.
The accessibility and approachability of our staff is paramount to the MA Education suite and our unique and dedicated approach to student support truly sets us apart.
We work hard to build your confidence and offer unwavering support.
All our staff are currently employed in Education, giving you access to the most up to date knowledge, gained through practical experience.
You can choose from our wide ranging, comprehensive modules to make sure that your learning meets your exact requirements.
This unique, bespoke learning programme means that it can be possible to fit your study around other commitments, such as a career or family life.
We expect applications from those already working in a variety of roles, across the education sector and education contexts.
The wide selection of multi-disciplinary modules on this Masters degree in Education will prepare you with all of the specialist knowledge that you need to up-skill and take your career to the next level.
This Education Masters is relevant to all educational sectors and contexts, from schools to further and higher education.
Research supported by critical enquiry and discourse will extend, develop and enhance your ability to analyse, evaluate and judge the underlying assumptions surrounding educational policy and practice.
This course is offered as the core to our MA Education degree suite, if you are interested in focusing on a particular area then you may wish to graduate with a bracketed specialism.
Look at our MA Education Leadership and Management degree if you are keen to develop your skills in a business or corporate context, Special educational needs and disability for those looking to work with vulnerable learners and Teaching and Learning for those working in an educational setting such as a school or college.
If you have any queries then please do contact our programme leader who can answer any queries or questions on an individual basis, response may not be immediate but please be assured that you will receive a reply; irenie.lowry@northumbria.ac.uk
TE7033 -
Teaching Pupils with SpLD Dyslexia: Theory into Practice (Optional,30 Credits)
This module will enable you to design, deliver and evaluate individualised teaching programmes to meet the specific needs of pupils with dyslexia that you assessed in the first module.
TE7044 -
Curriculum Development (Optional,30 Credits)
This includes reflection on the curriculum leader’s role in creating a vision and climate in the school or other educational establishment, on which there is a strong focus on learning, where new ideas about teaching, the curriculum and continuing staff development are taken seriously, together with a commitment to monitoring, evaluation and review of practice.
The module will also provide you with a framework for examining the influence and impact on institutional culture and climate on curriculum development.
TE7073 -
Academic Recognition for Continuing Professional Development (Optional,30 Credits)
The module will enable you to gain academic credit from your CPD, such as short courses, conferences, workshops, one-to one coaching etc.
which is not currently credit-rated by the University.
Many people working in both the public and private sector undertake continuing professional development (CPD) as part of their work, either on a voluntary or compulsory basis.
Often this is required for membership of their relevant professional body or it can be simply through a desire to keep abreast of developments in their field of work.
You will negotiate a learning proposal which identifies the areas that you would like to develop and the learning activities that you will need to undertake to meet your development needs.
In addition, your learning proposal will include consideration of how you will reflect upon your learning and how you will report this for assessment and will also include an Action Plan/Timeline for completion.
You will attend a learning event or events lasting the equivalent of at least nine days/72 hours.
You will participate in the event(s) in whatever way is appropriate and intended by the organisers.
You will produce a portfolio to provide evidence of the learning gained from your experiences.
You will evaluate your learning and reflect upon it with respect to your current and future personal development needs.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/education-ma-dtpect6:
If you are interested in progressing with your career to more senior or specialist roles, then this is the perfect way to build on your existing credentials and to offer something extra to employers.
This unique learning programme means that it can be possible to fit your study around other commitments, such as a career or family life.
We expect applications from those already working in a variety of roles, across the education sector and in various  education contexts.
The wide selection of multi-disciplinary modules on this MA will prepare you with all of the specialist knowledge that you need to up-skill and take your career to the next level.
The accessibility and approachability of our staff is paramount to the MA Education suite, our unique and dedicated approach to student support truly sets us apart from the rest.
We work hard to build your confidence and offer unwavering support from the outset.
All our staff are currently employed in Education, and you are able to learn through their hands-on experience.
This Education MA is relevant to all educational sectors and contexts, from schools to further and higher education.
This course is offered as the core to our MA Education suite.
If you are interested in focusing on a particular area then you may wish to graduate with a bracketed specialism, with each stream available as both part-time and full-time options
Look at our MA Education Leadership and Management if you are keen to develop your skills in a business or corporate context, Special Educational Needs and Disability (SEND) for those looking to work with vulnerable learners and Teaching and Learning, for those working in an educational setting such as a school or college.
If you have any queries then please do contact our programme leader who can answer any queries or questions on an individual basis, response may not be immediate but please be assured that you will receive a reply; irenie.lowry@northumbria.ac.uk
TE7034 -
The Theory and Practice of Identification and Assessment (Optional,30 Credits)
In this module you will develop learn about: •	the main causal theories of dyslexia •	how to identify and assess individual pupils with SpLD (dyslexia) using a variety of formal and informal assessment techniques e.g.
observation, standardised tests, criterion referenced tests •	how to write reports for other professionals

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/beng-hons-electrical-and-electronic-engineering-extended-degree-uusxeg1:
From mobile phones to missile defence systems and
all digital electronics in between, electrical and electronic engineers play a
crucial role in the development of anything that requires a plug or battery.
Accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET), the BEng Electrical and Electronic Engineering course will provide you with all of the skills and knowledge required to pursue a career in this diverse industry.
Thanks to the recovering economy and advancements in technology, graduates are in high demand globally meaning there has never been a better time to enter the industry.
Over 94% of students studying Electrical and Electronic Engineering at Northumbria felt they had chance to explore ideas and concepts in depth and believed the course positively challenged them to achieve their best work (NSS, 2025).
Electrical and Electronic Engineering at Northumbria is ranked top 10 in the UK for overall Student Experience (Times Good University Guide, 2025)
Accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as an Incorporated Engineer and partly meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
It includes a foundation year where you will enhance your knowledge and skills of core mathematics as well as of core physics and electrical engineering principles.
During your foundation year, you will develop fundamental research skills and independent learning skills through specialised and research-informed modules.
You will build a broad range of mathematical and scientific competences addressing real-world problems and develop key employability skills that will prove invaluable when you enter the workplace.
Delivered in industry-leading facilities by our highly experienced team, you will be supported at every step to ensure an enjoyable experience that will enhance your learning and future employment prospects.
UCAS Code Z024
Department Mathematics, Physics and Electrical Engineering
Find out more about our department, facilities and partnerships.
See our range of specialist and general use equipment
Explore electronic technologies
NUSTEM
Inspiring with Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths
This course will teach you about all aspects of electrical and electronic engineering, with a focus on engineering mathematics, programming and practical skills as well as the fundamentals of electrical, electronics and energy systems.
You will have the opportunity to tailor your learning to your own interests and career aspirations.
Learning is delivered via a range of methods such as lectures, seminars and laboratory-based sessions, with assessments undertaken in the form of seminar work, laboratory exercises, online tests, assignments, technical reports, presentations and project work.
An optional one-year placement is encouraged during your studies to help enhance your industry experience and employability.
We also have strong links with the Erasmus Exchange Scheme, which provides opportunities for students to undertake study in another European university.
Northumbria University is a pioneer in renewable energy technology and your course will be taught by our specialist team of academics who integrate their uniquely informed industry-leading research into all areas of their teaching.
Our staff specialise in a broad range of subject areas, from computer programming to wireless communication systems.
Being able to tailor your module options in the final year of your course will allow you to closely align yourself with academics in your key interest areas, allowing you to learn from the industry-leaders of your chosen field.
All of our teaching team will be on-hand throughout every step of your degree, providing guidance and support to ensure you graduate confident and ready to enter into employment or further study.
Neil Beattie
Neil Beattie is a professor of Energy innovation in the the Department of Mathematics, Physics and Electrical Engineering.
Dr Haimeng Wu
Dr Haimeng Wu is an Assistant Professor in MPEE, having joined in 2020.
Dr Linzi Dodd
Dr Linzi E.
Dodd is an Assistant Professor in MPEE, having joined in October 2017.
Dr Prashant Agrawal
Dr Prashant Agrawal is an Assistant Professor in MPEE.
Dr Matteo Sommacal
Dr Michael Elsdon
Throughout the duration of your degree you will have access to Northumbria University’s leading facilities.
You will also be able to utilise our state-of-the-art Electrical and Electronics Lab, where you can gain practical experience of universal signal generators and measurement equipment.
You will also gain experience of using the National Instruments Educational Laboratory Virtual Instrumentation Suite (NI ELVIS) to measure and control signal voltages.
All of your course’s supporting documentation will be available on our e-Learning Portal, Blackboard, which is accessible at all times.
This enables you to support your own learning and self-development.
The Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering has modern laboratory and computing resources for learning, teaching, research, innovation and business engagement.
Electrical and Electronics Lab
Gain practical experience using an oscilloscope and the National Instruments Educational Laboratory Virtual Instrumentation Suite.
New & Renewable Energy Lab
This lab is closely connected to our research work looking into Power networks, Wind energy, Photovoltaics and Electric vehicle battery testing.
Optical Comms Lab
In this laboratory you will use a variety of high quality, industry-standard equipment, such as lasers and optical fibre to perform experiments.
Smart Materials and Surfaces Lab
This bespoke laboratory provides a broad spectrum of research between materials such as liquids, solids and gases.
New Ultimaker 3D Printer facilities
Supporting more experimentation and achieving greater end results with increased reliability.
At Northumbria your learning will be enhanced through the contact with research-active Electrical and Electronic staff as well as our strong research groups throughout the modules and research projects.
This BEng Electrical and Electronic Engineering course has been constructed based on their subject knowledge and the original research they have undertaken at both national and international levels.
This learning contributes to an outstanding student experience, whilst supporting research and underpinning successful partnerships and collaborative working with external organisations.
Read more about our research .
From statistics to complex and nonlinear phenomena, astrophysics to smart materials, and communications to renewable energy, the pioneering research in the Department of Mathematics, Physics and Electrical Engineering focuses on a wide range of issues.
Electrical Power & Control Systems
The group carries out research and development in grid integration of renewable energy sources, electric vehicles and more.
Optical Comms Research Group
The Optical Comms Research Group (OCRG) specialises in visible light comms, non-linear control systems & optical sensor research.
Renewable Energy Tech & Materials
Our research is focused on the development and improvements of providing low carbon and renewable energy.
Smart Materials & Surfaces Lab
Our research includes investigations into how surfaces can shape liquids, reduce drag and how forces can manipulate droplets.
Northumbria's Electrical and Electronic Engineering course will equip you with all of the skills, knowledge and practical experience to progress your future career.
You will leave with a strong understanding of electrical and electronic engineering, alongside the technical, analytical and practical skills required to work within this industry.
Undertaking an optional placement year will also further enhance your employment prospects, providing you with experience of a real working environment.
You will have the opportunity to tailor your learning to specialise in your own area of interests, whether this be electronics, communications or power.
This will prepare you for employment across a range of sectors thanks to the broad range of subjects studied.
Previous graduates have gone on to work for companies such as Intel, Motorola, Siemens and Triumph.
This course’s accreditation with the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) will enable to you meet the academic requirement for registration as an Incorporated Engineer.
You may also wish to continue with further study.
Completion of this course will allow you to partially meet the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer, with further study and work opportunities available should you wish to complete this accreditation in full.
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Electrical and Electronic Engineering.
KL3004 -
Applications of Physics (Core,20 Credits)
This module will introduce you to key physics topics through a range of industrial and practical contexts.
The contexts will include space technology and astrophysics, medical applications including bioengineering and non-invasive testing, music, renewable energy technologies, geophysics and the history of physics.
The physics topics studied in this module are: - waves and oscillations including reflection, refraction, polarisation, stationary waves, simple harmonic motion and damping.
- material properties including flow of liquids and viscosity, properties of materials and Young modulus - particle and nuclear physics including the structure of the atom, radioactive decay, nuclear fusion and fission, luminosity of stars and blackbody radiators.
- nature of light including wave-particle duality, photoelectric effect, photovoltaic cells, absorption and emission spectra, and energy levels
KL3005 -
Introduction to Logic and Algorithms (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will explore the principles of mathematical logic, proof techniques, and basic algorithms of discrete mathematics and number theory.
You will learn about such concepts as: •	Fundamental proof techniques, including induction, contradiction, and contrapositive.
•	A formal language for mathematical statements, enabling compact, precise notation and its translation to natural language.
•	How to interpret mathematical statements unambiguously and implement them as algorithms.
•	Practical application of these concepts using Python and the interactive Jupyter Notebook interface.
•	Techniques for numerical and symbolic computations, as well as data analysis and visualization in Python.
By completing this module, you will develop foundational knowledge that is valuable in itself and will serve as the foundation in mathematics and physics.
This knowledge will also underpin applications in fields such as software and electrical engineering, where mathematical logic is crucial.
For applied problem-solving, researchers often transition between descriptive, mathematical, numerical, and programming languages.
Mastering mathematical logic and algorithms provides an essential framework for these translations, serving as a powerful tool for problem-solving and proof composition.
KL3008 -
Foundation Trigonometry and Calculus (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about basic calculus such as graphs and equations of common functions, including trigonometric functions.
The module further shows you how these mathematical concepts can be used in a variety of ways to help you in understanding and solving physical problems.
You will learn the below highlighted topics which is indicative rather than prescriptive: 1.
You will learn to use of Pythagoras’ Theorem.
Calculation of areas and volumes of common solids 2.
You will learn to use Cartesian coordinates and simple coordinate geometry.
Linear graphs.
You will learn to use the derivative related to the rate of change.
Differentiation of standard functions.
The second derivative.
Maximum and minimum values of a function.
You will learn integration as the inverse of differentiation.
Integration of standard functions.
Area and definite integrals.
You will learn measurement of angles: degrees and radians.
Right angled triangles: Pythagoras’ Theorem.
Definition of sine, cosine, and tangent in a right angled triangle.
Application problems.
Graphs of sine and cosine functions over one cycle.
Sine and cosine rules.
You will learn the definition of secant, cosecant, cotangent.
Arc length and sector area.
Definition of sine and cosine as co-ordinates on a unit circle (of angles in all quadrants).
Graphs of sine, cosine, and tangent to emphasise their periodic nature.
General solution to elementary trigonometric equations.
Phase angle.
Use of standard trigonometrical identities (Pythagorean, compound angle, double angle), in manipulation of expressions and their use in solving trigonometrical equations.
KL3011 -
Foundation Algebra and Statistics (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about elementary algebra and statistics necessary to embark on a mathematics or physics degree.
You will learn the below highlighted topics which is indicative rather than prescriptive: ALGEBRA: You will learn: • arithmetical operations on signed numbers: addition, subtraction, multiplication, division and exponentiation.
• square roots.
Fractions.
Removing brackets.
The order of operations.
• substitution and evaluation of algebraic expressions.
• plotting linear and quadratic functions.
• simplification of algebraic expressions, removing brackets.
• multiplication of polynomials.
• exponents - including negative and fraction exponents.
• factorising expressions including quadratics, difference of squares.
• addition, subtraction, multiplication and division of algebraic fractions.
• solution of linear and quadratic equations - including simultaneous equations.
• the exponential and log functions.
• arithmetic and geometric sequences and series.
• the binomial series.
STATISTICS: You will learn • representation of various types of data.
• frequency distributions: histogram, frequency polygon.
• cumulative frequency, cumulative frequency polygon.
• the mean, the mode, median.
• range, mean deviation, variance, standard deviation.
KL3012 -
Principles of Electricity (Core,20 Credits)
This module will introduce you to the fundamental principles of electricity.
You will learn about the application of electrical circuits analysis theory to solve electrical problems, such as resistor networks, voltage dividers, RC circuits and rectifiers.
You will consider Ohm’s Law, Joule’s Law and Kirchhoff’s law extensively to assist your understanding of electrical circuit analysis.
You will learn about the basic concepts and application principles of DC circuits.
Topics include terms and symbols, basic electrical and electronic components/devices, electrical measurement instruments and the laws of DC circuits, including series and parallel connections.
You will cover how Ohm’s law and Joule’s law are used to calculate the power supply of batteries and power consumption of resistors.
You will also learn about A.C.
circuits including topics like safety, terms and symbols, sine waves, AC electrical theory and AC measurement instruments.
You will understand about Digital logic circuits and numbering systems: These topics include principles of NOT/AND/OR/XOR gates, terms and symbols, combinational gates, Boolean expression, truth table and circuit schematics.
These topics are foundations for the generation and use of electricity in a range of applications.
KL3013 -
Introduction to Mechanics and Energy (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about the principles of mechanics such as the concepts of rigid body, degrees of freedom, displacement, velocity, acceleration, linear momentum, standard constant acceleration equations, motion under gravity, vectors motion of a projectile, moments, couples, addition of forces, Newton’s Theory of Gravitation, angular momentum, equilibrium, free body diagrams and friction.
You will explore the principles of energy transfer, including work and power (including electrical energy), conservation of energy; and thermal physics including ideal gases, specific heat capacity and latent heat capacity, conduction, convection and radiation.
The module will provide an opportunity for enhancing your study skills: you will learn how to achieve effective learning, working in groups and managing time.
You will also be engaging with the theoretical knowledge through experimental work by learning to record observations concisely, produce diagrammatic information and graphical data representation as part of this module.
KC4010 -
This course will introduce and delve into the following maths concepts Basic algebra and trigonometry This course develops the foundational mathematics skills and language set that underpin analytical sciences.
This will include the transposition and manipulation of algebraic expressions, the notion of functions and the basics of trigonometry Basic calculus We will define the derivative, how one quantity can change with respect to another, and learn how to compute these.
We will also encounter the integral, related to areas and averages, and tackle computations involving these Complex numbers This course introduces complex numbers, important in electrical engineering and beyond, and teaches students about their property, their algebra and how these numbers can be understood geometrically.
Further Calculus Further into the course, we will build upon our understanding of calculus with more advanced methods, introducing partial differentiation for functions of multiple variables, as well as more advanced integral techniques to simplify complex problems.
Matrices and Vectors A fundamental aspect of modern computing, we will define what vectors and matrices are and how one can undertake computations involving these and their special properties.
We will demonstrate how large systems of equations can be formulated as matrix-vector problems, making them far easier to solve.
Differential Equations A cornerstone of modern physics, we will learn how to identify and solve differential equations by several techniques.
We will also encounter the wave equation, which underpins a great number of applications, and learn methods as to how it can be solved and understood.
KD4008 -
Computer Programming (Core,20 Credits)
Within this module you will cover the design and development of C based code for both a standard PC and an embedded system.
The module syllabus us based but not exclusively on the following: • Introduction of computer systems, the architecture and types from standard PCs to embedded systems, • Code development from specifications through Pseudo code to a top-down or bottom-up based design, • Language operators for example, if-then-else, switch-case, do-while, for, • Data types for systems including bit length, and data pointer structures and use, • Use of information hiding in functions, with strongly typed designs, • File system access for a PC and for an embedded system where files may be more abstract handles, • Controlling hardware on an embedded system for example and ADC or DAC on a microcontroller, • The use of IO lines and interrupt structures in low level programming.
Typically learning in the module will be based on simple case studies and example such that the above knowledge can be applied to solve a real world problem within a defined engineering context.
An example of such a real-world problem would be a Traffic Light controller, or Home Burglar Alarm system.
KD4009 -
Digital Electronics and Communications (Core,20 Credits)
The students will gain fundamental knowledge as follows: Within the digital electronics aspect of this module the student will learn The operation of logic gates AND,NAND,OR,NOR,XOR.
The use of truth tables and logic gates to solve combinational logic problems.
Boolean algebra and the use of Boolean algebra to simplify logic expressions prior to implementation.
The use of Karnaugh maps to simplify logic expressions prior to implementation.
Implementation of adders/subtractors using logic gates.
Using logic gates to implement S-R flip flop, J-K flip flop and D-type flip flop.
Using flip flops to develop asynchronous counters and shift registers.
Within the communication aspects of this module the student will learn Typical types of communication techniques Characteristics of analogue signals, their time- and frequency-domain representations Importance of bandwidth Characteristics of digital signals, frequency domain representation of digital signals Evaluation of basic transmission performance in communications Signal conversion techniques on communications Analog and digital modulation Encoding Multiplexing In addition to the gained knowledge, the students will apply this knowledge to analyse and design digital electronics circuits and communication systems.
The design of analysis aspects will be targeted especially in the laboratory sessions.
KD4010 -
Electricity, Magnetism and Electronics (Core,20 Credits)
This module will introduce you to fundamental electromagnetism, electrical circuit theory and analogue electronics.
Through a combination of lectures, labs and technology-enhanced resources, you will learn to analyse basic DC and AC circuits and to familiarise with fundamental electronic components such as operational amplifiers and semiconductor diodes.
This module will provide you with core knowledge, and experimental, numerical and analytical skills to tackle problems in electrical and electronic principles, thus establishing firm foundations for future employability.
Electricity and Magnetism (25%) Electrostatics: Coulomb's law of electrostatic forces, superposition of electrostatic forces  and the electric field, electric flux, Gauss’s law and its applications to calculate electric field associated with the continuous charge distributions; Concept of electric potential and its relation to the electric field; Energy stored in an electric field; Introduction to magnetostatics.
DC and AC Circuit Theory (50%) Introduction to ideal linear elements: resistor, inductor and capacitor.
Transient currents across ideal elements.
Current and voltage division rule.
Applications of superposition: Kirchhoff’s law.
Properties of sinusoidal and periodic waveforms, average, RMS values.
Phasors and phasor diagrams, and j operator.
Complex impedance, impedance diagrams.
Applications to series circuits.
Power in AC circuits, power factor, apparent power, active power, and reactive power.
Complex admittance and applications to parallel circuits.
An introduction to series and parallel RLC circuits.
Analogue Electronics (25%) Introduction to the properties of an ideal operational amplifier.
Simple inverting and non-inverting applications using virtual earth principles.
Properties and parameters of a non-ideal op-amplifier including gain-bandwidth.
Op-amplifier applications including summing, integrator and differentiator.
KD4011 -
Fundamentals of Energy Systems (Core,20 Credits)
This is a project-oriented design-based learning module, which introduces you to the fundamental concepts of energy systems.
The underlying concepts aligning with electrical engineering are illustrated using examples from electricity generation, transmission, distribution, consumption and storage.
Focus is given to develop unique design skills over a wide range of scenarios.
Basics of Electrical and Electronic Engineering Voltage, current, power and energy.
Conservation of energy.
Basic electromagnetism.
Electric charge: conductors, insulators and semiconductors.
Electric field.
Electrostatic potential energy and potential.
Magnetic field and magnetic flux density.
Electromagnetic induction: Faraday’s law and Lenz’s law.
Electric generator.
Electric and Magnetic Circuits.
Basics of electric motors and generators.
Three phase power and power electronic devices Production of three-phase power.
Phase and line voltages and currents in star and delta systems.
Measurements of three-phase power.
Introduction to single-phase transformer: principle, construction, referring of impedances, losses and efficiency, and equivalent circuit.
Transformer Connections (Autotransformers and three-phase transformers).
Overview of power electronics: Rectifiers and inverters for renewable energy integration Power generation, energy efficiency and energy storage Overview of conventional power generation system: gas and coal-fired power stations, combined heat and power, IGCC, nuclear power.
Loads: different types of loads, load curve and load factor.
Fundamentals of power transmission and distribution.
Fundamentals of wind energy and solar energy conversion systems.
Energy storage technologies.
KD4014 -
Research, Analysis and Presentation (Core,20 Credits)
This module aims to introduce you to gathering research data from either laboratory or reference material, analysing the acquired data in an appropriate manner and then presenting the key findings.
Formal training in experimental techniques acquired in this module will support your professional and personal skills.
Research You will learn about methods to conduct research methods based on an open-ended research question provided by the tutors.
You will learn: where and how to gather information, which can be applied to generate solutions to real world problems.
The ability to select from a number of research methods is important, for example, the ability to research a method to design simple laboratory tests.
Analysis Correct use of units and symbols for physics and engineering along with the use of data analysis techniques.
Specific techniques may include, for example, mean and standard deviation, simple regressive techniques, log-log and log-linear relationships, and error analysis.
Simple measurement techniques may include, for example, measuring velocity, voltage, current and power.
Key factors in measurement include the need to analyse the accuracy, errors, resolution and the need for calibration.
You will be introduced to suitable computational packages for data analysis and processing in physics and engineering.
Presentation You will develop key communication skills in report writing, laboratory book writing (of laboratory data), and the presentation of information both visually (via graphs and diagrams) and using text.
You will develop skills in processing information, for example, highlighting key findings and drawing suitable conclusions from a piece of work, and presenting the information in both written and oral format.
Group work Communicating and working effectively in teams is a highly sought-after skill by employers.
While working in a group with other students, you will develop skills in communication and project management.
You will be responsible for managing individual tasks while ensuring completion of the group tasks.
You will also be introduced to tools to keep track of your professional development throughout your programme
KL5001 -
Academic Language Skills for Mathematics, Physics and Electrical Engineering (Core – for International and EU students only,0 Credits)
KC5002 -
Advanced Engineering Mathematics (Core,20 Credits)
This module is designed to provide you with two key concepts in Mathematics: Laplace Transforms and periodic functions.
You will learn their use in solving ordinary differential equations arising from real world physical problems, and their use in describing the behaviour of simple control systems.
The concept of the harmonic components of a periodic waveform will be introduced to you and be shown how this is useful in matching general solutions of partial differential equations to particular boundary or initial conditions.
The solution of systems of linear ordinary differential equations using matrix methods will also be considered.
Outline Syllabus Laplace Transforms: Definition, simple transforms, linearity.
First shift theorem.
Inverse transforms, linearity, use of the first shift theorem and partial fractions.
Transforms of derivatives.
Transforms of an integral.
The Heaviside Unit Step function.
The second shift theorem.
Solution of linear ordinary differential equations with constant coefficients, including systems of such equations.
The Delta function and the Impulse Response function; transfer function.
Initial and final-value theorems.
Convolution and the convolution theorem.
Poles of the transfer function and stability.
Steady-state response.
(50%) Periodic functions and Fourier series: Full-range and half-range series, even and odd functions and coefficients in complex form.
Application to the solution of partial differential equations by the method of separation of variables.
(25%) Matrices, eigenvalues and eigenvectors: Algebraic evaluation of the eigenvalues and eigenvectors of a matrix, application to the solution of a system of linear ordinary differential equations.
(25%) The module will be delivered using a combination of lectures and seminars.
Assessment is by formal examination.
KD5064 -
Analogue Electronics and Instrumentation (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn on module key technical content around two themes that of analogue electronics and instrumentation.
These are important topics for electrical engineering covering the key basics of analogue design and the use of analogue signals used in instrumentation.
Amplifiers and signal conditioning devices will be covered that convert the sensor output into usable signals for typical process control platforms.
Operational amplifiers will be used extensively in the module, leading up to an understanding of discrete electronic transistor design.
Operational Amplifiers - Operational amplifier applications applied to instrumentation signals, active filter circuits, and instrumentation amplifiers.
Filter considerations including magnitude and phase bode diagrams, and compensation methods.
Sensors - Temperature, strain and light sensor systems looking into devices and signals.
Additional sensors considered may also include slot encoders, accelerometers and hall-effect devices.
Instrumentation - Amplifiers and signal conditioning demonstrates the ability for signal conversion and used in real world environments.
Operational amplifiers will be expanded upon with the design of the instrumentation amplifier to highlight the performance improvements.
Noise analysis will be introduced to show how instrumentation techniques reduce this phenomenon.
Discrete Electronics - Operational amplifiers are made from discrete elements; these building blocks will be explained include the Bipolar Junction Transistors (BJTs) and the Field Effect Transistor (FET).
Transistor applications may include current sources, current sinks, and differential input stages.
KD5065 -
C Programming and Digital Systems (Core,20 Credits)
This module aims to further develop your capabilities in the areas of digital systems, building on the hardware and software design and development techniques covered in previous related module(s).
In the Hardware Description Language (HDL) section, you learn about technology and architecture.
The concept of HDL as a tool to simulate, design and document digital systems is introduced and you will learn how to design, specify, and apply digital combinational and sequential building blocks in isolation, and as part of a larger system.
Then the module introduces an industry standard HDL known as Verilog, and shows how it can be used to describe, at the gate and logic expression level, digital building blocks such as decoders, multiplexers, encoders, shift registers and counters.
During the course, you are given the opportunity to explore designs by means of simulation using industry standard design tools from raw Verilog code to the simulation state.
You will learn how the HDL code is used for actual low-level hardware design implementation and they will also cover other practical aspects of digital hardware design, such as logic hazards, propagation delays and interfacing with other digital modules.
You will also cover techniques and tools that help you with developing your Verilog code including: 1-	K-map simplification 2-	Timing analysis 3-	Synthesizable vs non-synthesizable code 4-	Finite state machine (FSM) and state diagram 5-	Writing testbench for verification 6-	Code reuse and IP blocks This part of the module comes with a set of workshops specifically arranged to teach you how to use designated tools for simulation and programming a FPGA device.
In the Programming Language section, you will learn about the architecture of microcontrollers and concept of embedded systems.
ARM-based microcontroller as well as various ARM-compatible operating systems will be introduced.
You will learn about different types of compilers and toolchain, and they will use the C++ language to program an ARM platform to program hardware to perform high-level tasks such as IO port access, serial connection, memory management, FSM, and string manipulation.
An overview of C++ language will be given to you and advanced topics such as pointer and classes in C++ are taught.
Controlling peripherals such as analogue to digital converter (ADC), ad digital to analogue converter (DAC), is introduced as well as data communication protocols such as I2C, and SPI.
you will learn how to communicate with a PC application through a serial wired connection.
The IoT technology and cloud services for microcontroller platforms are also introduced.
This part of the module comes with a set of workshops specifically arranged to teach you how to use designated tools for simulation and programming an ARM platform.
KD5066 -
Communication Systems (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about electronic communications.
You will learn fundamental techniques that are used in communication systems for sending information between two devices.
You will learn a number of techniques that are used in modern day communication systems to transfer information both via a physical connection such as a cable and also via a wireless connection.
Two of the key themes of electronic communications that you will study  are Analogue communication and Digital communication.
In both themes you will learn a number of key engineering processes that are fundamental to communications.
In analogue communications you will learn the key physical and electronic processes necessary to transfer information in an analogue form.
You will also explore current technologies and techniques in radio and satellite communications.
In the digital communications topic, the knowledge that you learn in analogue communications will be expanded to a higher level to allow you to understand the key requirements for digital communication.
We will examine how communication techniques have evolved over the years to allow users to transfer vast amounts of information at ever increasing speeds.
Three key areas within these two topics are identified: ANALOGUE COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS Amplitude Modulation; comparison of various forms of AM, demodulation, frequency and phase insertion errors, examples and applications.
Frequency modulation; NBFM, WBFM, spectra and bandwidth, examples and applications.
Transmission and reception circuits.
Attenuation in radio systems.
Modern systems and standards.
DIGITAL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS Spectra of rectangular waveforms, bit rates, baud rates and relationship to bandwidth.
line codes and shaping.
ASK, FSK, PSK, generation and demodulation, spectrum and bandwidth.
Comparison of bandwidth and power.
Quadrature carrier systems.
OSI reference model.
Asynchronous and synchronous communications.
The serial data link.
Protocols.
FDM and TDM multiplexing.
Parity and CRC principles and implementation.
Networks.
IP addressing OPTICAL SYSTEMS Optical sources; structure, performance and frequency response.
Detectors.
Fibres; modes, dispersion, optimum wavelength, coupling and splicing.
KD5067 -
Power Machine and Renewable Energy (Core,20 Credits)
This module aims to introduce you  to the principles of operation of power systems, and enhance your knowledge of electrical machinery, power electronics and renewable energy.
It will also allow you to consider the interaction between these system components.
A power network typically integrates power generators, distribution grid, transformers, transmission lines, and loads.
This module provides you with an introduction to power system structure, and the principles of electrical machines.
Moreover, low-carbon energy sources have increasingly contributed to the current power network, and power electronics play a key role in energy conversion.
Therefore, the module also provides you with an introduction to renewable energy, and power electronics.
Specifically, you will learn the following from this module: POWER SYSTEMS (30%): Principles and construction of single-phase transformers, equivalent circuits, efficiency and regulation, open and short circuit tests, connections of 3-phase transformers, and vector groups.
Basics of powers, and power flow.
Per unit systems and fundamentals of balanced fault level calculations.
ELECTRIC MACHINES (30%): Principles and construction of DC machines,  equivalent circuit, starting and speed control.
Principles and construction of induction machines, expressions for speed of rotating field and slip, rotor power balance, torque-slip curve, and modern control techniques.
POWER ELECTRONICS  (20%): Fundamentals of power electronics and converters (AC-DC, DC-DC, and AC-AC etc.), and PWM control.
RENEWABLE ENERGY (20%): Application of the knowledge of power systems, power electronics and power machines to a variety of renewable systems, such as hydro, photovoltaics, wind, combined heat and power, fuel cells, tidal and marine power plants, and illustration of their operating principles, types, characteristics and comparisons.
Overview of electricity generation technologies from new and renewable energy, current contributions and future prospects.
fored heat and power, fuel cells, tidal and marine power plants.
KD5080 -
Electrical Product Development (Core,20 Credits)
This module provides you with the knowledge and skills required to research, design, implement and manage the development of an electrical/electronic product.
Specifically, you will learn: •	Systems level approach to product design and development.
•	The use of online databases to search for patents and research current market trends.
•	Project management and the use of Gantt charts.
•	Project specification development, project design, electronic/electrical and mechanical design.
•	Use of simulation tools, PCB design and rapid prototyping.
•	Design analysis and selection, design for manufacturing, product life cycle and product costing.
•	Standards and legal issues: market and technical risk assessment, intellectual property, product end of life considerations.
•	Ethical aspects, social aspects, and environmental aspects of electrical/electronic engineering product development.
•	Communication skills: Pitching technical ideas to general and technical audience.
•	Engineering report writing, style, citation tools and content.
•	Tracking and managing your professional skill development.
KL5006 -
KL5007 -
KL5008 -
Work placement semester (Optional,60 Credits)
This module operates within a partnership between the University, employer and yourself, and provides you with the opportunity to develop core competencies and employability skills relevant to your programme of study in a work based environment.
You will be able to use the placement experience to develop and enhance appropriate areas of your knowledge and understanding, your intellectual and professional skills, and your personal value attributes, relevant to your programme of study, within the appropriate working environments.
KL5009 -
MPEE - Study Abroad Semester (Optional,60 Credits)
KD6010 -
Power Systems (Optional,20 Credits)
This module aims to develop your knowledge, understanding and the ability to analyse the components of a modern power system.
It allows you to study the components and operation of power systems, highlighting the principles, design, control, performance limits and protection from abnormal conditions.
The theory, control and the properties of alternators, transmission lines, switchgear and protection will also be covered.
Commercial issues surrounding the economics of power generation, electricity market and quality of supply are also explored.
This module also gives you the opportunity to critically analyse and develop an understanding of practical design and implementation issues, such as load flow, fault and stability studies together with methods for voltage and frequency control, including the use of modern FACTS technologies.
These and other topics will be reinforced by using real-world examples and case studies, with emphasis on the use of modern technologies in power systems.
KD6024 -
Individual Engineering Project (40 Credits)
The module aims to provide you with an opportunity to carry out an extended study in a specific area of Engineering, developing your ability to work independently and promoting self-reliance.
Guidance on how to source and assess the appropriateness of information is provided to you by the module tutor.
A key aim is to encourage you to apply theoretical and analytical techniques to problem solve.
The module also aims to develop both verbal and written communication skills.
The project will provide practical experience of drawing up a project specification defining aims, objectives and identifying an envisaged endpoint.
With the supervisor’s guidance, you will prepare a project plan that includes a Gantt chart, project background and sourcing previous work and associated theory/simulation to assess whether the aims and objectives are achievable and that your theoretical basis is sound.
To meet University requirements and gain practical experience, you must perform a risk assessment to identify potential risks/hazards associated with the project.
You will follow the defined plan to complete the project that will involve the application of appropriate theory and simulations leading to the production of prototype designs.
You will be encouraged to monitor your progress based upon the project plan and complete the design cycle by testing and redesign, if necessary.
A final project report and verbal/poster presentation to the supervisor, second markers and peers are required towards the end of the module.
You must maintain contact with the supervisor on a regular basis to discuss/assess progress and obtain advice.
As a part of developing employability skills throughout the programme, you will continue to update and record your professional development.
KD6025 -
Design and Manufacturing Analysis (Core,20 Credits)
This module aims to provide you with an analytical approach to the issues around both the design and manufacturing of electronic or electrical products.
In this respect you have two clear sections, linked by an analysis approach to determine functionality within the bounds of manufacturability.
Design Analysis • Operational amplifier construction with a view to component reduction and therefore performance degradation.
Analysis is therefore required to pinpoint the performance of sub-optimal designs with suitable engineering compromises being found.
• Differential amplifier structures as applied to Instrumentation design, is explored with mathematical rigor to establish their fundamental performance limits.
• Circuit design (typically filters) with consideration of the circuit performance when non-ideal components are used.
• Other complex analysis methods are introduced including: Sensitivity analysis, Tolerance analysis, and Monticarlo analysis.
Manufacturing Analysis 1.
Electronics Manufacturing Yield - the performance of electronic yield predictions, with typical examples provided from Integrated Circuit Manufacture.
Reliability in Electronics Manufacturing - electronic reliability under the factors of cost, performance availability 3.
Waste Management in Electronic Components - green electronic issues and legislation which affect both electronic product design and manufacturing aspects, 4.
Lean Manufacturing - in manufacturing technology illustrating the philosophy of lean manufacturing
KD6026 -
Digital Signal Processing Systems (Core,20 Credits)
This module aims to make use of the knowledge and analytic skills developed throughout the programme to design modern digital signal processing systems.
In this module you will learn: • The fundamental concepts of discrete-time signals and systems.
• The fundamental mathematical transforms for time-domain and frequency domain representations.
• The design of digital filters; finite impulse filter and infinite impulse filter.
• The practical implementation of digital filters in simulation and hardware.
KD6029 -
Wireless and RF Systems Design (Optional,20 Credits)
This module aims to further develop your skills in electronic communications with specific reference to key techniques that are used in radio frequency (RF) communications.
You will be exposed to the theory, design and analysis of all key aspects of RF and wireless communication systems.
All wireless communication systems consists of two key areas, namely high frequency circuit design and antenna design.
Within high frequency circuit design you will learn how to modify the performance of RF signals and will cover the key concepts of microwave circuit design for wireless and RF systems.
Once the RF signal has been generated, it must then be converted to a signal that can be transmitted through air.
This is the second key concept and will be covered in the second part of the module – namely antenna design and propagation.
The antenna design section covers the key principles of transmitting an RF signal through free space.
The antenna design topic also examines the key concepts of antenna design related to modern communication systems, including mobile telephone systems from 1G to 5G.
A further key part of any mobile communication device is the interaction between circuit design and antenna design and will also be covered in this module.
For Microwave circuit design typical topics include: Transmission Line Basics, Smith Chart, Impedance Matching techniques, Lumped Elements, Impedance / Admittance parameters, ABCD parameters , S-parameters, Passive microwave circuits.
For Antenna design typical topics include: Basic antenna parameters, outline of antenna types, wires, apertures, dishes, patch antennas, antennas required for mobile systems, Structure of Cellular systems.
Base station design, Typical RF transmitter layout, Antenna types for mobile handset and base stations.
Factors affecting reception.
KD6030 -
Optical Communications System Design (Optional,20 Credits)
The module will provide the knowledge and skills for you in two key themes of optical fibre and optical wireless communications.
These are essential topics in electrical and electronics engineering programme that cover the fundamentals and advanced optical system designs in both fibre and wireless systems.
Optical fibre communications provides the backbone for long-haul and medium range telecommunications that offers ultrahigh data transmission capacity whereas optical wireless communications is an emerging technology that enables data transmission via light, either in infrared or visible light band using laser and/or light emitting diode (LED) for indoor and short range communications system.
Through the module syllabus you will learn: Fundamental optical fibre/wireless communications includes - Introduction to the optical wire/wireless communications system and the overall design - Identification of system elements, subsystems and required specifications - Optical transmitter design, optical propagation channel, effect on the optical fibre, effect on the optical wireless channel, noise and losses, optical receiver design.
System design includes: multiple access techniques, system design and performance evaluation, analysis of the practical and industrial optical communications system
KD6031 -
Instrumentation and Control of Dynamical Systems (Optional,20 Credits)
This module shows you how to use modern control design techniques based on state-space differential equations governing a dynamical system.
You will also cover instrumentation techniques that are required for practical implementation of control algorithms.
Upon completion of the module, you will be able to design instrumentation and control systems; implement and evaluate them using relevant software packages.
There are two main themes: Control: •	Conventional and modern control design and analysis •	Description of dynamic control systems using differential equations, transfer functions, and state-space representation.
•	Control system analysis, including dynamic responses of systems, stability and controllability of systems.
•	Control system design, including design via open- and closed-loop systems, state and output feedback controls •	Analysis and design of digital systems.
•	Use of software packages for simulation of control systems.
Instrumentation: •	Range, span, nonlinearity, hysteresis, resolution, ageing effects.
•	Dynamic modelling of sensors using transfer functions and state-space methods.
•	Signal conditioning: loading effects, bridge circuits, correction of non-linearity, effects of feedback, amplifier limitations.
•	Noise and interference in instrumentation systems and estimation of errors.
•	Signal recovery from noise interference.
•	Computerised data acquisition systems including ADCs and a range of modern instrumentation protocols.
•	Use software packages for simulation of instrumentation systems.
KL6068 -
Satellite Systems and Space Environment (Optional,20 Credits)
The module provides students with skills and knowledge to develop scientific and/or electronic systems for space applications.
The topics covered are: The space environment - launch, orbits, rocket equation, drag, radiation, vacuum, thermal gradients.
Satellite systems and system development for space applications - radio communication, ground stations and link budgets, solar power, data processing, Earth observation, optimisation of systems for space, materials choice for space, component characteristics, mechanical and thermal testing.
Product Acceptance and Qualification Assurance for space – industry standards for space-worthy design, functional testing, simulation of operations, verification and validation processes.
Environmental Testing – theory and practice of vibration testing, resonant sweeps, shock tests and random noise tests.
Theory and practice of thermal vacuum testing, the effect of vacuum on electronics and thermal cycling.
Theory and practice of radiation testing, how radiation effects electronics, how to design to be radiation tolerant, and testing components in the x-ray irradiator.
KL6069 -
Smart Energy System (Optional,20 Credits)
This module provides a lab-based group project to develop more design and practical skills for a final year of an undergraduate degree programme in electrical and electronic discipline.
You will learn a wide range of extensive knowledge of electronic engineering subjects through undertaking the project, including on the microprocessor-based control system, internet of things (IoT), power conversion, and battery energy storage.
You will be motivated to explore problems in real-world applications of electronics and address challenges using the developed skills.
This module will build on the skills acquired through previous study and gain some new knowledge to extend the practical experience of the students into the following areas: • IoT cloud - based structure using microprocessors • Modelling, Design and control of simple power DC-DC converter • Battery charging/discharging and management techniques (e.g.
state-of-charge and state-of-health estimation) • Solar electric power generation • Maximum power point tracking techniques • DC motor drive and control • Advanced programming

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/beng-hons-electrical-and-electronic-engineering-uuseeg1:
UCAS Code H601
Brighter, cheaper blue light could revolutionise screen technology.
Northumbria academic helps develop contact lens that can detect glaucoma.
Northumbria academic receives award for research breakthrough.
Northumbria to host Isaac Newton Institute Satellite Programme event.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/meng-hons-electrical-and-electronic-engineering-uusmge1:
An electrical and electronic engineer has the ability and knowledge to use principles of science and mathematics to create new products that enhance and improve quality of life across the world.
This integrated master’s course will give you an extra edge in today’s competitive job market.
The MEng Electrical and Electronic Engineering course will allow you to explore this subject in greater depth, with a specialised final year that leads to a master of engineering qualification.
See other similar courses you may be interested in: BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering .
Super Satisfaction - Electrical and Electronic Engineering at Northumbria is ranked top 10 in the UK for overall Student Experience (Times Good University Guide, 2025).
Internationally Recognised Research - Engineering is ranked 25th for research power in the UK out of 89 submissions (REF, 2021).
Accredited Degree -Accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
UCAS Code H605
You will be given an in-depth understanding of this subject before spending your final year broadening your knowledge of mathematics and management, in addition to deepening your knowledge in your chosen discipline.
Learning is delivered via a range of methods such as lectures, seminars and laboratory-based sessions.
Assessments are primarily undertaken in the form of exams, in addition to assignments or laboratory work.
Thanks to our accreditation with the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET), this course’s content has been cohesively designed to satisfy the expectation of this industry and fully meet the academic requirements for Chartered Engineer status.
Being able to tailor your module options in your course will allow you to closely align yourself with academics in with key specialisms, allowing you to learn from the industry-leaders of your field.
Throughout the duration of your degree you will have access to Northumbria University’s leading facilities .
You will also be able to utilise our state-of-the-art Electrical and Electronics Lab, where you can gain practical experience of high-spec signal generators and dedicated measurement equipment.
This MEng Electrical and Electronic Engineering course has been constructed based on their subject knowledge and the original research they have undertaken at both national and international levels.
You will associate to a research group to learn and accelerate your research skills.
Read more about our research.
This course will prepare you for employment across a range of sectors thanks to the broad range of subjects studied.
This course’s accreditation with the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) will enable to you meet the academic requirement for registration as an Incorporated Engineer, in addition to ensuring you have completed your first step on the path to becoming a Chartered Engineer, an accreditation that will give you access to additional global job opportunities.
This course will equip you with all of the skills, knowledge and practical experience to progress your future career.
You
will leave with a strong understanding of electrical and electronic
engineering, alongside the technical, analytical and practical skills
required to work within this industry.
Employability skills are
embedded throughout all areas of this degree, with a key emphasis on
communicating ideas cohesively in oral and written formats, IT skills,
time management, problem solving and independent learning.
The
MEng Electrical and Electronic degree is highly valued by employers
thanks to our accreditation with the Institution of Engineering and
Technology (IET).
KC7047 -
Applied Engineering Statistics (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will develop and apply the statistical techniques required for the analysis and modelling of engineering systems.
In the first half of the Semester the module is delivered through a series of lectures, with accompanying seminars, on requisite material, followed in the second half by assessed independent and group work associated with two case studies, assessed either by a PowerPoint or poster presentation.
You will receive on-going formative feedback during seminars in the first half of the semester, with both written and verbal feedback of their assessed work in the second half.
The two statistical modelling case studies will focus on regression analysis and time series, which are commonly required in engineering disciplines.
Outline Syllabus Mathematical modelling Modelling techniques, development, appraisal and modification.
(20%) Statistical methods Generalised linear and non linear models.
Curvilinear and non linear regression models.
Analysis of variance and linear logistic model.
Testing of model suitability.
(40%) Operational research and time series Time series characteristics.
Trends, moving averages and stationarity.
Autocorrelation and tests of randomness.
Queuing theory and its application.
(40%) Use of appropriate statistical software (e.g.
R).
KD7011 -
Wind Energy Conversion Systems (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will consider the current practices and technological advances in the design, control, mathematical modelling, and performance optimisation of modern Wind Energy Conversion Systems.
You will apply the necessary knowledge and gain understanding of the main concepts, methodologies, and future developments in this field.
The module syllabus includes, but is not limited to, the following topics: wind energy resource; operating principles, characteristics and types of wind turbines; commercial and emerging distributed wind generators; power electronic converter topologies for variable speed systems; turbine aero-dynamics; grid-connected and stand-alone applications; research and development aspects; environmental and social context and issues; regulations and standards; economics, employment opportunities etc.
KD7019 -
Advanced Embedded System Design Technology (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will cover the broad topic of Microprocessors and Microcontrollers and how they are used in Embedded Systems.
This will involve investigating processor architectures, operating modes and interfacing to peripherals.
Examples of structures from current industrial vendors such as ATMEL, ARM, and Microchip will be explored and examined.
You will consider the hardware design and development of embedded microcontroller systems, including implementations for controlling both internal and external interfaces and peripherals.
Careful examination of Real-Time control issues, interrupts and microcontroller interactions will be analysed.
This will allow you to be able to design the necessary hardware for microcontroller-based systems to meet a client’s specification.
To support the implementation of hardware designs software development of Embedded Microcontroller Systems will be employed looking at both low level assembly language/machine code programming through to C programming.
The techniques employed will cover code generation procedures, structured programming techniques, reusable library functions and top down/bottom up programming methods.
All these techniques will be applied case studies based upon industrial research activities.
Typical applications include: These will cover areas such as temperature monitoring, algorithmic techniques; message passing systems and communication protocols.
Microcontroller technology has a broad range of applications within industry and research environments.
Employing the use of a sophisticated ARM module exposes students to the diverse implementations, of such modules, and provides the key technical skills required by industry essential to modern digital and communication systems.
KD7020 -
Digital Design Automation (Optional,20 Credits)
This module aims to further develop your capabilities in the areas of digital systems by means of synthesizable register-transfer level (RTL) coding.
The module starts by introducing digital system design and an overview of Verilog language.
You will learn the implementation of both sequential and combinational circuits using Verilog as well as the concept of testbench and will learn how to apply the concept of testbench to real-world problems and how to simulate the real devices and digital components in your testbench.
Through examples, you also will learn about FSM and design hierarchy and the benefit of clean code in a project.
Further sections continue with the common design techniques, such as synchronisation reset, ping-pong operation, and cross clock domain design.
You will also learn techniques and tools that help you with developing your RTL codes including: 1-	Simulation 2-	Debugging 3-	FSM design tools 4-	Available standard library This part of the module comes with a set of workshops specifically arranged to teach you how to use designated tools for simulation and programming a FPGA device.
Another section of the module is devoted to programming FPGA using modern programming languages.
You will start by understanding SoC architectures and available modern programming languages for FPGA.
Then you will learn the fundamental requirements of using a modern programming language for FPGA programming such as commonly used keywords, libraries, packages, etc.
The structure of the modern programming language is covered and its implementing is then explained through several examples and you learn how to apply your acquired knowledge to real world problems.
You then will be briefly introduced to topics including digital signal processing (DSP), software defined radio (SDR), and their common and cutting-edge applications in daily life and industry.
KD7050 -
Photovoltaic System Technology (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module, you will learn about the principles of photovoltaic (PV) system, design, operation and application.
This will include consideration of the system components and the design and configuration of the solar array, together with examples of stand-alone, grid-connected and space applications.
The module will also help you to appreciate the critical issues relating to the implementation of photovoltaic systems.
The topics within the module syllabus include: • PV arrays and system components • Grid connected PV systems, including large scale and building integrated systems • Stand-alone PV systems and applications • Concentrator PV systems • PV arrays for satellite power supply • Monitoring and performance analysis • Operation and maintenance, system lifetime, standards and regulations
KD7051 -
Interdisciplinary Team Engineering Project (40 Credits)
This module provides you with the opportunity to take an integrated approach to the application of both your specialist and non-specialist knowledge and skills within an industrial or research-based project.
You will work in a team around a substantial interdisciplinary (e.g.
electrical, mechanical and control engineering, physicists, chemists) project involving the development of a product, from concept to design and fabrication through to critical evaluation and redesign.
This project will provide you with enhanced preparation for professional practice with diversity and inclusion within the workplace, as well as integrate technical expertise,  reflecting on the security implications and mitigations, with business, commercial, ethical and social concerns.
You will also have the opportunity to experience working across engineering/sciences disciplines, while developing team leadership attributes.
KD7063 -
Wireless Communication Systems (Optional,20 Credits)
This module aims to introduce you to the concepts, structure and organisation of wireless communications from a system point of view, thus illustrating the theoretical concepts and their application in practical scenarios.
Wireless communication systems including the old analogue as well all digital technologies based on the optical and radio frequencies will be introduced.
In addition, you will learn about the fundamental theoretical concepts for both radio and optical based wireless communications.
The module syllabus: • Communication Regulation: Regulating authorities; standards organisation; frequency spectrum, and power usage.
• Radio Communication: System and subsystem specifications for radio based communication including antennas and propagation mechanisms; cellular wireless systems, traffic engineering; noise and interference; noise factor and cascaded systems; wireless channel; link budget calculations; frequency re-use; GSM; multi-path propagation.
• Optical Wireless Communications: Including the concept of indoor optical wireless systems; diffused and line of sight links; optical channel characteristics; noise sources; and optical path link budgets.
• Digital Communication: M-ary modulation and demodulation; coherent and non-coherent systems; signalling space and constellation diagrams; BER performance of different modulation formats; matched filter detection.
• Multiplexing and Multiple Access: TDM, FDM, TDMLA, FDMA and CDMA.
The syllabus will allow you to understand and pursue careers of communication system design and deployment within the telecommunications industry.
This module together with other modules such as the high level system design and high level digital / analogue circuit design will give you the skills and expertise required within the telecommunications and computer network industries, as well as preparing you to do further studies in the this and relevant fields.
KD7064 -
Optical Communications System (Optional,20 Credits)
The module will provide you with the knowledge and skills in system design around two key themes of optical fibre and optical wireless communications.
These are essential topics for modern telecommunications and cover advanced optical system designs as well as including industrial standards in both fibre and wireless systems.
Optical fibre communications provides the backbone long-haul and medium range telecommunications that offers ultrahigh data transmission capacity whereas optical wireless communications is an emerging technology.
This technology enables data transmission, either in the infrared or visible light bands, employing lasers or light emitting diodes (LED) for indoor and short range communications system.
The module syllabus covers the technical analysis of optical fibre and wireless communications both at a system and sub-system level.
Performance calculations and design considerations are covered, specifically in the areas of optical transmitters and receivers, Careful examination of performance limiters will be defined and methods to offset them will be explored and analysed for optimum design.
These limiters include such effects as modulation, noise, dispersion, modal transmission, multipath effects, diffusion, fog, turbulence, smoke etc.
System performance is developed and explored to maximise the capability of a communication channel covering such aspects as link budgets, multiplexing techniques, BER analysis etc.
allowing the performance criteria being characterised to meet a system specification With these developed skills and knowledge you will be able to undertake the design and analysis of a complex optical communication system, making judicial choices and improvements.
KD7066 -
Analogue Electronic Design (Optional,20 Credits)
Within this module you will learn some of the key design and development skills needed for analogue electronics.
The module will run through a number of fundamental building blocks of circuit design to enable you to design and develop from a high level abstraction in circuit design.
The module supports this learning though the use of specific tools mixed in with key design theory along with practical lab based skills for the development and design of analogue circuitry using optimisation techniques.
Computer Aided Design (CAD) Experimentation based on the use and application of an industry standard CAD package (for example, OrCAD or Mentor Graphics).
Use of CAD tools to experiment with a number of circuit structures to derive their function and application inside of an abstract CAD environment.
Components, Bipolar device operation and modelling in association with passive components.
The design needs for the layout of components, including some of the key parameters needed for modelling inside a CAD environment.
Analogue Design Design of fundamental analogue cell structures, including switches, active resistors, current sources and current sinks.
The design of current mirrors from basic to more advanced supply voltage independent mirrors, and voltage and current references.
Integrated circuit level design of the building blocks of communications, for example, low noise amplifiers, mixers, phase locked loops and oscillators.
KD7068 -
Renewable Energy Technologies for Electricity Supply (Optional,20 Credits)
This module provides you with the opportunity to study the operation of the renewable energy technologies used for electricity generation, covering the aspects of resource assessment, operating characteristics, typical performance levels, economics, and environmental impact.
You will also consider the context of the use of renewable energy systems, including aspects relating to power electronics techniques with grid connection and enabling technologies in power processing and energy storage.
The module introduces you to all the renewable technologies that can be used to generate electricity, including solar, water, wind, geothermal and biomass technologies.
In addition, other type of renewable energy generation, power conversion and control techniques as well as energy storage technologies associated with the smart grids  (e.g.
electrical vehicles, power to hydrogen technologies etc) will be covered in this course module.
KD7069 -
Power Electronics and Drive Systems (Optional,20 Credits)
This module aims to provide you with thorough understanding and knowledge of existing and new concepts and technologies in electrical power engineering, and apply the knowledges on design and industrial applications of power electronics and electric motor drives.
You will cover the principles of advanced control techniques as applied to these systems.
The module is specifically concerned with the following subjects: power electronics devices and conventional converter topologies; pulse-width-modulation (PWM) techniques; state of the art practical switching power converters; power quality and harmonic analysis of various power conversion systems; power electronics control of renewable energy sources including solar, wind, and fuel-cell energy systems as well as electric and hybrid vehicles; electric machines and drives fundamentals; space-vector theory, control and applications of DC and AC drives; vector and field-oriented control of high performance induction and synchronous motor drives; applications and efficiency of electric drives; regulations, standards and other professional issues.
KD7070 -
Smart Grids (Optional,20 Credits)
This module aims to deepen your understanding, knowledge and ability to study the existing electrical power distribution networks and to consider new concepts and technologies for future ‘smart grid’ power networks.
Emphasis will be given on the integration of renewable energy resources, electric vehicles, enabling technologies and the quality of supply.
The module also covers advanced power electronics controllers and ICT techniques as applied to the smart grid.
This module also gives you the opportunity to critically analyse and develop an understanding of practical design and implementation issues, such as, quality of supply, cost considerations, regulations and standards.
It explores the role of the built environment in the whole energy system, with a focus on the integration of renewables, demand response and static/mobile energy storage.
You will develop skills in modelling, evaluation, and qualitative discussions of results, by applying your knowledge to develop techno-economic models of realistic case studies.
Topics covered will be reinforced by using real-world examples, case studies, and laboratory experiments.
Published papers and simulations will be uploaded on eLearning portal to provide a good experience for students to see where the proposed algorithms/methods can be effectively applied.
KL7022 -
Engineering Technology Management (Core,20 Credits)
In this module students will learn about Strategic Management, Project Management including Project Definition and its links to Project Success through the Management of Risk as well as Planning and Control of projects.
Students will learn about management techniques and professional issues associated with relevant industry and society.
They will enhance their critical reflection, analysis and other transferable skills which will aid their studies and support their career progression after graduating.
In addition, students will consider the role of ethics in delivering a Business Strategy and in their role as a manager.
The Learning and Teaching strategy will engage students with lectures and online resources, much guided and independent reading about theory and practice as well as seminars where they will develop and improve their abilities and skills through reflection, discussion, and argument.
The assessment will seek to move students from passive gatherers of knowledge to active participants in management decision making.
Through the process they will refine and improve their own approaches to solving management problems in the subject disciplines.
Students are required to critically analyse the management environment and to propose solution based on the module theory.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-electrical-power-engineering-dtfepn6:
This program continually has a very high pass and student satisfaction rate, leading to numerous Ph.D.
studies and employment.
You will develop cross-discipline skills through multidisciplinary group work and an individual dissertation.
You will learn essential skills such as information research, project planning and management, cost analysis, and budgeting.
You will be actively involved within the Faculty Research Seminars, where you can broaden awareness and views across different research areas.
You’ll benefit from the University’s excellent facilities that include specialist electrical and electronics laboratory resources.
Northumbria has a well-established reputation for producing graduates who can apply their knowledge to generate creative solutions for sustainable electrical power systems.
On successfully completing the program, you will gain an understanding and comprehensive knowledge of current practice and new technological developments.
This full-time MSc Electrical Power Engineering program is also offered as a 240 credit two-year full-time program.
Accredited
by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) on behalf of the
Engineering Council as meeting the requirements for Further Learning for
registration as a Chartered Engineer.
Candidates must hold a CEng accredited
BEng/BSc (Hons) undergraduate first degree to fully meet the CEng registration
educational requirements.Courses such as the BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering are perfect to get you started on your journey to a Masters
See
other similar courses you may be interested in: Engineering Management MSc
Mode of Study 12 months Full Time 2 other options available
Northumbria student named one of the UK’s top 30 young engineers
Cobham-Ultra UK Scholarships
Our research-rich teaching involves a combination of informed lectures, seminars, computer-based workshops, and/or laboratory sessions.
Real-life case studies and guest lectures from industry and/or academia may also be used to enhance your learning activities.
Taught time per semester is typically a maximum of 12 hours per week, with class time occurring anytime between 9 am - 6 pm, Monday through Friday (exact timetables will be finalised in early September).
As this is a master’s course there is a significant element of independent learning and self-motivated reflection.
Specific assessment methods include assignments, exams, technical reports and presentations.
The quality of their research has put Northumbria University among the UK’s top 25% of universities for the percentage of research outputs in engineering that are ranked as world-leading or internationally excellent (Research Excellence Framework 2014).
Our industrial links help inform our curriculums and ensure a variety of site visits and input from practitioners via guest lectures.
Dr Ian Forbes
Dr Jing Jiang
Dr Zhiwei Gao
Our New and Renewable Energy Laboratory is an excellent resource for research into power networks, wind energy, photovoltaics and battery testing for electric vehicles.
All our facilities are backed up by a team of technicians who will give support and advice when you need it.
To facilitate group projects there is a working space called The Hub that’s well equipped for meetings and working with IT.
Departmental Facilities
See our Virtual Tour
Throughout the course your learning will be directly impacted by the teaching team’s active research.
Our specialist interests include electrical and electronic engineering, mobile communication, microelectronic, renewable and sustainable energy technologies, and advanced materials.
Department Research
The group projects will provide experience of working with others while also raising your awareness of commercial considerations and how industry operates.
One project involves the development of an innovative product that must satisfy pre-determined criteria including a realistic business model.
Your dissertation can be linked to the University’s on-going research, giving you experience of being incorporated into a pre-existing working team and environment.
Alternatively you can undertake a practice-based dissertation that’s linked to a project that you’ve chosen for its relevance to your interests, self-development and career prospects.
When it comes to applying for jobs our Careers and Employment Service offers resources and support that will help you find roles matching your interests and skills.
You will be able to access a range of workshops, one-to-one advice, and networking opportunities.
You could also undertake a postgraduate research degree such as an MPhil, PhD and Professional Doctorate.
View all student profiles
Indra Teja Vadium
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree in Electrical Engineering with a focus on Electrical Power.
Wind Energy Conversion Systems (Core,20 Credits)
Photovoltaic System Technology (Core,20 Credits)
KD7065 -
MSc Engineering Project (Core,60 Credits)
This module allows you to engender a spirit of enquiry and thirst for knowledge into a practical or theoretical dissertation.
It includes aspects of information research, retrieval and critical appraisal; research enquiry based upon practical and theoretical skills development and critical discussion and appraisal of results; and an opportunity to compose a thesis or research style paper and to deliver a technical presentation on the project.
This module aims to make use of the knowledge and analytic skills developed throughout the programme to provide solutions to real-world industrial and research problems.
In this module you will develop: •	Critical thinking on current engineering practices and their limitations, and exposure to state of the art technologies.
•	Independent problem solving skills to develop and propose solutions to fundamental and subtle problems.
•	An understanding and appreciation for the need and application of ethics within research and the wider society, and apply this in the context of the Engineering project undertaken.
•	Project management skills to organise and plan tasks with clear objectives, outcomes and timescales, and analyse the true “cost” in order to achieve project outcomes.
•	Key technical writing and presentation skills to a professional standard expected by both industry and academia.
These will provide a professional base from which you will be able to identify and use key knowledge, objectives, theories and techniques, plan and cost in order to bid, for funding, for future industrial and research projects.
A key requirement of a professional engineer.
Renewable Energy Technologies for Electricity Supply (Core,20 Credits)
Power Electronics and Drive Systems (Core,20 Credits)
Smart Grids (Core,20 Credits)
KL7003 -

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/electrical-power-engineering-with-advanced-practice-dtseen6:
Are you interested in working in the electrical power engineering and renewable energy sectors?
This course will give you a thorough understanding of power electronics, electric drive systems, smart grids, wind power, photovoltaic and other distributed generation systems.
It also meets the academic requirements of the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET), by whom it is fully accredited.
On successfully completing the program, you will gain an understanding and comprehensive knowledge of current practice and new technological developments.Candidates must hold a CEng accredited BEng/BSc (Hons) undergraduate first degree to fully meet the CEng registration educational requirements.
In the second year, for one semester, you’ll  study in another country or join a research group.
Mode of Study 2 years Full Time (with Advanced Practice in the second year) 2 other options available
Hear about Indra's experience of MSc Electrical Power Engineering at Northumbria University.
A two-year master’s course, like this one, will carry particular weight with employers.
KL7014 -

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/electrical-power-engineering-msc-ft-dtfepz6:
On successfully completing the program, you will gain an understanding and comprehensive knowledge of current practice and new technological developments.Candidates
must hold a CEng accredited BEng/BSc (Hons) undergraduate first degree to fully
meet the CEng registration educational requirements.
Mode of Study 18 months Full Time 2 other options available
You’ll undertake a practical or theoretical master’s dissertation that will hone your skills in evaluating and applying research techniques and methodologies.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/master-of-science-engineering-management-with-advanced-practice-dtsemd6:
The Engineering Management MSc course has been specifically designed to allow you to update, extend and deepen your understanding of engineering and management.
You will build on your current knowledge of subjects such as solid modelling and prototyping, computer aided design and engineering data analysis, whilst developing management and entrepreneurial skills that will enhance your career opportunities within engineering and the broader business environment.
During your second year of study you will have the opportunity to work in a group consultancy project, positioned in an area of relevance to the programme.
This advanced practice will enrich your learning experience and gives you hands on, practical experience in order to help you stand out to employers*.
If you take this option, you will be assigned to our Engineering, Physics and Materials Research Group.
With the increasing complexity of the engineering sector there is a requirement for engineering managers to be specialised not just in engineering, but also in wider business and management.
This Engineering Management MSc has been specifically designed to meet the demands of today’s employers and provide a solid foundation for you to progress to management level.
Accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) on behalf of the Engineering Council as the course meets the requirements for Further Learning for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
Candidates must hold a CEng accredited BEng/BSc (Hons) undergraduate first degree to comply with full CEng registration requirements.
Discover our residences
There are many different reasons to choose to study at Northumbria but we got Alice, Reza and Jasmine to narrow it down to just three reasons each on why they wanted to come study here.
City Life
Student Life at Northumbria
The Hub
Social Wall
#IAmNorthumbria
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it’s like to study Engineering Management.
The structure of this Engineering Management Masters has been designed to focus on engineering issues and processes, and how they apply to those in management positions.
This course incorporates six taught modules: research methods, project, programme, and portfolio management; project change, risk, and opportunities management; technology entrepreneurship and product development; engineering management data analysis and sustainable development for engineering practitioners.
Throughout the duration of this course, you will build core skills in key areas such as management, business, finance, and computing, providing you with a strong understanding of the day-to-day processes that underpin the smooth running of a successful organisation.
This Engineering Management MSc is primarily delivered by lectures and supporting seminars such as guided laboratory workshops or staffed tutorials.
Assessments are undertaken in the form of exams, assignments, technical reports, presentations, and project work.
The Advanced Practice semester will be assessed via a report and presentation about your internship, study abroad or research group activities.
On completion of all taught modules, you will undertake a substantial piece of research around a subject of particular interest to you and your own career aspirations.
Here what it is really like to study our Engineering Management MSc from our current students.
Anna Jackson
Gnana Durbha
Samidah Anand
You’ll be taught by tutors who have many years of experience in the various aspects of the engineering industry.
The quality of their research has ranked Northumbria University in the top 25 in the UK for the research power in engineering, with 90% of research outputs being rated as world-leading or internationally excellent (Research Excellence Framework 2021).
As well as Nissan, the region’s #1 company, there is a strong concentration of automotive, engineering, chemicals, construction, and manufacturing companies.
View all teaching staff profiles here .
Staff Profiles
Dr Shaun Shen
Stephen Akinlabi
Martin Birkett
Roger Penlington
Throughout the duration of your course, you will have access to our dedicated engineering laboratories that are continuously updated to reflect real-time industry practice.
Our facilities include mechanical and energy systems experimentation labs, rapid product development and performance analysis, materials testing and characterisation, 3D digital design and manufacturing process performance.
You will be given the opportunity to get hands-on with testing, materials processing, moulding, thermal analysis, and 3D rapid manufacture to help you create the products and systems required for the projects you will work on during your course.
Your learning journey will also be supported by technology such as discussion boards and video tutorials.
You will also participate in IT workshops where you will learn how to use the latest industry-standard software.
Videos of lectures will on many occasions be made available through Panopto video software to further support teaching delivery.
You will also have access to all Northumbria University’s state-of-the-art general learning facilities such as dedicated IT suites and learning areas.
The Department of Mechanical Engineering has modern laboratory and computing resources for learning, teaching, research, innovation and business engagement.
From designing the components and assessing the strength of materials to 3D printing and rapid prototyping skills, the knowledge I picked up on my Masters was vital to me kick-starting my career.
So many of the basics from the modules on my course, I still use every day in my work.
Samidha Anand
Take a Virtual Tour
When studying at Northumbria University you will be taught by our team of specialist staff who boast a wealth of multi-dimensional expertise.
The programme is designed to be research-led, delivering up-do-date teaching that is often based on current research undertaken by our team.
Our teaching team incorporates a dynamic mix of research-active industrial practitioners, renowned researchers and technologists, whose combined knowledge ensures you leave with an in-depth understanding of key engineering management practice and research.
You will be encouraged to undertake your own research–based learning, where you will evaluate and critique scientific papers and write research-based reports based on the information gathered.
Energy Materials and Systems
Peaks of Excellence
Engineering - REF 2021
Engineering News
With the increasing complexity of the engineering industry there is a requirement for managers to be specialised not just in engineering, but also the general business and management aspects of a company.
This Northumbria Engineering Management MSc has been specifically designed to allow you to update, extend and deepen your knowledge to further enhance your career opportunities in both industry and entrepreneurship.
A two-year master’s in Engineering Management, like this one, will carry particular weight with employers.
On completion of this course, you will possess a deep understanding of engineering data analysis, research and project management, programme and portfolio management, project risk management and technology entrepreneurship.
Industry practice and subject benchmarking have strongly influenced the design of this course to ensure you will leave equipped with the skills that are required by today’s employers.
This Engineering Management Masters also sets a solid foundation for those wishing to pursue further study or a career within research or teaching.
Our Graduate Futures team are there to help you throughout your studies and beyond.
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree in an engineering or science discipline.
Optional course texts - approximate cost £40-50 each, average c.£200-250 pa.
KB7053 -
KB7063 -
Technology Entrepreneurship and Product Development (Core,20 Credits)
This module relates the world of business and management to engineering design.
You will develop a business model that exploits an open-ended concept for the start of a small business based around the development of a product.
You will learn the importance of creative collaboration with your peers to develop these concepts and apply knowledge of engineering management principles within the context of commercial enterprise.
You will explore and evaluate the use of risk management tools and techniques to mitigate the effects of uncertainty associated with entrepreneurial activities and start-up businesses.
KB7065 -
Engineering Quality Management (Core,20 Credits)
You will be developed to obtain essential knowledge and skills in quality management, an important aspect of engineering management.
You will learn how to make sound decisions for quality management challenges through learning about and practising topics such as: quality definition; standards and frameworks; quality tools; quality in the supply chain and manufacturing systems.
You will also learn to practise planning and lean manufacturing principles, e,g, scheduling, benchmarking, inventory management systems and measures, 7 wastes; Just-in-Time tools (e.g.
Kanban).
KB7066 -
Engineering Finance (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about how an engineering organisation operates financially, short term management of projects and longer term strategic planning to enable responsible financial stability.
How an organisation may be created from intellectual property,  fund both day-to-day operations and finance development projects for long term growth whilst operating as a socially responsible organisation.
You will learn how to evaluate information relating to the commercial, financial and strategic objectives of an engineering company, for example, through statuary, commercial, promotional and technical publications.
Critical analysis will enable you to appraise the operation of the company against prevailing conditions within an engineering management context.
You will design solutions to complex problems which balance societal, user, business and customer needs within a framework of legal, professional, ethical, risk management and security needs.
KB7067 -
Engineering Management Data Analysis (Core,20 Credits)
Analysis of data is an important task in many disciplines.
Trends, correlation of variables, quality control and minimisation of hazardous events are some examples of application of data analysis.
You will learn to analyse a range of engineering management problems, and you will build appropriate probabilistic models to support and arrive at sound decisions for non-trivial problems with the aid of computer software tools.
You will learn about topics such as:   the application of mathematical techniques to engineering management data analysis problems,  modelling of parameters involving uncertainty using a range of probability density functions, e.g.
normal and beta distributions,  Probabilistic modelling of engineering problems using software tools,  integrating technicality into decision making support incorporating techno-economic, risk and other criteria,  justification for a defensible solution under uncertainty and multiple criteria and documentation, presenting options using technical data, arguments for justifiable and defensible solutions to nontrivial problems.
KB7068 -
You will learn to work both independently, and in a group environment, to develop knowledge, skills, and awareness essential to complex-problem-solving research and innovation in relevant engineering subjects.
You will learn through the practice of identification of need, research planning including research idea generation and proposal development.
You will learn to plan and carry research responsibly, assessing risks and constraints analysis in legislation, security, economics, energy, materials, equipment, health safety and environmental impact.
You will also learn to make appropriate choices when executing your research investigation, for example, developing essential skills in qualitative and quantitative research methods that can be employed to achieve your designed aims and objectives.
KB7056 -
KB7069 -
You will learn to work independently, perform systems thinking, and bring together your specialist knowledge and skills within a research and development project.
You will work with the guidance of a tutor to direct your learning and develop your abilities in areas such as project planning and management, detailed design of the proposed method, prototype fabrication or virtual system modelling and critical evaluation and identification of further developments.
You will be provided with the opportunity to demonstrate to potential future employers the breadth and depth of your ability by not only using your specialist abilities, but also through the demonstration of your planning, organisational and independent working skills.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-engineering-management-dtfemn6:
The MSc Engineering Management course has been specifically designed to allow you to update, extend and deepen your understanding of engineering and management.
This Engineering Management Masters has been specifically designed to meet the demands of today’s employers and provide a solid foundation for you to progress to management level.
The structure of this course has been designed to focus on engineering issues and processes, and how they apply to those in management positions.
This Engineering Management MSc incorporates six taught modules: research methods, project, programme, and portfolio management; project change, risk, and opportunities management; technology entrepreneurship and product development; engineering management data analysis and sustainable development for engineering practitioners.
This postgraduate engineering degree is primarily delivered by lectures and supporting seminars such as guided laboratory workshops or staffed tutorials.
This Engineering Management Masters has been specifically designed to allow you to update, extend and deepen your knowledge to further enhance your career opportunities in both industry and entrepreneurship.
This postgraduate engineering degree also sets a solid foundation for those wishing to pursue further study or a career within research or teaching.
Applicants from outside the European Economic Area (EEA) will need an ATAS certificate to enrol on this course.
Please visit www.gov.uk/guidance/academic-technology-approval-scheme for more information.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-engineering-management-dtfemi6:
Are you keen to develop your existing engineering skills and knowledge to Masters level?
Mode of Study 16 months Full Time
The structure of this Engineering Management MSc has been designed to focus on engineering issues and processes, and how they apply to those in management positions.
The Northumbria postgraduate engineering degree incorporates six taught modules: research methods, project, programme, and portfolio management; project change, risk, and opportunities management; technology entrepreneurship and product development; engineering management data analysis and sustainable development for engineering practitioners.
This Engineering Management Masters is primarily delivered by lectures and supporting seminars such as guided laboratory workshops or staffed tutorials.
View all teaching staff profiles here.
This Engineering Management MSc also sets a solid foundation for those wishing to pursue further study or a career within research or teaching.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-english-language-extended-degree-uusxan1:
Z040
4 years Full Time or 5 years with a placement (sandwich)/study abroad 1 other options available
Humanities
Ready to reveal what linguistic research can uncover about societies, past and present?
Eager to gain invaluable skills useful for a wide range of careers?
With a strong focus on your employability, our English Language degree gets you thinking in a sophisticated way about how language can be interpreted and used to understand human behaviour, psychology, and society.
Language and communication is an integral part of our everyday lives.
This course opens windows onto the rich variety of linguistics study, from animal communication and theories of politeness to the evolution of English across the globe.
Throughout, we emphasise that mastering the study of language can open many doors for you into the world of work.
See other similar courses you may be interested in : English Language and Literature , English Literature BA or discover all of our English Courses to find the one that suits you.
It includes a foundation year where you will explore a wide range of topics taken from across the real-world subject areas such as history, literature, language and linguistics, creative writing and American studies.
Immersed in a stimulating and challenging learning environment, in your foundation year you will explore a wide range of key areas, including history, literature, film, philosophy, and politics, as well as the digital humanities.
Teaching methods include lectures, workshops and seminars, guided study and self-directed learning.
You will learn to share ideas with your peers and work as a productive member of a team.
Guest speakers from across the humanities will put what you have learnt into context and give you a real-world perspective.
AD3007 -
Explorations in War and Conflict 1 (Core,20 Credits)
On this module, you will learn about several examples of war and conflict, including the English and Irish Civil Wars, the two world wars and the Shoah.
You will explore the multi-faceted way historians, writers, critics and artists have engaged with conflict, and work with a diverse range of sources and media on the subject of war and conflict to hone your analytical skills, historical and cultural understanding of war and conflict.
In the process, you will practice team-working and presentation skills, as well as traditional research and essay-writing skills.
AD3009 -
Exploring Identity (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will explore concepts and theories of identity.
You will engage with ideas of class, sexual difference, gender, racial and ethnic identity across the Humanities.
You will then apply these theoretical understandings of personal and collective identities, analysing and interpreting identity represented and embodied in textual, linguistic, visual, filmic, and televisual sources.
You will explore the ways in which notions of identity have evolved historically, and the ways in which particular identity groups have suffered exclusion and oppression.
AD3014 -
Humanities Portfolio: Skills for University (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will complete a released test and develop a 1500-word essay demonstrating and evidencing the broad range of academic, professional and transferable employability skills you have developed throughout the Foundation year.
These will include demonstrations of cogent academic prose, accurate academic citation, research skills, independent learning, oral presentation, and team work.
You will develop the skills required to complete these assignments throughout semester one, drawing on the content of the module’s lectures, workshops and seminars.
AD3034 -
Trigger-happy: The Language and Literature of Offence and Discrimination (Core,20 Credits)
This module challenges you to analyse the themes of ‘offence’, ‘discrimination’ and ‘censorship’ across the disciplines of English Language and Linguistics, Literature and Creative Writing.
From Shakespearean insults to the language of hip-hop, from banned books to non-standard language, this module explores the question of what is ‘offensive’ language and literature, and asks what responses, if any, offensive language and literature provoke in society?
Using theories drawn from language and linguistic study, and from critical and cultural theory, and through reference to a range of cultural forms – including drama, novels, poetry, pop music and ‘everyday discourse’ – this module interrogates the concept of offence from a variety of perspectives.
What is offence?
Why are certain terms, aspects of language-in-use, and texts deemed offensive?
How do ideas about what is offensive change over time and in different contexts?
In asking these questions, this module will provide you with an exciting opportunity to explore language, and a range of canonical and non-canonical texts, in relation to broader debates about what is deemed acceptable – and unacceptable – in language and literature at particular historical moments.
AD3035 -
Exploring the Culture and History of the North East (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will explore the history and culture of Newcastle and the North East.
As you explore you will learn to find scholarly resources that help you interpret the region’s past and culture.
At the same time you will learn how to evaluate primary and secondary sources whether they are buildings, books, or blogs.
Finally, you will learn how to create an archive of research so that you can develop your own meaningful accounts of the lives and events that have shaped the region.
The module will introduce you to some key people, places and periods in the history and culture of Newcastle and the North East, and you will also have the opportunity to investigate the region guided by your own specific interests.
AD3047 -
Public Humanities: Academic Research in the Wider World (Core,20 Credits)
This module showcases the wider applications of Humanities research outside of the academic sector, ensuring that students are aware of the potential uses and value of their university degree from the outset.
It achieves this by exploring just some of the many ways in which Humanities academics work with external groups and organisations in the wider world beyond universities.
In turn the module encourages students to reflect on the ways in which their degree offers a wide set of skills and approaches to learning that can be deployed in an enormous range of settings including: human resources; local councils; police, the NHS, the legal sector; government work and policy; cultural and heritage institutions; environmental agencies; the charitable and NGO sector; schools and education.
Whilst teaching students about the potential relevance and application of their degree in the widest sense, the module also helps students to refine their individual research interests and strengths by reflecting on, and developing, their own specific interests and skills whilst also working collaboratively on a bigger team project.
The module therefore prepares Humanities students for future undergraduate study and graduate careers by making clear the role of universities as outward-facing institutions, and providing an opportunity for students to explore future professional interests within a supported environment.
EL4007 -
Understanding English Grammar (Core,20 Credits)
We will begin by asking what language is and how it is organised.
What is it that we know when we know how to speak or write a language?
You will learn that language is systematically structured in various ways.
You will learn how, as linguists, we can uncover some of those structures by investigating patterns and regularities in the way language is used.
By examining everyday written and spoken language, you will learn about how language is organised, in terms of sounds (phonology), word forms (morphology), and sentence structures (syntax).
This module will introduce you to new ways of thinking about language and describing it.
The concepts and terminology that you will learn on this module will provide you with an important foundation for studying many other questions and issues in linguistics.
In addition, you will develop the ability to work independently as well as collaboratively with others.
These transferable skills will in turn contribute to your personal and professional development.
EL4008 -
Introduction to Language and Literature (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will be studying the dynamic connection between language and literature.
You will be introduced to the field of stylistics, which examines literary texts through linguistic analyses.
This module focuses on the discussion of how literary effects are created, and how they can be analysed through linguistic means.
You will study relevant linguistic theories and frameworks in this module, and will develop their abilities by applying linguistic theories to examine selected literary texts of differing genres.
In addition, you will have the opportunity to develop a number of transferable skills (e.g.
communication, presentation and group work) when studying literary and linguistic texts within a wide range of cultural, social and political contexts.
This will help develop your employability skills, as well as to improve your cultural awareness and intellectual openness.
EL4009 -
Approaches to Language Study (Core,20 Credits)
This module provides an introduction to the study of language.
It begins with a consideration of the nature of language including its origins and properties.
It then looks at the various levels of analysis open to the linguist starting with the sound of languages and how these are combined, moving on to words and sentences and then examining the construction of meaning.
The module also looks at how languages are acquired, how they are stored in the brain and how this knowledge is deployed in communication.
From a social point of view we will examine the factors that influence different varieties of a language at any point in time, and also how and why languages change and sometimes die.
While the focus will be on English, other languages will be used to illustrate the range of features that languages may incorporate.
EL4011 -
Doing Linguistics (Core,20 Credits)
This module will introduce you to linguistics as a science and to a variety of empirical research methods used by linguists.
You will learn to record and analyse linguistic data, design experiments, and use basic descriptive and inferential statistics.
You will also learn to locate and evaluate information, using printed and electronic media, and improve your IT, communication and team-working skills, which will directly contribute to your personal and professional development.
EL4012 -
Introduction to Discourse Analysis (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, students are introduced to the structure and dynamics of discourse as linguistic interaction.
Here the module will examine the linguistics and social conventions surrounding and governing text and talk.
As the module develops, students will go on to explore and analyse some of the discourses that shape our society: advertising, political discourse, legal discourse, medical discourse and educational discourse.
This will in turn enhance students’ employability prospects in areas such as advertising, publishing and marketing.
EL4013 -
Introduction to TESOL Classrooms (Core,20 Credits)
The module will introduce you to some of the key concepts and approaches in the English language teaching field.
Through a combination of tutor-led input, discussion and reflection upon your own learning experiences, you will develop an understanding of what ‘good learning and teaching’ might be and how teaching may vary with learners of varying levels of English.
You will learn about the different factors, internal and external, that influence language teaching and learning in the classroom.
‘Internal factors’ include individual differences such as age, aptitude, learner motivation, anxiety, and learning strategies; factors which are ‘external’ to the learner include the teacher, syllabus, teaching methodology, coursebook and so forth.
Over the course of the module, you will therefore explore the complexity inherent in an ELT classroom
AD5012 -
Humanities Study Abroad (40 credit) (Optional,40 Credits)
The Study Abroad module is a semester based 40 credit module which is available on degree courses which facilitate study abroad within the programme.
You will undertake a semester of study abroadat an approved partner University elsewhere.
EL5013 -
Language and Society (Core,20 Credits)
You will examine the social meaning of variation in language use and language perception through the critical evaluation of the main research themes in sociolinguistics.
As such, you will pay particular attention to historical, contemporary and emerging empirical research investigating social and regional linguistic variation in the UK and elsewhere; the relationship between language and identity, language and ethnicity, age, gender and social class; the investigation and implications of public attitudes towards linguistic diversity, the conscious and unconscious linguistic choices speakers make in specific contexts, and the development and identification of speech communities; and stylistic variation in language use.
You will also pay particular attention to current issues and debates within the field, again in terms of the findings of key empirical research investigating socio-psychological and contextual perspectives to the study of sociolinguistics.
Throughout the module, you will evaluate the many varied perspectives regarding the role of language in society which you encounter, and establish your own view of and position within these debates, developing your ability to present your own viewpoint, both in speech and in writing.
EL5014 -
History of English (Core,20 Credits)
This module will place Present-day English in an historical context, examining some of the diachronic processes which have shaped the Present-day language.
You will learn what earlier forms of English look like, how they differ from Present-day English and how to interpret evidence for language change.
The main focus of the module will be on how and why English changes during its history.
We will examine the role that speakers play in shaping the language by situating changes within their social context.
Through detailed examination of particular changes, we will identify recurrent patterns of change.
You will learn to reconstruct patterns of change from textual evidence.
We will engage with the key debates within historical linguistics, by evaluating and critiquing the work of researchers in the field.
By engaging you with current research findings and methods, the module will equip you with skills for empirical analysis of historical linguistic data.
Practical work with computerised datasets (corpora) will develop key  transferrable skills in ICT, data analysis and your abilities to solve problems independently and/or collaboratively.
Employers value these skills, so they will enhance your employability.
EL5015 -
Language and Literature (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module, you will develop a thorough and comprehensive understanding of the field of stylistics.
You will study the history and development of modern stylistics, and the key principles and theories of literary linguistics.
Surrounding the key principles of texualism and contextualism, you will study three strands of stylistics, namely functional stylistics, narrative stylistics and cognitive stylistics.
Within each of these strands, you will study how relevant research methods can help you explore a wide variety of linguistic features in prose fiction, poems, plays and other literary and non-literary discourses.
Through learning about the different ways in which stylistics theories and methods develop over time and interact with different academic disciplines, you will further develop and enhance your critical analytical skills and creative thinking when approaching complex and diverse issues in language use.
EL5016 -
Psychology of Language (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will critically analyse, review and develop your knowledge and understanding of key principles, arguments and research methods connected with psycholinguistics, which explores the relationship between language and mind.
You will continue to consolidate your understanding of how data from empirical investigation relates to theory by developing your ability to use evidence to defend or refute an argument about the nature of language and language processing.
You will further explore the universal characteristics of language, place language in its biological and social contexts and be expected to apply ideas from empirical research to reach potential solutions to complex problems.
EL5017 -
The sounds and structures of English (Core,20 Credits)
The module seeks to introduce you to linguistic theory while building on their knowledge of the phonetics, phonology, morphology and syntax of English.
The module begins with an examination of English sentence structure from the perspective of generative grammar and then looks at how this underlying structure is realised in morpho-phonological form.
You will acquire the ability to examine linguistic phenomena from a theoretical point of view and understand the interfaces between different levels of analysis.
EL5020 -
Classroom Skills for TESOL (Optional,20 Credits)
There is currently no summary for this module.
TE5507 -
Student Tutoring (Optional,20 Credits)
You will learn how to be a tutor of students in schools or colleges.
You will develop your skills in communicating effectively with children or young people.
As part of this process you will learn how to evaluate your own learning of how to support these pupils’ learning over a series of lessons.
You will be learning how to transmit your own enthusiasm for learning in a professional context to pupils within the schooling system.
You will learn about the issues facing teachers and other professionals within the school, college or learning centre.
Learning how to apply your existing skills and knowledge in a work related context will be an important focus of this module for you.
Knowing how to determine which skills and knowledge are relevant, and make appropriate use of these in the work context, will be a major learning opportunity for you.
EL6024 -
English Language Dissertation (Core,40 Credits)
This module will offer you the opportunity to complete a large scale independent research project (10,000 words) on an English Language or Linguistics topic of your choice.
You will learn how to plan, manage and organise a large scale research project; how to identify suitable research questions and methods; how to apply these methods appropriately to primary and/or secondary materials; and how to structure and write a sustained academic argument, following academic conventions appropriate to the discipline.
In designing and implementing your research project, you will draw on skills and knowledge developed during the programme.
The dissertation will allow you to work independently, drawing on the advice and guidance of a designated supervisor.
Students will develop abilities that are highly valued by employers.
These include the abilities to think and work systematically and independently,  to interpret data and arguments, and to communicate coherently verbally and in writing.
Throughout your dissertation project, you will therefore draw upon, and, in your final submission demonstrate, key transferable skills which are essential for employment in the contemporary world, ranging from intellectual, to organisational, to communication skills.
EL6028 -
The origins and evolution of language (Optional,20 Credits)
In addition to linguistics, this module brings together ideas from evolutionary biology, palaeontology and its subgroup palaeobiology, anthropology, physiology, neuroscience, genetics, primatology and computer science.
Evidence from these and other sources is used to understand when and why language emerged in our ancestors.
The module starts with a very brief overview of the Western philosophical context in which debates over language are embedded.
This context is used to examine how different linguists in the twentieth century approached the study of language, and the issue of whether language is a social or a cognitive (an external or an internal) phenomenon.
We then look at theories of evolution and hypotheses concerning hominin phylogeny (i.e.
Homo sapiens and all the ancestral species since our split from the last common ancestor with any extant species  ).
Turning to the actual evolution of language, we examine comparative data from other animal communication systems and the cognitive and physiological pre-requisites that are necessary for language.
The final part of the module focuses on theories of language evolution, and in particular the debate between nativist and non-nativist accounts of language.
Throughout the module, you will evaluate the many varied perspectives on language evolution which you encounter, and establish your own view of and position within these debates, developing your ability to present your own viewpoint in speech and in writing.
EL6032 -
Variation, Change and Corpus Linguistics (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module, you will learn how to use recently developed corpora of written or spoken language to investigate patterns of grammatical variation and/or change.
You will learn what a corpus is, and the research skills necessary to use it.
These skills including how to identify research questions and hypotheses, how to select research methods appropriate to particular hypotheses (including qualitative and quantitative approaches to corpus data), how to select and evaluate appropriate sources of corpus data, how to extract relevant data from the corpus to test a research hypothesis, and how to interpret those data in the light of theories of language variation and change.
Through the practical experience of using corpora you will gain on this module, you will learn about the issues involved in conducting this kind of research, so that you will be able to evaluate the advantages and disadvantages of particular research techniques, methods or strategies that are applied within corpus studies of language variation and change Not only will this enable you to see how research in this field is conducted, it will provide you with opportunities to develop key transferable skills in the quantitative and qualitative analysis of large datasets, the interpretation of qualitative and quantitative data (particularly quantitative reasoning skills), the use of computerised databases and tools for statistical analysis, and the presentation of research data and analysis both verbally and in writing.
Working in small groups will enhance your abilities to collaborate with others, to justify and take decisions, to manage a research project and to work independently.
EL6058 -
Language, Meaning and the Mind (Optional,20 Credits)
This module provides a detailed overview of the key concepts and issues in semantics (the study of language meaning).
Along the way, we will discover a range of tools for analysing language and we will be engaging with current debates in linguistic theory.
The module takes a problem-solving, interactive approach to analysing meaning and is designed to develop your ability to discover patterns (and exceptions) in language data.
Global and Local: Taught by academic staff with strong international research profiles and global and local contacts.
Supportive and Stimulating Environment: Interactive classroom sessions where students and staff work together to develop skills and understanding.
Experiential learning opportunities at all levels.
Career readiness: Develops a wide range of research and communication skills, preparing you for a wide range of careers.
Modules include learning and placement opportunities, including in local schools and colleges.
While the course itself is strongly focused on the development of employability skills, there are also topics and pathways which are designed to set you up for your dream role.
Our first-year linguistics students work on a project with an innovative marketing firm, learning how linguistics unlocks understanding and communication in this major industry.
Some students take a TESOL (Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages) pathway, graduating with the award ‘BA English Language with TESOL’, potentially giving you an advantage when it comes to finding ELT (English Language Teaching) jobs.
With highly honed skills in communication and analysis, you will be ready to hit the ground running once you start a career.
You can use your degree as a platform to launch a career in an area such as journalism, publishing, advertising, media, PR, cultural administration, finance, law, teaching and the civil service.
You are encouraged to take advantage of opportunities for internships and placements .
You can also consider continuing your studies at postgraduate level.
If you have chosen the TESOL route then you will be able to move into teaching English as a second or other language.
With our large and enthusiastic staff team, you’ll be joining a group of world-leading researchers exploring a wide range of topics on language and communication.
These topics include: language learning and teaching, cognitive linguistics, sociolinguistics, forensic linguistics, corpus linguistics, linguistic meaning, language variation and change, and literary linguistics.
Our academics are excellent teachers as well as researchers.
Their expertise on teaching contributes to our pathway which leads to a BA in English Language and TESOL (Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages).
Our modules also focus on personal development and employment-focused skills.
At Northumbria you will learn to carry out your own research projects as part of our very strong research-rich ethos.
In your first year you will be introduced to enquiry-based learning, exploring different ways of doing research in linguistics and conducting a partial replication and/or extension of a published study.
In your second year there is increased focus on the critical evaluation of empirical studies and alternative research methods.
In the final year you will undertake a dissertation on an area of linguistic enquiry that you negotiate with tutors.
It’s a test of academic maturity that will enable you to demonstrate independent learning, academic rigour, self-directed purpose and intellectual ambition.
Our Professor of English Language and Linguistics, Billy Clark, is a leading expert in pragmatics and literary linguistics, who has worked on a large number of projects focused on connections between school and university study, including the Integrating English project and the UK Linguistics Olympiad .
The use of TEL enables us to ‘flip’ our classrooms where appropriate, so that contact time is focused on answering questions and applying what you have already learnt.
There are over half a million print books and another 500,000 electronic books available online.
The University has invested in specialist linguistics software and facilities.
These include a resource room, specialist computing equipment and interview rooms.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ma-english-language-and-linguistics-newcastle-dtfelu6:
Northumbria’s MA English Language and Linguistics builds on the broad range of research expertise in the English department and will give you the chance to explore a wide range of linguistic specialisms.
During the course, you will explore key concepts and theories involved in the study of language as well as examining theories which lie behind the analysis of linguistic structure, acquisition and use, and its interfaces with other disciplines.
You will also gain an in-depth knowledge of the conceptual and analytical tools necessary to conduct informed and responsible enquiry at postgraduate level in Linguistics
Topics you could choose to study include world Englishes, sociolinguistics, language acquisition, psycholinguistics, language variation and change, the evolution of language, and forensic linguistics.
As well as offering you the chance to improve your knowledge and understanding of the structure of language, our MA English Language and Linguistics will help you to develop skills for professional employment and further research at doctoral level.
The programme’s learning and teaching strategy will enable you to learn in a stimulating and student-centred environment.
A variety of teaching methods are employed on our programme, including lectures, seminars, group workshops and individual tutorials.
With the use of new technology and innovative teaching, our staff offer a progressively challenging and rewarding experience to students throughout the programme.
The programme integrates the teaching of fundamental issues in English language and linguistics, with the research interests of the teaching team.
Students will also be actively involved in the monitoring and development of the programme through feedback to Programme Management Committees.
Each module is designed according to staff expertise, which covers a very wide range of areas of linguistics.
Projects we have worked on recently have focused on a wide range of areas, including first and second language acquisition, language and social disadvantage, attitude research in sociolinguistics, linguistic variation and change, language teaching practice, second language phonology, the role of technology in language learning, the use of first language in second language classrooms, pragmatics, stylistics, the role of metaphor in classroom activities, the evolution of language, medical communication, forensic linguistics applied in policing and in courtrooms, and the use of digital technology in interviewing and representing crime victims and suspects.
Cutting-edge research undertaken by the English Language and Linguistics team has been published in leading journals and our lecturers have been invited to present their research around the world.
The Humanities department is made up of a community of learners all the way through from foundation year and first year undergraduate to final year PhD level.
English Language and Linguistics MA students, as part of Northumbria’s Humanities department, will have access to the Institute of Humanities which houses a range of specialist research resources.
The subject area of English Language and Linguistics produces high quality research and has been successful in securing external funding for research projects.
The subject area has hosted the journals Cognitive Linguistics and ELT Journal and staff members serve on the editorial boards for a wide range of journals.
Programme staff are world-leading researchers with extensive experience of both teaching and researching a wide range of areas within language and linguistics.
Our MA programmes provide you with programmes of study which combine exciting subject-specific content with an emphasis on development of independent analytical and research skills, supported by knowledgeable, research-active members of staff.
In addition to these personal skills, as a graduate you will have demonstrated a critical awareness of the current research and scholarship within your discipline, facilitating your ability to interpret knowledge in a variety of professional fields.
Our MA programmes build on existing undergraduate skills, distinguished by the level of intensity, complexity, and density of study.
You will have demonstrated your advanced communication skills, media literacy, time management, ethical and professional understanding, as well as highly developed research and inquiry skills.
From the start of the programme, you are encouraged to access to the central university Careers and Employment Service, and to use this service regularly to seek advice on areas such as career guidance both during and after your course.
This Masters programme will prepare you for a wide range of careers, including journalism, public relations, advertising, marketing, communications and communication technology, artificial intelligence projects, as well as helping you to develop as a field linguist or academic.
There are also careers in which linguistics is applied, such as teaching, speech therapy and forensics.
More generally the programme enhances the employability of graduates in areas in which a sensitivity to language and communication are valued.
There are also considerable opportunities for you to advance your studies further, and, should you wish to do, we are are eager to offer advice on writing PhD proposals and funding applications during your studies.
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree in Linguistics, English Language or a relevant related discipline.
International applicants are required to have a minimum overall IELTS (Academic) score of 6.5 with no component to be under 6.0
EL7037 -
Language: Structure and Use (Core,20 Credits)
During this 20 credit module, you will develop your knowledge and understanding of the structure of language – phonology, morphology syntax and semantics – while consolidating your knowledge of, and ability to analyse, cross-linguistic data.
You will become familiar with a number of phonological, morphological, syntactic and semantic features of languages that contrast with the structure of English, and be able to explain these in descriptive and theoretical terms.
Specifically you will revise and extend your understanding of key concepts in analysing cross-linguistic topics possibly including, but not limited to, autosegmental phonology and vowel harmony, reduplication, argument structure and valency alternation, and lexical semantics.
On successful completion of this module, therefore, you will therefore be able to: demonstrate a systematic approach to linguistic structure and an understanding of how theory underpins knowledge; critically evaluate arguments in the typological classification of languages and describe and analyse in depth a range of cross-linguistic data.
You will additionally develop the skills needed to work autonomously in researching variation in linguistic structure across languages
Sociolinguistics (Core,20 Credits)
Investigating Language for TESOL (Optional,20 Credits)
Exploring the TESOL Classroom (Optional,20 Credits)
TESOL in the World (Optional,20 Credits)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-english-language-and-literature-extended-degree-uusxst2egl:
On our English Language and Literature course, you will study fantastically stimulating and distinctive modules that range from Shakespeare to contemporary fiction, and that explore how the English language works, where it comes from, and why people use English in different ways.
We aspire to help you as you help yourself in becoming a ‘citizen scholar’ who is able to think independently and make your own contribution to the world.
As part of this, we ensure that you engage with advanced linguistic concepts and literature from around the world.
We also offer options to broaden your experience and cultural sensitivity by studying abroad for a semester in your second year, usually in North America or mainland Europe.
This English degree is for you, if you are passionate about understanding language, literature, and how the two connect.
Enthusiastic, research-active staff ensure you will study a stimulating, distinctive, and wide range of modules, covering topics, issues, texts and concepts in both language and literature, from canonical figures like Shakespeare, to cutting-edge contemporary fiction and theory, from the fundamentals of how the English language works, how people use it, and how that knowledge can help us to communicate more effectively.
You will develop the transferable skills in analysis, interpretation, communication, argument and research needed to excel at university and after, as we help you become a confident, independent, critical and active learner able to think and thrive as you make your contribution to the world.
English at Northumbria is ranked 21st for research power in the UK, out of 92 institutions (REF, 2021).
This is a rise of 5 places since 2014.
Similar courses you may be interested in: English Language Studies BA , English Literature BA or discover all of our available English Courses and find the course for you.
UCAS Code Z009
Discover more about what you will learn on the course, more about our academics research interests, and hear from current students by watching our videos
English at Northumbria enjoys international recognition for the quality of teaching and research, and our modules are routinely praised by external examiners.
Our publications in English and Creative Writing are ranked 21st in the country for their quality, by the 2021 Research Excellence Framework.
Our staff actively explore and shape what the disciplines of linguistic and literary study mean in the 21st century, and our expertise and enthusiasm feed directly into what we teach and what you learn.
In linguistics, Northumbria has wide-ranging expertise in cognitive linguistics, semantics, pragmatics and English grammar.
In literature, our staff research topics from Shakespeare to the modern graphic novel.
Your tutors will use a variety of teaching methods including lectures, seminars, discussion activities, group tasks and individual tutorials.
These will be backed up by a well-designed support system that ensures you have a successful learning journey in each academic year.
You will not only receive extensive feedback but also ‘feed-forward’ as tutors work with you to explore how you can keep improving on previous work.
Our assessment strategy is designed to support student-centred learning, based on our understanding that everyone has different needs, strengths and enthusiasms.
Assessments will develop your communication skills while also inspiring you to analyse evidence, pursue original thought and persuade others of your ideas.
Assessment methods will include essays, exams, coursework and a final-year dissertation.
The use of TEL caters for different learning styles and encourages reflective thought.
The University has invested in specialist linguistics software and further facilities are available at the Institute for the Humanities, in the University’s Lipman Building.
At Northumbria you will learn to carry out your own research projects as part of our strong research-rich ethos.
In your first year you will be introduced to enquiry-based learning, engaging critically with research in seminars and assessments.
In your second year there is increased focus on starting to conduct your own research.
In the final year you will undertake a dissertation in either linguistics or literature, or a combination of the two.
English Research
In recent years, many of our graduates have developed successful careers in marketing, PR, media, journalism, communications, publishing, advertising, education (at various levels), local government, and in both public and private sectors.
Others have gone on to postgraduate study.
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study English Literature.
EL4001 -
Introduction to Literary Studies (Core,20 Credits)
You will be given the opportunity to familiarise yourself with conceptual issues such as canonicity, the unconscious, the tragic, the nature of the author, gender and postmodernity.
Lectures will introduce you to these concepts and modes of applying these to literary texts as well as introducing you to new material in the texts themselves.
Seminars will follow the lectures, where you will discuss and explore with your tutor and with your fellow students both the texts and their historical and theoretical contexts.
EL4016 -
Talking Texts (Core,20 Credits)
This module offers you a forum to develop academic skills in close reading and analysis.
You will explore a range of texts within a reading-focussed workshop, such as the novel, short stories, poetry, plays, and journalism.
By exploring such a wide range of texts you will reconsider and develop your reading practices.
The discursive workshops develop speaking, listening, and critical skills through participation in classroom activities.
The module prepares you for work at degree level, encouraging you to become an independent learner in a supportive environment.
EL5003 -
Early Modern Cultures (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will learn to read texts written in the period 1500-1700 historically.
Lectures and seminars will encourage you to learn about the early modern period, and to situate texts by authors such as William Shakespeare, Christopher Marlowe, Thomas More, and Philip Sidney.
You will learn about poetry, prose, and drama – situating literary genres from the period in relation to themes that include: class, race, sexuality, politics, authority, gender, and ideas of literary production itself.
Lectures will trace the afterlives of some of the most influential texts ever written, and will encourage you to read these textual traditions in light of a range of western literary ideologies.
Building upon work completed at Level 4 on early modern authors like Shakespeare and Donne, this module offers students a more comprehensive survey of the early modern period.
Encouraging students to read literature historically, Early Modern Cultures fosters key skills in tutor-led and independent reading and research that will complement a range of studies at level 6.
EL5004 -
Modernism and Modernity (Core,20 Credits)
Through this module you will gain an understanding of the relation between literary modernism and modernity in the early part of the twentieth century.
The module provides you with conceptual and historical frameworks for understanding the relation between art and social life.
It gives you an opportunity to engage with the ways in which different literary genres prompted modernist experiments in form and with the various debates taking place between literary critics, writers, philosophers and cultural historians in early-twentieth-century Britain and the USA.
Language and Literature (Core,20 Credits)
EL5026 -
Literary Revolutions, Eighteenth Century to Romanticism (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will study a range of texts from the eighteenth century to the Romantic period.
The module considers a period in which literature and culture witnessed a succession of revolutionary changes.
The novel emerged as a new form; female writers and readers took on a new prominence; the print market expanded enormously; and writers responded to the seismic changes in society caused by a period of war, imperial expansion, and political and social revolution.
You will study a diverse and unusual range of texts that emerged from this period, and learn how to link the texts to the period’s context.
EL6001 -
English Dissertation (Optional,40 Credits)
In your third year you will be ready to become an independent thinker and researcher.
The dissertation is your opportunity to research and write a substantial investigation of a topic that you are really passionate about.
Your tutors will support you as you learn how to work independently and to manage a large project.
You will also learn project-management, research, presentation and writing skills.
You will learn to be self-motivated and independent.
By the end of the module you will have produced a major piece of work that you can be proud of, and you will be ready to continue as an independent thinker in further study or in the graduate job you go on to at the end of your third year.
EL6007 -
Sin, Sex, and Violence: Marlowe in Context (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will enhance your awareness and appreciation of one of the most controversial and stimulating authors of the early modern period (and beyond!), Christopher Marlowe (1564-1593).
Marlowe wrote plays and poems that expose our darkest hearts, showing characters lusting for power, and each other.
Building on your brief contact with Marlowe at Level 5, this module will offer a chronological survey of his short but staggering career, situating each of his works in relation to the tumultuous contexts of their production and reception, including later appropriations.
This will involve looking at Marlowe in relation to discussions of early modern politics, religious conflict, sexuality, urbanisation, imperialism, science and magic, ethnicity, geography, and historiography.
The module therefore offers a unique opportunity to see how one writer’s remarkable career developed.
EL6016 -
Neo-Victorianism: Contemporary Literature and Culture (Optional,20 Credits)
On this module, you will learn about how the Victorian period is presented in an interdisciplinary range of texts, from film, graphic novels, theatre and contemporary fiction.
You will examine the notion of ‘Neo-Victorianism’ in the twentieth and the twenty-first centuries.
from the 1960s to the present, and you will learn why the Victorian period still holds such a fascination in literature and popular culture.
We will also study several key theoretical areas: feminism, lesbianism and women’s writing; postcolonialism and Empire; postmodernist rewrites, reinterpretations and intertextuality; nostalgia and its effects in literature and the wider society; technology and travel; the interaction of the visual and the written text.
English Language Dissertation (Optional,40 Credits)
EL6053 -
Writing Women: Aphra Behn in Focus (Optional,20 Credits)
This module explores the writings of the first professional woman writer in England, Aphra Behn (d.
1689).
Biographically, Behn remains something of an enigma.
We know little about her personal life, and some of our earliest records of her relate to her work as a Continental spy for Charles II.
Yet Behn is one of the most important writers of the late seventeenth century.
She contributed to many genres of literature (poetry, drama, translation and prose), she was the second most prolific dramatist of her age, and she authored the first English novel.
Behn was a transformative and innovative author, deeply engaged with questions of gender and self-aware, in her writings, of her status as a female author in a male profession.
On this module we will read a selection of Behn’s writings, exploring their relationship to her contemporary writers, Behn’s historical moment and the broader development of literature.
We will also explore the complex reception history of Behn’s work, thinking about why she disappeared from the literary canon within decades of her death, only to be rediscovered by feminist and postcolonial scholars from the 1970s and 80s.
In studying Behn’s changing status as a literary author, and by reading her work, students will learn about a key moment (the 1670s-80s) in the development of the literary marketplace, whilst developing an appreciation of the ways in which gender concerns have affected access to Behn’s literature, as well as shaped (and, at times, limited) our understanding of its wider importance.
Today, Behn is much-studied and there are numerous scholarly editions of her writings.
Yet there is still much we have yet to properly understand about her writings, and Behn studies are as vibrant and diverse as ever.
Recent years have seen a renewed energy in Behn scholarship that seeks to understand her writings beyond their significance to gender studies, with scholars showing how Behn’s writings engage with the burning issues of the day: marital law; monarchy; philosophy; politics; science; sexuality; slavery.
EL6057 -
Thieves, Harlots, Pirates, Murderers: Criminal Lives in the Long Eighteenth Century (Optional,20 Credits)
The eighteenth century is often considered the ‘age of politeness’, a new enlightened age of material wealth, refinement, global trade and luxury, urban order and civility, and polished manners.
However, the major changes that brought such refinement and wealth to British society also brought with them disruption, poverty, violence, and crime and a period of adjustment to modern commercial realities and pressures.
This module will introduce students to eighteenth-century Britain’s underbelly of crime, through the lives of criminals who, reviled and celebrated in news, popular culture, and literature, were always the focus of public fasincation.
On this module, we will use a variety of media, including criminal biographies, novels, plays, poems, newspaper reports, pamphlets, legal records, art and visual culture, and film/TV adaptations, in order to explore the social, political, and cultural meanings encoded in the lives of criminals in eighteenth-century Britain and the countries to which its global trade reached.
We will consider the ways in which criminal figures were represented and continue to be represented today, as well as the implications of these representations in terms of ideas about crime, social class, gender, regional and national identity, race, and culture.
EL6060 -
Victorian Sensation Fiction (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will survey the ‘Sensation Mania’ of the 1860s as a historically significant literary phenomenon that seemed to threaten the growing respectability of the novel form.
We will examine how a variety of sensation narratives, including novels, plays and short fiction, participated in contemporary debates over sexuality, morality, race and class.
You will learn about the radical spaces these sensational texts provided for Victorian readers to question and to ‘queer’ societal ‘norms’.
We will investigate the historical context in which sensation literature emerged, considering its debt to the Gothic; its strong ties to penny dreadfuls and tabloid journalism; the art of serial publication; the power of circulating libraries; the influence of notorious criminal trials, and important legislative changes such as divorce law reform.
EL6061 -
Staging Early Modern Gender (Optional,20 Credits)
Early modern/Shakespearean theatre was fascinated by questions of gender and its representation onstage.
Early modern drama offers us important insights into its culture because, as a popular form which has become enshrined in the canon as ‘high art’, it gives us access to both popular and elite culture.
This module explores the drama of the early modern period through the lens of stage gender and its intersections with race and race-making, faith, sexuality, and women’s writing and performance.
You will read plays by early modern men and women to explore topics such as: early modern femininities and masculinities; women’s performance and the early modern boy-actor; trans, queer, non-binary and gender nonconforming identities.
We will structure our reading around the intersections of gender with questions of (1) faith (how, for example, does the English stage depict the gendered Muslim or Jewish subject in travel plays?); (2) race-making (how does the English stage depict racialised blackness and whiteness on an actor’s body?
How does the stage forge concepts of race that we have inherited today?); and (3) sexuality (how does the Shakespearean stage represent queer desire?
Is the Shakespearean boy-actor an inherently queer figure?).
Because we are students of literature, for all of these categories, we’ll examine how these forces shape the language of the stage and the plays performed there.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/english-language-and-literature-ba-hons-uuslst2egl:
UCAS Code Q390
As the degree programme involves reading and analysing literary and critical articles, students are expected to purchase or print copies of primary materials (novels, collections of poetry, plays, etc.) for their own personal use in seminars to allow for annotation and close engagement.
The combined cost of purchasing and/or printing primary texts is approximately £100 per year, though this figure depends on editions purchased and can be reduced significantly by using the library, accessing e-books and locating articles electronically where possible and appropriate.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-english-language-uuslan1:
Q330

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-english-literature-extended-degree-uusxgl1:
As our world hurtles from political upheaval to medical and climate emergencies, our English Literature degree helps you understand the stories that underpin our contemporary crises.
From society and race in classics like Shakespeare or Austen to modern American culture, and from twenty-first century gothic to love and criminality in the eighteenth century, our literature degree is relevant, vibrant, and inspiring.
Through our innovative assignments and our close work with cultural partners, you'll learn how to apply the skills learned in literary study in the world beyond the university.
What stories will you learn to tell in our changing world?
The uniqueness of our Literature degree lies in how it brings together the study of stories and how we tell them across hundreds of years, with a contemporary focus on your career, helping you take your cultural understanding into the twenty-first century world of work.
Studying Literature at Northumbria lets you bring together your passion for human stories while making practical steps into your future career.
You will engage with the heritage industry in a unique module designed with a major regional gallery.
And we introduce you to the world of publishing and book-making , potentially leading to our unique MA in Publishing with partners Hachette and New Writing North.
Meanwhile, for those looking to inspire the next generation of literature lovers, you can opt to begin your teaching experience with a module focused on learning how to be a tutor of students in schools or colleges.
Your voice is vital in our seminar groups and small discussions.
We bring students together to read and talk about texts and stories from day one.
We introduce you to themes of huge relevance today, such as gender and equality, or the power of poetry to capture a cultural moment or a new social obsession.
All your work leads up to your major project, a dissertation where you make your own mark in the world of literary studies.
Students will also have the option to extend their studies, either taking a placement year in industry or opting to study abroad in the likes of mainland Europe or North America.
UCAS Code Z011
Discover more about what you will learn on the course, more about our academics research interests, and hear from current students by watching our videos.
Your tutors will use a variety of teaching methods including lectures, seminars, group tasks and tutorials.
You will not only receive extensive feedback but also ‘feed-forward’ as tutors collaborate with you to explore how you can keep improving on previous work.
Our assessment strategy is designed to support student-centred learning, based on our understanding that everyone has different needs, strengths, and enthusiasms.
Assessment methods are engaging and diverse, including essays, exams, critical reviews, and even blogs as well as a final-year dissertation.
A wide range of option
modules are offered on this course.
To ensure the quality of the student
learning experience, some modules are subject to minimum and maximum student
numbers.
English at Northumbria enjoys international recognition for the quality of teaching and research.
Our publications are ranked 21st in the country for their quality, by the 2021 Research Excellence Framework.
Our staff actively explore and shape what literary studies mean in the 21st century, and our expertise and enthusiasm feed directly into what we teach.
Our staff’s research interests include Renaissance literature, Romanticism, contemporary literature, popular culture, 18th century literature, American literature, and Modernism.
Clark Lawlor
Leigh Wetherall Dickson
Databases include LION (Literature Online database) and MLA (bibliography database).
Further facilities are available at the Institute for the Humanities, in the University’s Lipman Building, including a resource room, specialist computing equipment and interview rooms.
At the heart of each Northumbria campus, our libraries provide a range of study space and technology to suit every learning style
At Northumbria you
will learn to conduct your own research projects as part of our strong
research-rich ethos, which has enabled the University to climb into the UK’s
top 30 for research power in English language and literature.
In your first year you will be introduced to
enquiry-based learning, engaging critically with research in seminars and
assessments.
In your second year there is increased focus on starting to
conduct your own research.
In the final year, you will choose from a wide range of option modules all of which are based on current staff research projects.
For example you might take our 'Making Books' module, led by Dr Helen Williams.
This module explores the relationship between literature and the physical book trade in the eighteenth century, or our 'Black Atlantic' module led by Dr Clare Elliott.
This module explores literature concerned with race, slavery and resistance, from Phillis Wheatley to Zadie Smith.
You will also
undertake a dissertation on a topic that you negotiate with tutors.
It’s a test
of academic maturity that will enable you to demonstrate independent learning,
academic rigour, self-directed purpose, and intellectual ambition.
Throughout the course there will be opportunities to
engage with Northumbria’s wider research, for example through attending
lectures held by guest speakers whom we invite to the University as part of our
collaborative projects.
Research in English is supported by a lively culture of interdisciplinary research groups covering a timescale from the early modern era through to the present day.
Employability
is embedded throughout our learning and teaching strategies.
Core and optional modules cultivate your competence and
self-confidence, enhancing transferable skills such as high-level analysis and
independent thinking.
Our second-year students are given the option to
take a Student Tutoring module, in which you will gain valuable experience by
volunteering to help and observe in local high schools.
Our students are also given the
option to take an interim year, which allows you to gain valuable experience in the industry or
study on a foreign exchange at a partnered university, ensuring that you stand
out from the crowd when it’s time to apply for future jobs.
Our students can also gain valuable experience through the literature and the
museum module.
This module gives you the chance to gain experience at local partnered
heritage sites and museums.
With well-honed skills in
communication and analysis, you will be ready to hit the ground running once
you start a career.
In recent years, our graduates have developed successful
careers in journalism, the media, communications, publishing, librarianship,
advertising, marketing, education (at various levels), and the civil service.
EL4004 -
Reading Poetry (Core,20 Credits)
This module encourages you to read and enjoy poetry whilst also developing your understanding of how figurative language, linguistic choice and formal technique work to produce the meanings that we derive from poetry.
The module is structured to help you develop competence in close reading of literary texts and to increase your familiarity with the critical vocabulary that  will enable you to discuss and analyse poetic language in an informed manner.
You will also be encouraged to increase your awareness of the diverse nature of poetic composition and to recognise the importance of genre, context and form in the reading of poetic language.
Working on the principle that close reading is an essential part of critical analysis of any text, the module provides a foundation for all subsequent elements of your studies in English Literature.
Moreover, because these skills in understanding poetry are an essential first step in creating it, the module seeks to foster an understanding of the creative process that will improve your familiarity with poetic technique and thus help to develop your creative skills.
The module elides the gap between the creative and critical spheres and in so doing enrich both.
EL5005 -
Geneses of English Literature (Optional,20 Credits)
What are the mythological frameworks of western culture, and how have they influenced and informed literary texts?
This module will introduce you to poems, plays, and novels which adapt classical and biblical narratives – including mythologies of ‘genesis’ (Eden, Troy), ‘metamorphosis’ (Actaeon, Christ), and ‘underworlds’ (Orpheus and Eurydice, Satan) – unpacking and analysing some of the most central narratives of British and American literature.
Using cultural theory relevant to appropriation studies, you will learn how to locate and analyse classical and biblical narratives in literary texts in meaningful ways.
Reading beyond literature, you will also learn about how these narratives are employed in popular music, film, television, advertising, and wider popular cultures.
Building upon work completed at Level 4 in narrative and appropriation studies on modules such as EL4006 ‘Concepts in Criticism and Culture’, this module offers you a more focused and in depth opportunity to read core narrative and mythology ‘types’ in a range of twentieth and twenty-first century texts.
The module fosters key skills in textual analysis, and your tutor-led and independent reading and research tasks will supplement and support learning at Level 6.
EL5008 -
Tragedy (Optional,20 Credits)
What was or is tragedy?
When and why did tragic drama begin to be written and performed?
How have later writers of tragedy built on or surpassed early forms of tragedy?
What did or does tragedy tell us about the world we live in?
This module addresses these questions, with a survey of tragic drama from the classical past, through the early modern period, to the twentieth century.
You will learn to contextualise each tragedy in relation to the conflicts and strains of the period in which it was made and consumed, while also thinking about the relations between writing, gender, religion, and politics, issues of literary influence, and the function of art in times of crisis, past and present.
Building on your work correlating Shakespearean tragedy and modern drama at Level 4 (Titus Andronicus and Blasted), and prefiguring your extended writing work for the dissertation and on drama-based modules such as Marlowe in Context at Level 6, this module will develop your understanding of the dramatic genre of tragedy.
This will involve looking at tragedy’s earliest forms, the early modern revival and revision of such forms, and modern reworkings of the genre and its concerns.
EL5029 -
Literature in the Museum: Working in the Heritage Sector (Optional,20 Credits)
This module aims to broaden your awareness of the professional opportunities in the Arts and Heritage sectors open to those with a degree in English literature, drawing upon departmental expertise in working within the professional cultural and heritage sectors.
The module will provide a solid grounding in the interdisciplinary nature of literary studies, and instruct you in the practical application of literary knowledge in a professional environment.
It will teach key organisational skills involved in managing a project which you will be able to draw on in writing your third-year dissertation.
Over the course of the academic year you will be introduced to key theoretical ideas involved in working on literature-related projects in the culture and heritage sectors; the relationship between literature & the visual arts, literature & place/heritage sites and literature & archives/collections/digital resources.
English Dissertation (Core,40 Credits)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-english-literature-and-american-studies-extended-degree-uusxgl2ast:
Through inspired teaching and intellectual debate, we will nurture your passion by developing your creative and critical thinking.
You will learn how to communicate effectively and solve complex problems as you develop an awareness of how past cultures, societies and texts shape our present and future.
Studying Literature and American Studies at Northumbria lets you bring together your passion for human stories while making practical steps into your future career.
You will have opportunities to engage with the heritage industry through department field trips, guest lecturers, and academic partnerships.
And we introduce you to the world of publishing and book-making, potentially leading to our unique MA in Publishing with partners Hachette and New Writing North.
All your work leads up to your major creative writing project or dissertation, where you make your own mark in the world of literary studies and showcase your creativity.
The uniqueness of our Literature & American Studies degree lies in how it brings together the study of stories and US history and culture, with a contemporary focus on your career, helping you take your cultural understanding into the twenty-first century world of work.
Research Power : English at Northumbria is ranked 21st for research power in the UK, out of 92 institutions (REF, 2021).
Meanwhile History at Northumbria is ranked 26th in the UK for research power, out of 81 institutions (REF, 2021).
See other similar courses you may be interested in: English Literature and Creative Writing , English Literature BA , American Studies BA or discover all of our English Courses to find the one that suits you.
UCAS Code Z012
The core modules 'Representing the US: From Slavery to Terrorism' and 'Introduction to American Studies' will provide you with a grounding in the variety of methods and approaches that make up American Studies.
At the same time, the core modules 'Introduction to Literary Studies', 'Concepts in Criticism and Culture', 'Gothic Stories' and 'Talking Texts' will help you to question and challenge your pre-university understanding of literature.
You will also have the opportunity to choose from a range of optional modules, allowing you to specialise in areas that suit your individual interests.
American Studies optional modules cover a wide range of topics in American history, politics, literature, film and TV, while English Literature options allow you to explore in depth specific periods, themes and genres.
Teaching will be in a variety of formats, including lectures, seminars and tutorials.
You will have the opportunity to work alongside your fellow students in small group exercises and discussions, which will provide an opportunity for extensive peer and tutor feedback throughout your learning.
During your studies, you will have the option to study abroad for a semester or a full year on an exchange programme with one of our North American partner institutions.
You will also have the opportunity to complete a placement year in industry or on a study abroad exchange programme.
Our course is taught by leading scholars in the fields of English Literature and American Studies.
The enthusiasm, experience, and expertise of our academic staff will ensure that your student journey is both intellectually challenging and enjoyable.
Members of our academic staff play an active role in the British Association for American Studies, which promotes and supports the academic study of the Americas.
Our English department manages and edits the internationally recognised journal English on behalf of the English Association.
Staff from across the American Studies and English teams are actively involved in shaping new, twenty-first century understandings of the Humanities, and this helps students to reflect on the value and significance of their undergraduate studies.
Dr Clare Elliott
Dr Melanie Waters
Dr Patrick Andelic
Dr Victoria Bazin
Further facilities, including a resource room, specialist computing equipment and interview rooms, are available at the Institute for the Humanities, in the University’s Lipman Building.
At Northumbria we offer research-led teaching: our staff are active researchers in their fields, who draw on their own specific interests to develop original and cutting-edge modules.
Major research interests within our teaching team include: African-American history and culture (including the Civil Rights Movement and the Black Panthers); Modernist fiction and poetry; American periodical culture; and gender and sexuality in literature and culture.
The course will allow you to develop your own independent research skills from the outset.
Firstly, you will receive guidance and support from staff to help you develop your own research question and produce a short essay on your chosen topic in ‘Introduction to American Studies’.
Then, you will produce a longer piece of independent research in the American Studies Extended Essay.
These essays will prepare you for your most sustained research project, the dissertation.
The dissertation will allow you to formulate a sophisticated answer to a complex research problem, and you will receive expert supervision from the most appropriate member of our academic team.
Studying English Literature and American Studies together means you can be taught research across both disciplines.
Discover examples of our American Studies research below.
The English Literature and American Studies programme produces graduates who are equipped with excellent practical and transferable skills, such as flexibility, motivation and the ability to communicate effectively in different formats.
The programme will foster your intellectual curiosity and help you to become a critical, independent and creative thinker.
You will learn to combine excellent research skills with the ability to analyse texts and language closely.
You will develop an understanding not only of the cultural, social, political and historical dynamics of North America, but of the modern world more generally.
Your degree will enable you to become a valued contributor to the community and the wider world in which you live.
The versatile set of skills you will develop through your studies will be the key to unlocking your success after graduation.
Graduates from both our current English Literature and American Studies courses have gone onto careers in publishing, journalism, teaching, advertising and marketing.
MP5033 -
Media and Society Special Topic (Optional,20 Credits)
HI6022 -
Joint Honours Dissertation (Optional,40 Credits)
The dissertation gives you the opportunity to work on a sustained piece of research of your own (guided) choice and to present that research in an organised and coherent form in a major piece of writing.
The module will teach you how to function as an independent researcher, learner and writer.
The dissertation represents the culmination of your studies as a Joint Honours student.
You will apply the skills developed in your earlier studies to a discrete body of primary sources, working upon a clearly defined topic.
In designing and implementing your research project, you will draw on insights and approaches from both of the disciplines that from part of your degree.
The dissertation will develop your research skills and allow you to work independently, drawing on the advice and guidance of a designated supervisor.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-english-literature-and-american-studies-newcastle-uusegl2ast:
UCAS Code T710
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Humanities Foundation Year.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/english-literature-and-creative-writing-extended-degree-ba-hons-uusxgl2cwr:
This flexible course will enable you to do both at the same time.
Learning within a strongly creative community, you’ll be set for an intellectually stimulating experience that also develops valuable transferable skills.
In Literature modules you will cover topics from Shakespeare to contemporary fiction, fostering your appreciation, understanding and enjoyment of literary texts.
You will produce independent interpretations of texts and concepts, and share your insights with others confidently.
In Creative Writing modules you will hone your craft as a writer with an emphasis on voice, structure and critical reflection.
Workshops will allow you to reflect on your practice as you develop your own creative projects.
The course combines academic rigour with a concern for employability skills such as communication and analysis.
Research Power: English at Northumbria is ranked 21st for research power in the UK, out of 92 institutions (REF, 2021).
Student Rated: Over 92% of students studying English Literature and Creative Writing at Northumbria believed their course positively challenged them to achieve their best work, and thought their course enabled them to develop knowledge and skills needed for their future (NSS, 2025).
And we introduce you to the world of publishing and book-making, potentially leading to our unique MA in Publishing with partners Hachette and New Writing North.
Check out similar courses such as our English Literature BA
UCAS Code Z005
Your tutors will use a variety of teaching methods including lectures, seminars, writing workshops and individual tutorials.
These are backed up by a well-designed support system that ensures you have a successful learning journey in each academic year.
You will not only receive extensive feedback but also ‘feed-forward’ as we collaborate with you to explore how you can keep improving on previous work.
Tutors are very approachable and easy to contact when needed.
Assessment methods are engaging and diverse, including portfolios of creative work, reflective commentaries on your creative practice, presentations, essays, exams, critical reviews, and even blogs.
Creative Writing is both researched and practised at Northumbria and our team includes award-winning novelist and poets, who are major figures in their field.
Furthermore, through our partnership with New Writing North , the foremost literary promotion agency in the north of England, we give you opportunities to meet and learn from agents, publishers, and writers from across the country.
Dr Tony Williams
Fiona Shaw
Dr Richard O'Brien
At Northumbria your learning will be directly impacted by the teaching team’s passion for their subjects, which has enabled the University to climb into the UK’s top 30 for research power in English Literature and Creative Writing.
As part of the strong research-rich ethos, you will build up your own research skills as you formulate questions, critique different interpretations, and develop well-founded arguments.
In the final year you will undertake either a dissertation or a major creative project.
Whichever you choose, you will be expected to demonstrate independent learning, academic rigour, self-directed purpose, and intellectual ambition.
There are logical career paths into writing, publishing, media, communications and advertising, but frequently our graduates also use their transferable skills to work in business, law, and teaching, or to undertake postgraduate study.
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study English Literature and Creative Writing.
EL4014 -
Story (Core,20 Credits)
This module introduces students to the core skills and ideas of narration.
Semester 1 mainly focuses on the structure and techniques of prose fiction.
In Semester 2 this is broadened to a wider range of narrative forms, including script.
Students will be introduced to a variety of basic key skills related to storytelling, will learn to appreciate the demands of different narrative genres, and will develop an understanding of the nature of story and narrative.
This will provide students with a basic framework to underpin the development of their writing practice.
EL4015 -
Creative and Critical Practice (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will learn the habit and discipline of sitting down to write regularly.
You will also learn key techniques of prose fiction writing, writerly reflection and critical writing.
In particular, you will engage in a range of ‘textual interventions’ that encourage you to explore how other writers write and how you can develop your own writing voice through engagement with that of others.
In this way you will also learn to relate critical study of literary texts to writing practice.
EL5022 -
Thinking About Voice (Core,20 Credits)
This module introduces students to the core skills and ideas of voice as applied to creative writing.
You will learn about technical aspects of voice in creative writing, e.g.
the concepts of register and free indirect discourse.
You will also learn about the wider notion of developing an individual creative voice, i.e.
the expression of subjectivity, and the importance of originality.
You will learn about the way that tone is deployed in different types of writing, and you will learn about the imaginative use of language.
All of this will give you tools that you can utilise in your own creative work.
EL5023 -
Working With Structure (Core,20 Credits)
This module introduces students to the core skills and ideas of structure as applied to narrative forms (fiction, script) and poetry.
Students will read and analyse a range of creative texts employing diverse formal structures.
Through experimentation, they will make use of these formal structures in their own creative work.
They will learn about both the limits and the opportunities offered by different structures in narrative forms and in poetry.
EL5028 -
Pitch to Publication (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will learn how to develop, edit and contribute to writing projects in the real world, from poetry and short fiction anthologies to special issues of magazines, collections of reviews, and specialist blogs.
You will study a range of creative and professional writing projects and produce your own, from initial pitch to writing, publicising, editing and producing the finished item.
You will learn to reflect on your own writing identity and the process of writing to a brief, and how to evaluate and write a structured report on a project.
You will learn from writing professionals and develop skills which prepare you for your future professional life as well as further study at level 6.
EL6035 -
Creative Writing Project (Optional,40 Credits)
This module provides an opportunity to undertake a sustained, large-scale writing project as the culmination of your degree.
It allows you to demonstrate both creative skill and the ability to reflect critically on your creative writing practice.
You will undertake a Creative Writing Project of 8,000 words of prose fiction or 300 lines of poetry.
Your creative writing project may take any form that is agreed by the project supervisor, but in most cases will be: •	A collection of poetry; •	A collection of short stories; •	A novella; •	Part of a novel As well as the creative work, you will submit a critical commentary reflecting on the project.
The commentary must be 1,000-4,000 words.
The creative work will be 4,000-7,000 words, so that together they make a total of not more than 8,000 words.
As well as the final project, you will give a formatively assessed presentation, and submit summatively assessed draft work, in semester 1.
EL6046 -
Advanced Creative Writing (Optional,20 Credits)
This module is designed for students with some experience in creative writing to further develop their skills in prose and/or poetry, with an emphasis of producing longer pieces of writing.
The module will examine the nature of genre, and will explore structure in the novel, novella, short story cycle, long poem and poetic sequence.
Although the focus of the module is on your own writing, we will read and discuss a number of texts in order to improve technique and help you in planning and carrying out your project.
Seminars will run as creative writing workshops in which students respond to writing exercises and learn to offer and receive feedback on their own and others’ work.
EL6059 -
The Craft of the Playwright (Optional,20 Credits)
The module will focus not only on the craft of writing for performance, but also on how a script plays out in real space and time, and in front of an audience.
It will be grounded in the possibilities and practical limitations of writing for theatre.
This module is designed to engender a critical understanding of the principal theories and concepts of dramaturgy and performance, and will also focus on the practical mechanics of how plays work and how they are structured.
Students will examine a number of work-in-progress texts, and will employ research and literary analysis very specifically to illuminate the issues raised in the practical realization of plays.
EL6062 -
Audio Storytelling (Optional,20 Credits)
On this module you will explore the unique possibilities for storytelling available in the audio medium.
You will study a range of sample episodes from podcasts, exploring how audio creators can make use of the narrative techniques of both fiction and creative non-fiction.
These might include more conventionally-structured audio essays (in the vein of This American Life), shows like Reply All and 99% Invisible which blend investigative journalism and cultural history, and more recent work – for instance, Moya Lothian-McLean's Human Resources which foregrounds the producer's personal response to her material.
Sessions analysing the narrative structure and techniques of the set texts will be interspersed with lecture-style presentations from New Writing North which cover the landscape of the podcasting industry, and with hands-on practical sessions, in the studio and in the field, where you will learn to use recording equipment and editing software.
You will deconstruct a podcast episode for your first assessment, and for your final assessment you will produce your own short scripted episode, alongside with a short commentary which situates your work within the broader context of the medium.
EL6063 -
Language, Strange and Enchanted (Optional,20 Credits)
On this module you will explore the possibilities of language to create experiences of strangeness, enchantment, and the unexplained across a range of texts which might include poetry, prose, and creative non-fiction.
You will study how authors, historical and contemporary, have made language behave in unusual ways to create strange and fantastical reading experiences.
Forms to be considered might include: spells, ballads, myths, creepypastas, contemporary fabulist fiction, and uncanny memoirs.
You will experiment with ways to push the boundaries of your own linguistic and conceptual approaches, and submit a portfolio for assessment in which you explore how language can create ‘strange,’ enchanting or fantastical reading experiences.
The module will introduce you both to esoteric literary traditions and to publications which seek out the 'weird' in the work of contemporary writers.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/english-literature-and-creative-writing-uusegl2cwr:
UCAS Code QW38
As the degree programme centres on reading and analysing literary and critical articles, students are expected to purchase or print copies of primary materials (novels, collections of poetry, plays, etc.) for their own personal use to allow for annotation and close engagement.
The combined cost of purchasing and/or printing primary texts is approximately £100 per year, though this figure depends on editions purchased and can be reduced significantly by using the library, accessing e-books, buying secondhand, and locating articles electronically where possible and appropriate.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-english-literature-and-history-extended-degree-uusxgl2htr:
You will use poems, novels, and other works of literature to interpret and understand past societies and cultures, and, at the same time, you will bring textual analysis to historical sources.
You’ll be asking questions about how the two disciplines differ, but also how the methods and approaches of the historian and literature specialist overlap.
By the end of the course, you will have developed both the rigorous research skills of the historian and the advanced communication skills of the literature student.
The distinctiveness of the course lies in its combination of academic rigour with a concern for employability and developing ‘citizen scholars’.
As part of this, we offer options to broaden your experience and cultural sensitivity by studying abroad for a semester.
The uniqueness of our Literature degrees lies in how they bring together the study of stories and how we tell them across hundreds of years, with a contemporary focus on your career, helping you take your cultural understanding into the twenty-first century world of work.
MA in Publishing
UCAS Code Z013
Your tutors will use a variety of teaching methods including lectures, seminars, discussion activities, writing exercises and individual tutorials.
The extensive feedback that you will receive will ‘feed-forward’ in the sense that tutors will collaborate with you to explore how you can keep improving on previous work.
Assessment methods will include essays, presentations, coursework, examinations and a final-year dissertation.
Both English and History at Northumbria enjoy international recognition for the quality of teaching and research.
The research of our staff feeds directly into what they teach and what you learn.
Staff in both subject areas are active researchers with an international profile: at the most recent UK-wide evaluation of research (REF 2021), staff publications in History were ranked within the country’s top 10, and the English submission was ranked 21st for research power in the UK.
Dr Laura O'Brien
Joe Hardwick
At Northumbria, your learning will be directly impacted by the teaching team’s passion for their subjects.
As part of the University’s strong research-rich ethos, you will also build up your own research skills as you formulate questions, critique different interpretations, and develop well-founded arguments.
In your second year there is an increased focus on starting to conduct your own research.
In the final year you will research and write a dissertation in either literature or history, or a combination of the two.
It’s a test of academic maturity that will enable you to demonstrate independent learning, academic rigour, self-directed purpose, and intellectual ambition.
Since 2016, our department hosts an annual History Dissertation Conference – an event at which final-year students present findings from their research projects.
The video below gives you a flavour of one of these conferences.
Studying English Literature and History together means you can be taught research across both disciplines.
Discover examples of our English research below.
With highly honed skills in communication and analysis, you
will be ready to hit the ground running once you start a career.
In recent
years, many of our graduates have gone on to postgraduate study or developed
successful careers in marketing, PR, media, journalism, communications,
publishing, advertising, education (at various levels), local government, and
in both public and private sectors.
Whatever you decide to do, you will have strong employability as a result of
having acquired the characteristics of a Northumbria graduate.
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study English Literature and History.
AD3033 -
The Force of Suspicion: Scandals, Rumours and 'Fake News' in History (Optional,20 Credits)
Political and social life is often shaken by claims about scandalous circumstances and events.
In some cases, such revelations are the result of thorough investigations by activists and journalists, who help uncover serious misdeeds.
In other instances, however, social media and ‘fake news’ amplify conspiracy theories and lies, casting suspicion on innocent people.
The module approaches these different phenomena from a historical perspective.
There are two major strands to this module.
First, you will investigate how, at different points in history, particular individuals or groups became the victim of false allegations.
Potential examples include the fate of women who faced accusations of witchcraft as well as the stereotypes and myths that were deployed against Jews.
In covering such cases, you will gain a better understanding of the perfidious power of rumours and lies.
The second strand deals with political scandals and their attempted cover-ups.
In some cases, such scandals amounted to significant milestones in political history.
For example, the Watergate affair – revolving around major abuses of power by US president Richard Nixon – was uncovered by journalists, leading to Nixon’s resignation and becoming a reference point in American politics.
You will also learn about scandals that involved corruption or people’s private lives – and the way in which they were covered in the media.
As a whole, the module advances your understanding of specific places, events and time periods, while tackling issues that are of ongoing significance.
Trigger-happy: The Language and Literature of Offence and Discrimination (Optional,20 Credits)
HI4003 -
The Making of Contemporary Europe (Core,20 Credits)
This module will enable you to learn about the emergence of contemporary Europe by surveying the continent’s history from the 18th century to the present.
Its thematic overview of the history of Europe and its relationship with the non-European world will provide you with an introductory knowledge and understanding of global developments.
It covers key issues in the social, economic and political transformation of Europe during this period, dwelling on events in Britain and Europe where necessary, but always maintaining an international perspective.
You will be encouraged to think in terms of European development as a whole, and not in terms of discrete national histories, and to make comparisons between different parts of the continent, often on a regional rather than a national basis.
Many of the important events which are often seen to be rooted in a particular national considerations are nevertheless also part of broader contexts which transcend national boundaries.
For example, the collapse of the old aristocratic order, profound long-term upheavals in the international economy, the spread of communist ideology, and the rise of fascism, to name but a few.
HI4006 -
Late Medieval and Early Modern Europe 1200-1720 (Core,20 Credits)
You will be introduced to the history of late medieval and early modern Europe from 1200 to 1720, and to a variety of topics including the interaction between Jews, Muslims, and Christians, the growing power of the monarchies of England, France, and Spain, and the development of print culture.
You will engage with broader themes in medieval and early modern history, such as rural and urban society, the economy, religion, gender, culture, warfare and state formation, and voyages of discovery, and follow these comparatively across period and place.
You will also learn about the different types of source material used by historians of this period of European history, such as medieval court records, state documents, popular literature, and visual images.
America in the 1960s (Optional,20 Credits)
HI5014 -
From Reconstruction to Reunification: Europe, 1945-1991 (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about the problems that Europe faced at the end of the Second World War and the factors that led to the economic boom of the post-war years.
These developments will be placed in the context of the struggle between the rival socio-political ideologies of liberalism and communism and the emergence of new social movements in Europe between 1945 and 1991.
The module deals with the era of extended military and political confrontation between the main rival socio-political systems which defeated fascism and the eruption onto the world stage of 'new social forces' such as feminism and Third-World nationalism.
It covers the key developments in European politics and society as well as Europe's relationship with the wider world during the period.
HI5022 -
The Holocaust (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about the Holocaust in its full global, historical context.
You will engage with the major historiographical debates surrounding the Shoah.
Crucially, throughout the module, there will be a dual focus on the Holocaust’s perpetrators and its victims.
The breadth of this focus ensures that the module will be interdisciplinary and you will learn how to navigate historical, literary and sociological perspectives on the Holocaust and its memory.
HI5027 -
Enlightenment to Empire: France in an Age of Revolution, 1715-1815 (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will explore French history during a century of revolutionary political and cultural change, from the death of the ‘Sun King’ Louis XIV in 1715 to the fall of Napoleon at Waterloo.
You will assess and analyse how, in the space of less than one hundred years, France transformed itself from the quasi-feudal society of the ‘Old Regime’ to a republic built on the revolutionary principles of liberty, equality and fraternity.
You will examine key aspects of this transformation, such as the Enlightenment and the influence of its ideas, the nature of Old Regime society, the origins of the Revolution of 1789, the so-called ‘Reign of Terror’, and the rise to power of Napoleon Bonaparte.
In addition, you will evaluate gender and race in these events by studying the role of women in the French Revolution and the impact of revolutionary ideas in France’s colonies.
Throughout the module, you will also assess the varied and sometimes conflicting historiographical approaches to the French Revolution.
Learning about France in the age of revolution will enable you to think critically about the relationship between different forces of change – political, economic, social and cultural – during historical periods of upheaval and transformation.
HI5033 -
Civilians and the Second World War (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module, you will learn about the civilian experiences of total warfare during the period of the Second World War (bearing in mind that exact dates of conflict and occupation vary from nation to nation).
The class will take an international comparative approach, examining civilian experiences not just on the British ‘Home Front’ but also experiences in America, Germany, Japan, the Soviet Union as well the states under enemy occupation.
The module will take a thematic rather than nation based approach to this area of study.
Topics including bombardment, childhood, gender, work and labour, domestic life, internment, occupation, collaboration and resistance will all be explored internationally and comparatively.
You will engage with a broad range of historical debates and concepts as well as engaging with a wide variety of primary materials including state propaganda, film, radio broadcasts, oral testimony, diaries, memoirs and archival material.
This will equip you to think critically about both historiography and primary sources.
HI5043 -
Rise of the Russian Empire: the Romanovs, 1613-1855 (Optional,20 Credits)
This module examines major themes in the history of tsarist Russia between two major crises.
In 1613, the election of the first Romanov tsar, Mikhail, marked the end of Russia’s ‘Time of Troubles’ when the state nearly collapsed.
Two and half centuries later, the then mighty Russian Empire was defeated by Britain, France and the Ottoman Empire in the Crimean War of 1853-56.
In between these crises, Russia’s tsars acquired considerable power over their population and a vast empire that extended across three continents.
This module considers how the Romanov tsars were able to construct and consolidate autocratic power and how they exercised it.
First, we will look at how the Romanov dynasty was established under the ‘boy-tsar’ Mikhail and then grew stronger under his successors in the 17th century.
Next, we will turn to the major personalities of Peter the Great and Catherine the Great who, in a drive to ‘modernise’, drew upon western European technology and culture to shape and strengthen their empire.
Yet ‘westernization’ also inadvertently undermined the stability of tsarism in the long-term, contributing to the growth of challenges to autocracy.
Thus began a debate about Russia’s place in Europe which continues today.
We will then consider how the successors of Catherine the Great, the so-called ‘enlightened despot’, dealt with her legacy by pursuing conservatism then ‘enlightened’ reform alternatively.
Another major theme of the course is how, why and with what consequences, both domestic and international, the tsars were able to build an enormous empire, the largest country in the world.
By the end of the eighteenth century, it extended from Poland and Finland in Europe, across Siberia in northern Asia, to Alaska in north America.
The power of the Tsars, arguably, had reached its zenith by the early 19th century, when, despite victory over Napoleon in the first decades, cracks began to show in the social and cultural fabric of the empire.
New forms of intellectual and political resistance to autocracy gradually emerged and the economic system of serfdom began to appear unfit to compete with the industrializing countries of Europe, demonstrated by Russia’s defeat in the Crimean War of 1853-56.
HI5044 -
Power and Freedom: West African History, 1850 to 2010 (Optional,20 Credits)
This module is an introduction to the modern history of West Africa from 1850 to 2010.
You will learn about major themes in the history of the region from Senegal to Nigeria, and key debates around how historians and others have represented West Africa.
The module considers precolonial West African states, how and why the region was incorporated into European empires, and West Africans’ responses to colonial rule.
You will assess how European colonial policies towards West Africa varied across time and space, how Africans challenged colonial rule to win independence in the 1950s and 1960s, and the challenges faced by newly self-governing nations.
The module studies the vicissitudes of ‘structural adjustment’ in the region during the 1980s, and democratisation in West Africa from the 1990s.
You will explore the history of West Africa from political, social, and cultural perspectives, building an understanding of how politics affected everyday life, and vice versa.
The module has a broadly chronological structure.
In some weeks seminars focus on political history, while other weeks address aspects of society and culture including music, dress, and urban life.
HI5048 -
Witches, Knights and Plague: Medieval Europe on Film (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about how medieval violence is depicted on film (such as Game of Thrones and Gladiator) and how far it accurately reflects or the realities of life in the Middle Ages.
It will also explore how twentieth-century governments (including Stalin) have used depictions of medieval warfare for political purposes.
The module moves on to explore how modern films have depicted relations between Muslims and Christians.
We will examine movies such as Kingdom of Heaven and Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves to explore how films have stereotyped Muslims to arouse either hostility or sympathy.
It will also examine how recent films about the Crusades have dealt with Christian-Muslim relations in the aftermath of 9/11, as well as the ways in which medieval religious intolerance has been represented in films such as The Da Vinci Code and how historians have responded to these depictions.
The final part of the module explores how filmmakers have portrayed gender on film.
In particular, women are frequently depicted in highly sexualised ways in films and TV programmes which draw on medieval imagery.
We will also explore how modern ideas about medieval women are represented in films about witchcraft (The Black Death and The Seventh Seal), as well as exploring how filmmakers depict medieval women who transcended their gender such as Joan of Arc who led armies into battle (Joan of Arc: The Messenger).
HI5057 -
People Power before Democracy: The United Kingdom, 1790-1914 (Optional,20 Credits)
How did ordinary people make their voices heard before democracy?
In this module you will learn how to answer this question through examining the UK’s ‘long’ nineteenth century (roughly 1790-1914).
This was a period in which few men and no women could vote and political institutions were dominated by an aristocratic elite.
Yet, this era was characterised by ‘people power’.
Mighty movements such as anti-slavery and women’s suffrage mobilised massive numbers of people to make powerful demands for political change.
The module explores this topic, firstly through studies of specific movements, such as Chartism and popular radicalism, before providing a broader thematic focus on different types of political practices and activities that were used by ordinary people, such as petitions or meetings and demonstrations.
During the course of the module you will learn about the links between these movements and practices and important historical processes such as the development of democracy in the modern UK.
During the module you will engage with a variety of historical debates, such as why was there no revolution in the UK?; and with a wide selection of primary sources, including newspapers, official records, and visual images.
Red, White and Green: The American Environment Through Time (Optional,20 Credits)
HI6010 -
Women, Crime and Subversion in Early Modern Europe (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn how different scholars have conceptualised and written about women, crime and subversion from 1400 to 1800.
You will assess and analyse why and how tensions in the early modern period meant that authorities across Europe directed their attention upon women in specific ways.
The influence of the Protestant reformation is examined in terms of its impact upon female behaviour.
Female criminality and subversive behaviour will be examined through a variety of theoretical and methodological approaches, including feminist and gender theories.
Key concepts at the fore of this module include witchcraft, petty treason, infanticide, female piracy, prostitution, adultery and fornication, lesbianism, the crime of cross-dressing, and women’s strategies in European court systems.
You will move beyond areas classified as criminal to behaviour considered as subversive and deviant, such as domestic disorder.
You will utilize a wide range of primary sources including court records, the Old Bailey legal records, assize court records and female testimonies from across Europe which will equip you to think critically about academic literature, primary sources and historical interpretation.
HI6025 -
Northern Ireland: The 'Troubles' and the Search for Peace (Optional,20 Credits)
You will learn about the origins, evolution and dynamics of one of Europe’s most recent – and deadly – intra-state conflicts.
The ‘Troubles’ in Northern Ireland, 1968-98, was marked by their persistence and seeming intractability.
With the paramilitary ceasefires in the 1990s, a new era opened; but difficulties remain in moving from a mere absence of violence to a genuine peace.
You will examine the dynamics of violence and its impact on the politics and culture of Northern Ireland over a fifty year period, and the significant challenges posed to peace since the Good Friday Agreement of 1998.
HI6027 -
Barricades and Boulevards: Revolution, Culture, and Urban Life in Nineteenth-century Paris (Optional,20 Credits)
This module examines the political, social and cultural history of Paris between 1815 and 1900.
You will study different aspects of the history of nineteenth-century Paris – revolution, urban development, popular culture, and artistic life – through a range of primary sources, including contemporary artistic and literary representations of the city.
You will assess and analyse the relationship between the city of Paris and political change during this period, with a particular focus on urban insurrection and revolution.
You will also explore artistic movements such as Romanticism and Impressionism, as well as the rise of leisure and consumer culture and the urban development of the city, especially during the Second Empire (1852-1870).
Throughout the module, you will investigate wider historical debates about urbanisation and the growth of the nineteenth-century European city.
In looking at the history of nineteenth-century Paris – the ‘capital of the nineteenth century’, as the German theorist Walter Benjamin described it – from a range of perspectives, this module will enhance your knowledge and understanding of cultural and social approaches to history, and develop your ability to use interdisciplinary methodologies in your study of the past.
HI6029 -
Mystics, Deviants and Satanists: Unorthodox Thinking in the Age of the Inquisition (Optional,20 Credits)
In this final year module you will gain familiarity with the ideas of the ostracised, the disenfranchised, the heterodox, the rebels, the heretics, and, in general, those women and men who, often defiantly, thought outside the boxes of dogma, doctrine, and the socially, politically, and morally acceptable within the strictures of a very specific context: the Inquisition-dominated early decades of a global empire led by Catholic Spain.
In this course you will be able to explore the relevance of marginality, innovation, and challenging established ideas in the constant flux of changing tensions that determine the evolution of human civilisations.
With a focus on the spiritually and socially scandalous, you will learn how groundbreaking and “dangerous” ideals and behaviours contributed to reshaping the canon of values that constitute and consolidate Western Civilisations during the Late Medieval and Early Modern periods.
This will be illustrated by Spain’s example of coexistence, conflict and intersection between Christianity, Judaism and Islam, as well as by its attempt to build a coherent new Christian Empire made of diverse peoples.
With the invaluable help of fascinating resources such as translated archives of the Spanish Inquisition, treatises, chronicles, diaries, sermons, admonitions and “forbidden” books, you will be able to explore how women and men of very diverse backgrounds conspired against the official.
They often sacrificed their own life in the process of proposing alternative ways of thinking and being in an unforgiving context of rampant orthodoxy and brutal repression and punishment of those who strived to be different.
HI6031 -
Recording the Past: Making Your Own History Documentary (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will appeal to anyone interested in telling stories.
It will help you think about how your existing historical skills can be applied beyond university, while equipping you with experience of project management, team building, and working with a range of non-university stakeholders.
This module gives students the opportunity to make their own short audio documentary.
Students pitch, script, record, and edit their own documentaries using audio equipment and free, open-source, cross-platform audio software.
Students will be given a broad theme (such as the 1970s and the Northeast of England) and will then generate a proposal and ‘pitch’ this to the class.
Following selection, groups will then work on developing a script and identifying interviewees.
Teams will produce their documentaries by dividing up the production responsibilities, so that students gain not only experience of teamwork but also of making a specific contribution to the project.
Across the semester, the class will progress through the stages of pre- and post-production together week-by-week.
Portable recording equipment will be made available and students will be (i) instructed on using industry-standard audio equipment; (ii) classes on ethics and oral history techniques; (ii) training on how to use editing software.
At the same time, the class will both engage with relevant literature and listen to a range of audio documentary in order to better understand creative and production issues.
The emphasis in this module will be both on the finished documentary but also on the process involved and the skills acquired along the way.
[250] words]
HI6037 -
Environmental disaster in modern Britain (Optional,20 Credits)
Sometimes it can seem that concern about climate change and the broader environmental crisis is a recent phenomenon whose effects are largely felt in other parts of the world.
This module challenges these assumptions.
You will learn about the origins of these concerns in their British context through five environmental disasters that shaped Britain after the Second World War.
They are the devastating east coast floods of 1953, the collapse of the spoil heap onto a school at Aberfan in Wales in 1966, the wrecking of the Torrey Canyon, an oil tanker, off the Cornish coast in 1967, the near-extinction of birds of prey as a consequence chemical pesticides in the 1950s and 60s, and the hurricane that caused widespread destruction to woods and forests in 1987.
You will spend two weeks on each of these case studies.
The first week will focus on the event itself and its human and non-human causes and costs.
The second week will focus on the event’s long-term political, social, and cultural consequences.
Among the questions you’ll consider are: How did public opinion and the media respond to these disasters?
What short and long-term effects did they have on government policy?
In what ways did these disasters catalyse the development of the modern environmental movement?
How has our understanding of what constitutes a natural disaster changed over time?
You will learn about the historical development of theories of climate change and you will be able to contextualise historically the environmental crisis that is shaping political culture today and develop a greater understanding of why it is so difficult to agree on possible solutions.
HI6042 -
How to Kill a King: Monarchies in Crisis, 1547-1689 (Optional,20 Credits)
Being an early modern king could be dangerous.
Over the course of the period, monarchs were executed, assassinated, and deposed.
While Mary Queen of Scots and Charles I lost their heads, boy-king Louis XIV pretended to be asleep as the angry Parisian mob entered his bedroom during the Fronde and James I narrowly escaped being blown up by the Gunpowder Plot.
Even if not resolved in loss of life or deposition, monarchical crises that gripped early modern Europe posed a significant challenge to royal authority and legitimacy.
These moments of crisis were connected to the changing nature of royal power, redefined in clashes between monarchs and their subjects exacerbated by the Reformation, dynastic politics, the changing relationship between monarchs and nobles, the emerging concept of the state and new ideas about how it should be governed.
Over the course of this module you will examine monarchical crises through case studies including the executions of Jane Grey and Mary Stuart, assassinations of Henri III and Henri IV, the English Civil War and Glorious Revolution, the Fronde, and the Defenestration of Prague and deposition of the Winter King, Frederick V.
We will consider the causes, outcomes, and representations of these crises through a variety of sources, including pamphlets, chronicles, letters, and images.
We will also consider the representation of these events in the modern media such as film, television, and fiction writing.
HI6049 -
Modern India: Making the World's Biggest Democracy (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn how the world’s biggest democracy came into being, starting with the successful struggle for independence and going up to the 21st century.
You will develop a broad understanding of India’s postcolonial politics, culture, economy and society.
Using a diverse range of materials, you will analyse how the British Empire’s ‘Jewel in the Crown’ established itself as a postcolonial democratic republic amidst numerous obstacles, tensions and conflicts.
The first half of the module introduces you to the contemporary history of India through five episodes, which help us to understand key issues like decolonisation, secularism, corruption and liberalisation.
The second half of the module considers six themes, exploring how these tell us different things about India in the second-half of the 20th century.
Chronologically, the module begins with anti-colonial nationalism of Mahatma Gandhi and others, from around the 1930s onwards.
The module then covers almost the entire period of independent India, from the creation of the republic and partition of the subcontinent in 1947, right up to 2019 – the year in which the current Hindu nationalist BJP government won a second consecutive landslide victory, marking for many the demise of India as a secular, multicultural democracy.
The second half of the module covers six major themes: Gender, Caste, Migration, Conflict, Communalism, and Environment.
Exploring the recent history of India through these different lenses provides new angles for understanding the ‘world’s largest democracy’ from a range of diverse perspectives.
HI6050 -
From Grand Tours to Dirty Weekends: Travellers and Tourists in Britain, Ireland and Beyond (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will discover how the histories of travel and tourism are deeply connected to the making of modern Britain and Ireland.
You will explore the history of tourism from its eighteenth-century origins, when seaside towns and spas welcomed their first visitors and British and Irish aristocrats embarked on Grand Tours of Europe.
You will learn how British and Irish landscapes were made iconic by Romantic writers, and how the development of steamships, railways, roads, bicycles, and motor travel revolutionised the way in which journeys were experienced and narrated.
You will discover how the royal tourism of Queen Victoria and her descendants helped strengthen the political union of the United Kingdom, and how the tourism industry forged cross-border links, promoted cooperation, and encouraged dialogue between Northern Ireland and the Irish Free State after the Partition of Ireland in 1921.
You will also learn how tourism was connected to the expansion of the British Empire, as travellers on Thomas Cook’s tours followed missionaries, traders, and empire builders to the Middle East, Africa, and India.
You will consider how Black British travellers have experienced city space and the countryside in different ways to their white counterparts, and the photography of Ingrid Pollard will prompt you to think about the relationship between race and national identity in Britain today.
You will learn about key concepts and debates in the history of tourism, such as mobility, authenticity, landscape and place, gender, post-colonialism, the interaction of ‘hosts’ and ‘guests’, and the growing importance of travel as part of individual and national identity.
You will engage with a wide variety of primary source material, from personal travel accounts, guidebooks, and timetables to the rich visual and material culture of postcards, illustrations, paintings, photographs, and poster artwork.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/english-literature-and-history-ba-hons-uusegl2htr:
UCAS Code QV31

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/english-literature-ba-hons-uusegl1:
UCAS Code Q320
As the degree programme involves reading and analysing literary and critical articles, students are expected to purchase or print copies of primary materials (novels, collections of poetry, plays, etc.) for their own personal use in seminars to allow for annotation and close engagement, in seminars and individual study.
The combined cost of purchasing and/or printing primary texts is approximately £100 per year, though this figure depends on editions purchased and can be reduced significantly by using the library, accessing e-books, purchasing secondhand,  and locating articles electronically where possible and appropriate.
If students were to take the Student Tutoring option in their second year they would have to pay for their own travel costs to and from placements.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/english-literature-dtfegl6:
Stories powerfully shape our experiences and identities in the modern world.
Books and films instruct us about how the voices of the past inform the present and the future.
They tell us about politics, gender, sexuality and race, our landscape, environment and the digital.
Stories are told about places and people, but also show how modern myths are made.
How can we read such stories critically?
English Literature at Northumbria gives you the key skills to navigate and offer a critique of narrative and storytelling.
How is literature politicised?
How are classic texts adapted for the contemporary moment?
Literature’s continued relevance is everywhere.
Our course gives you the skills to understand the importance of literature: who has the authority to influence, and with what motives.
Culminating in a major piece of research of your own, you will shape debate and ideas in your chosen field of literary studies, showing mastery of the discipline and an ability to redefine our approach to the stories that shape our world.
You will be taught by internationally recognised scholars who are at the cutting edge in their field.
Our modules draw your ideas and our research specialisms together, allowing you to develop your ideas within communities of research and new ideas.
The Humanities department is home to many exciting research groups.
Within English, we have
particular strengths in the Early Modern period, the Long Eighteenth Century and Romantic
Studies, Modern and Contemporary Writings, American Studies, Environmental Humanities and Gender Subjects.
The diversity
of our expertise means we can support you in pursuing your interests.
This English Literature
course is an ideal choice for anyone interested in literature and who wants to
develop a mastery of the subject.
Whether you aspire to pursue higher research,
embark on a publishing Masters or leverage your advanced cultural and
intellectual skills in various professional settings, this program offers a
well-rounded foundation for success
You might, want to develop your employability prospects or be interested in continuing your studies at PhD level, but are still looking for inspiration on exactly where to focus.
The MA will also provide you with the professional skills to succeed within teaching, marketing, publishing, museums/archives, public policy, management, among many others.
Watch Programme Leader Dr Rosie White tell us about this Masters in a Minute (or so...) and then hear about Emma's experience as a student on the course.
This heightened awareness is facilitated through examining literature produced within a wide range of contexts: different periods; geographical locations; as well as a variety of social backgrounds (institutional, gendered, private, public, domestic).
This wide-ranging critical examination opens up new perspectives on literary texts and provides you with the strategies needed to discuss literature in expert and critically informed ways.
The MA offers distinctive research-informed modules from a pool which is reviewed on an annual basis to ensure the quality of the learning experience, while the core modules Critical Contexts and Research Methods: Traditional and Digital will run in all years.
Each MA module is reflective of areas of staff expertise, ranging from the gory delights of the Gothic to how associations between authors and locations lead to the development of literary heritage sites, such as Dove Cottage.
Northumbria’s Humanities department works with a range of cultural partners including New Writing North, the co-operative movement, Tyne & Wear Archives and Museums and Shandy Hall, providing students with direct industry exposure and live project opportunities.
Here are a few of the academics who will be teaching you on the MA.
Dr Adam Hansen
Dr Helen Williams
Dr Kiriaki (Korina) Massoura
Get to know two of our teaching staff as they tell you a bit about their research interests, and the thriving academic community at Northumbria.
English Literature MA students, as part of Northumbria’s Humanities department, will have access to the new Institute for Humanities which houses a range of specialist research resources.
Furthermore, as an MA student in English Literature you will engage with the activities of the Institute for Humanities , which is home to five international journals in English studies and which regularly hosts an exciting range of seminars, symposia and conferences on topics as varied as Memory, Heritage and Identity; Transnationalism and Societal Change; Digital Humanities; Medical Humanities; and American Studies.
Eighteenth Century and Romantic Studies Research Group
Modern and Contemporary Writings
Gendered Subjects Research Group
In addition to these personal skills, you will have demonstrated a critical awareness of the current research and scholarship within your discipline, facilitating your ability to interpret knowledge in a variety of professional fields.
The MA builds on undergraduate skills, distinguished by the level of intensity, complexity, and density of study.
Advanced communication skills and media literacy must be demonstrated along with exceptional ability for time management, ethical and professional understanding, and highly developed research and inquiry skills.
There are considerable opportunities for you to advance your studies further, and advice in writing PhD and funding applications is available.
The course offers a qualification that may enhance promotion prospects in some professions – most notably teaching, professional research, museums/archives, public policy, and project management.
Read about the experiences of some of our alumni, and discover more about how our Careers and Employment team can help you prepare for life after graduation.
Dr Megan Sormus
PhD in English Literature, MA English Literature alumni
My time studying at Northumbria was one of the most fulfilling times of my life.
It allowed me to develop the analytical and research skills necessary for becoming a good prospect for employers.
It  has also opened the door to further, vocational study.
Julie Orme
MA English Literature alumni
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree in English, or a related discipline.
As the degree programme centres on reading and analysing literary and critical articles, students are expected to purchase or print copies of primary materials (novels, collections of poetry, plays, etc.) for their own personal use in seminars to allow for annotation and close engagement.
The combined cost of purchasing and/or printing primary texts is approximately £1000 per year, though this figure depends on editions purchased and can be reduced significantly by using the library, accessing e-books and locating articles electronically where possible and appropriate.
EL7019 -
Research Methods: Traditional and Digital (Core,30 Credits)
On this module you will learn key approaches to English literary research – how to plan and carry out rigorous research using a variety of traditional and more modern tools and approaches.
The module’s content will help prepare you for the challenge of completing a successful dissertation by empowering your knowledge of and proficiency with literary research tools.
EL7021 -
In this module you will learn about some of the key ideas and theories that can help us understand theoretical and conceptual approaches to literary texts.
From week to week, readings of primary texts past and present will be informed by selected critical and theoretical work focussed on specific aspects of the material, such as ideological and discursive constructions of gender, race, class, and national identity.
This theoretical material will be provided in a Reading Pack of excerpted material, offering a representative sample of a range of thinkers’ work, and motivating further exploration of their ideas.
Seminars will allow in-depth discussion of the texts and concepts appropriate to Masters level study.
The module aims to problematise our assumptions about how literary texts are constructed in relation to ideological and discursive practices, and about the relationships between texts, theory and contexts.
It enables you to acquire skills necessary to analyse literature at the Masters level, using sophisticated, appropriate, and up-to-date critical and theoretical approaches
EL7022 -
MA English Literature Dissertation (Core,60 Credits)
This module consists of a 15,000 word dissertation leading to the award of MA in English Literature The dissertation provides the students with the opportunity to produce an extended piece of research on a topic of their own choosing related to English literature.
Students will operate at a higher level of independent learning and research than in the taught modules, albeit with the support of a supervisor who has specialist knowledge in the student’s chosen area of interest.
The Dissertation is the final part of the MA, and is the culmination of the programme in terms of length, the degree of specialization in subject, complexity of argument and depth of research.
Work on the dissertation is supported and enhanced by assessments on the other MA modules, particularly the Research Methods module.
During the supervisory sessions students will be encouraged to: •	Tackle problems •	Outline plans •	Submit timely drafts •	Balance research and writing •	Think critically about the specific problems raised by research •	Apply appropriate methodological and theoretical approaches to underpin students’ their research •	Demonstrate acuity in selecting approaches, methods, concepts and theories.
EL7053 -
The World in Print (Optional,30 Credits)
This module looks in depth at the ways in which literary authors contributed to the transformation in understanding of the place of humanity in the world.
Technological, legal and commercial developments meant that print was more prolific in the eighteenth century than ever before.
This gave authors new opportunities to explore, construct and query Empire, class, gender, and the natural world.
Composed of two interconnected themes, each of which is key to the eighteenth-century world in print, and which represent the research strengths of the department, this module offers an advanced insight into the ways in which the world was mediated by print in the eighteenth century.
Through analysing and juxtaposing important representative texts and associated recent critical and theoretical literature, you will consolidate and expand your knowledge of the period’s literature and develop a sophisticated understanding of the current state of the field.
The module will be comprised of two of the following four themes, depending upon staff availability.
The indicative reading list for each unit is as follows, and each text has been (or if replaced, will be) carefully chosen to cover more than one theme: 1.
New Worlds Mary Wortley Montagu, Turkish Embassy Letters (written 1716-18, published 1763) Daniel Defoe, Robinson Crusoe (1719) Charlotte Lennox, The Life of Harriot Stuart, Written by Herself (1750) Phillis Wheatley and Hannah More, selected poems 2.
The Natural World Oliver Goldsmith, The Deserted Village (1770) Gilbert White, The Natural History of Selborne (1789) Jane Austen, Mansfield Park (1816) John Clare, Selected Poems (1820–41) 3.
The Beau Monde Eliza Haywood, The City Jilt; or, The Alderman Turn'd Beau (1726) Alexander Pope, Moral Essays (1731-35) Richard Brinsley Sheridan, The Rivals (1775) Frances Burney, Evelina (1778) 4.
Women in the World Laetitia Pilkington, extracts from Memoirs of Laetitia Pilkington (1748) Sarah Scott, Millennium Hall (1762) Mary Wollstonecraft, Maria: or, The Wrongs of Woman (1798) Anon., The Woman of Colour, A Tale (1808) All modules at Northumbria include a range of reading materials that you are expected to engage with.
The reading list for this module can be found at:  http://readinglists.northumbria.ac.uk.
Indicative list of print history works for assignment one: Elizabeth Eisenstein, The Printing Press as an Agent of Change (1979) Margaret J.M.
Ezell, Social Authorship and the Advent of Print (2003) Adrian Johns, The Nature of the Book: Print and Knowledge in the Making (1998) David McKitterick, Print, Manuscript and the Search for Order, 1450-1830 (2003) The Multigraph Collective, Interacting with Print: Elements of Reading in the Era of Print Saturation (2017)
EL7055 -
Literature and Social Justice (Optional,30 Credits)
Can writing – or reading – change the world?
This module will help you develop advanced skills in interpreting, evaluating and communicating how texts from within and beyond the Western tradition can register (and problematise) commitments to changing their political and social contexts.
As you progress through the module you will attend to the ways a diverse range of texts promote, celebrate, or inhibit and ‘contain’ the drive for social justice, and how ‘political’ works employ writerly techniques to effect social change.
In turn, you will explore ways to make cultural production and reception impactful and effective in the world beyond academia.
This will involve developing a model of social justice through reading across and within literary forms, genres and socio-cultural contexts, and developing your abilities to share your knowledge about the literatures of social justice in non-academic settings.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/english-literature-dtpegl6:
They tell us about politics, about gender, sexuality and race, our landscape, environment and the digital.
Our modules draw your ideas and our research specialisms together, allowing you to develop your own ideas within communities of research and new ideas.
Within English we have particular strengths in the Early Modern period, the Long Eighteenth Century, Modern and Contemporary, and Gender.
The diversity of our expertise means we can support you in pursuing your interests.
This course is an ideal choice for anyone interested in literature and who wants to develop a mastery of the subject as a basis for continuing higher research, or for taking your advanced cultural and intellectual skills into the marketplace.
You might you want to develop your employability prospects, or you might be interested in continuing your studies at PhD level, but are still looking for inspiration on exactly where to focus.
Mode of Study 2 years Part Time 3 other options available
The MA offers distinctive research-informed modules from a pool which is reviewed on an annual basis to ensure the quality of the learning-experience, while the core modules Critical Contexts and Research Methods: Traditional and Digital will run in all years.
Studying the MA part time provides for a greater degree of flexibility and you will be able to plan your time around other commitments.
Hear why others chose English Literature in this video .

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/english-literature-dtpegld6:
Studying via Distance Learning means you have access to a wide range of resources, staff experience and scheduled online classes, while working from wherever you are in the world.
Whether undertaken for the continued love of literature, or for personal or professional development, studying our Distance Learning MA English Literature will help you gain a more confident critical voice and advanced analytical and research skills.
Mode of Study 2 years Part Time (Distance Learning) 3 other options available
Watch Programme Leader Dr Rosie White tell us about this Distance Learning Masters in a Minute (or so...) and then hear about Emma's experience as a student on the course.
Here are a few of the academics who will be teaching you on the MA, and click through to 'All staff profiles' to see more staff with expertise in this area.
All staff profiles
Northumbria's 24/7 CSE-accredited University Library offers a comprehensive service to Distance Learning students, to ensure you can use the Library in a way that works for you.
Furthermore, as a MA student in English Literature you will engage with the activities of the Institute for Humanities , which is home to five international journals in English studies and which regularly hosts an exciting range of seminars, symposia and conferences on topics as varied as Memory, Heritage and Identity; Transnationalism and Societal Change; Digital Humanities; Medical Humanities; and American Studies.
Read about the experiences of some of our course alumni, and discover more about how the Careers and Employment team can support you as you prepare for life after graduation.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/english-literature-dtdegl6:
Mode of Study 1 year Full Time (Distance Learning) 3 other options available
The MA offers distinctive research-informed modules from a pool which is reviewed on an annual basis to ensure the quality of the learning experience, while the core modules Critical Contexts and Research Methods: Traditional and Digital will run in all years.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/english-literature-mres-dtfeli7:
The English division in the Department of Humanities has a number of exciting and interdisciplinary research groups, with particular strengths in the Early Modern period, the Long Eighteenth Century, Modernism, Gender, and Popular Culture.
You’ll have the opportunity to develop your own scholarly interests by researching and writing a 20,000 word dissertation.
Recent MRes projects have encompassed a range of subjects including a feminist critique of the Tomb Raider video game franchise, the female authorship of eighteenth-century medical tracts, and an examination of loss in the works of Joseph Conrad, the role of children in Holocaust contemporary literature and
the use of violence in dystopias such as The Handmaid's Tale and The
Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes.
You might want to develop your employability prospects or be
interested in continuing your studies at PhD level, but are still looking for
inspiration on exactly where to focus and how to acquire the necessary research
skills and methods.
Whether taken for the love of literature, or for personal or
professional development, the MRes will enhance skills such as communication,
self-management and project planning.
By progressing through this robust and dynamic framework of research training, and building on your strong undergraduate degree, you will gain an understanding of research methods, contemporary digital literacies, and acquire expert professional skills in communication, self-management, and project planning.
Our assessment is carefully designed to promote and nurture student-centred learning, and is tailored to the diverse needs of our students.
Assessment encompasses traditional and innovative modes, including a 20,000 word dissertation (or equivalent project), oral and written presentations, critical reviews, and portfolios of work.
Many staff are well-known figures in their own research fields and the department boasts a significant number of staff at professorial level.
English Literature MRes students, as part of Northumbria’s Humanities department, will have access to the new Institute for Humanities which houses a range of specialist research resources.
Furthermore, as an MRes student in English Literature you will engage with the activities of the Institute for Humanities , which is home to five international journals in English studies and which regularly hosts an exciting range of seminars, symposia and conferences on topics as varied as Memory, Heritage and Identity; Transnationalism and Societal Change; Digital Humanities; Medical Humanities; and American Studies.
Early Modern Research Group
Long 18th Century Research Group
Modern Contemporary Literature
The MRes builds on undergraduate skills, distinguished by the level of intensity, complexity, and density of study.
From the start of the course you are encouraged to access the central university Careers and Employment Service , to seek advice on areas such as career guidance.
Helen Maria Storey came to Northumbria as a mature MRes student.
She says, “I would never have achieved what I have done without the support of Northumbria University and the staff encouragement to continue.
…[I enjoyed most] the opportunities to meet acclaimed academics at seminars and conferences that I never would have had the chance to meet.
Don't think about it, just do it!"
A minimum of a 2:1 honours degree in English, or a related discipline.
Students may wish to but are not compelled to purchase supplemental material for research, such as primary texts specific to the project, for their own personal use to allow for annotation and close engagement.
The combined cost of purchasing and/or printing primary texts is approximately £100, though this figure depends on editions purchased and can be reduced significantly by using the library, purchasing second hand copies accessing e-books and locating articles electronically where possible and appropriate.
EL7028 -
In this module you will identify a research question and produce a 20,000 word dissertation, or 10,000 word Dissertation with major project for designated programme pathways, which represents the culmination of your postgraduate studies on the MRes programme.
As an exercise in research it is intended to develop further your research skills and your ability to work independently.
Dissertation topics will be supervised by an appropriate tutor, who will guide you through the various stages of formulating, researching and writing this substantial piece of work.
You will operate at a higher level of independent learning and research than in the taught modules, albeit with the support of a supervisor who has specialist knowledge in your chosen area of interest.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/english-literature-dtpeli7:
You might want to
develop your employability prospects or be interested in continuing your
studies at PhD level, but are still looking for inspiration on exactly where to
focus and how to acquire the necessary research skills and methods.
You can explore some of the key themes here .

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-entrepreneurship-and-innovation-management-with-advanced-practice-dtseim6:
If you are an aspiring entrepreneur who is interested in doing things differently and you have a keen interest in creative thinking and innovation, then MSc Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management will give you the tools to succeed.
You may be a recent or experienced graduate within the field of business and management looking to expand your entrepreneurial knowledge.
Perhaps you have ambitions to start your business but want to learn from the leading academics and research in the field.
On this Postgraduate Entrepreneurship Course, you will be a part of a diverse international cohort of students, giving you an invaluable opportunity to share experiences and discover new ideas with people from different cultural backgrounds whilst developing your cultural intelligence.
In the second year, you will have an opportunity to undertake an Industry Consultancy Project allowing you to apply the knowledge and skills you have gained during your first year of study to a real-life industry issue from a range of employers.
Working to a client's brief, with academic supervision, you will advance your ability to apply theoretical concepts and research skills to produce a practical recommendation to a challenging problem.*
You will learn about the principles, theories and practices used by entrepreneurial and innovative organisations.
This includes frameworks for reviewing, reflecting, analysing and critiquing your own entrepreneurial mindset, intentions and potential ventures.
During this Entrepreneurship Management Master's you will be
set entrepreneurship and innovation challenges to work on contemporary soco-economic
problems identified in the local community, internationally and within the
business community to achieve specified aims.
You will learn how to work
effectively within dynamic teams; how to adopt a design-ethos in problem
solving; and how to lead entrepreneurially.
You will develop practical skills to promote
creative thinking through practice-based elements in which real world problems
are introduced for the testing of creative team-working techniques.
Entrepreneurial skills will be combined with theory and an overview of the policy environment to equip you for a variety of employment options or for further research.
You will be prepared for employment in a variety of settings from self-employment, as part of a new venture, or as a motivated and valued entrepreneurial team member in a private business or public organisation.
Why choose Northumbria to study Entrepreneurship and
Innovation Management MSc?
An
induction to Northumbria's Entrepreneurship Management Masters Degree, to Newcastle Business School and to Northumbria
University is provided prior to the commencement of teaching.
This
allows you the opportunity to discuss expectations (learning, assessment,
contact) with your Programme Leader, explore issues relating to the mechanics
of the programme (timetabling, attendance) and provides you with guidance on
practical help in terms of study skills, assignment submissions, as well as
giving you guidance over extenuating circumstances that may impair performance
during the programme.
Our staff are actively
pushing at the frontiers of knowledge and generating new concepts and insights.
Over 40% of our publication outputs and 60% of our impact case studies have
been assessed as internationally excellent or world leading.
You are supported on this programme from the outset by a
programme team which brings a mix of strong research experience on
entrepreneurship and innovation and practical experience in setting up and
running their own businesses.
The programme is linked with the Northumbria Centre for Innovation, Regional Transformation and Entrepreneurship (iNCITE) a cutting edge research centre within the Business School with over 30 staff.
Dr Nikolaos Goumagias
Dr Nicholas Wong
Dr Kayleigh Watson
The 24/7 University Library achieves some of the
highest levels of student satisfaction in the UK and has held the Cabinet
Office accreditation for Customer Service Excellence since 2010.
Technology Enhanced Learning (TEL) is embedded
throughout with tools such as the ‘Blackboard’ eLearning Portal and electronic
reading lists that will guide your preparation for seminars and independent
research.
Our use of lecture capture software will help you revise challenging
material.
Further
support is available via the considerable electronic resources provided by the
University.
Explore our Business facilities in Newcastle.
As a
master’s student you will develop your research skills to a new and higher
level.
Your research supervisor will help you submit a proposal for your master’s
dissertation or consultancy project and then discuss its development through to
completion in the final semester.
If you
decide on a master’s consultancy project, rather than a dissertation, you will
still undertake primary and desk research.
Through your reading, reflection and
research, you will be expected to show a deep understanding of the issues that
are involved in the client brief.
Throughout Northumbria Universities Postgraduate Entrepreneurship you will be an active participant in the on-going
research agenda that’s at the heart of Newcastle Business School.
With
conferences and research events regularly taking place, and with staff
discussing their own research as it relates to the topics you’ll study, there’s
a strong emphasis on engaging in up-to-date enquiry-based learning.
To further enhance your
employability, we offer the opportunity to undertake a master’s consultancy
project as an alternative to the traditional dissertation.
You’ll work in a
small group, typically no more than five people, and tackle a live project from
a host organisation under the mentorship of a member of our academic team.
The
project can be an excellent vehicle for you to relate theory to practice while
developing transferable skills.
This new programme is intended
either to help you in your journey to setting up your own business, or to take
a leadership role with an entrepreneurial organisation.
If you decide to start
up your own business, it’s good to know that the combined turnover of our
graduates’ start-up companies is higher than that of any other UK university.
Northumbria's Postgraduate in Innovation Management could also lead you
to a postgraduate research degree such as an MPhil, PhD and Professional
Doctorate.
English Language requirements:
Students will have access to online reading lists that link to many eBooks and journal articles provided through University-funded subscriptions, however, if a student so wishes, they may purchase texts.
The optional text costs would amount to approximately £500.
SM4004 -
Entrepreneurship - Context, Process and Practice (Core,20 Credits)
This module aims to increase your awareness and understanding of the issues and challenges of starting up and operating a small business and being entrepreneurial.
As entrepreneurship requires a strong focus on practice, this will be achieved by providing you with a practical insight into setting up and trading as a small business, raising awareness of self-employment as a viable career option.
You will learn about entrepreneurship as a process, the entrepreneurial person, ideation, and opportunity recognition, pitching and presenting, business planning, idea validation, resource acquisition, market analysis, customers and selling, entrepreneurial marketing, networking, and accelerators, incubation, and support.
You will learn how to identify, explore, and progress your own business idea and be supported in your experience of planning this idea over the course of the module, recognising patterns and opportunities in complex situations and environments.
At the end of this module, you will have a deeper understanding of real-life entrepreneurial issues and how they can be addressed.
The development of entrepreneurial awareness, capability and mind-set which the module seeks to promote lends itself to application not only in new venture creation or development but also within traditional employment contexts.
SM4023 -
This is a 20-credit module running in the second semester of the MSc Business with programme and is developed for those of you who have prior awareness of entrepreneurship and seek a deeper understanding of contemporary issues of entrepreneurship and small business subjects.
The aim of the module is to introduce you to the main theoretical concepts of entrepreneurship and small business – Entrepreneurship Characteristics; Creativity; Risk and Strategic Options; Technology Innovation; Networks; Sustainability; Orientation – and show how each can contribute to the activities, success or otherwise of entrepreneurship.
On completion of the module you will be able to demonstrate critical thinking skills suitable for strategic leadership roles adept at organisational change and innovation and utilise oral, written and communication skills.
The content of the module comprises of a range of components which are listed below.
Entrepreneurship Introduction to the module; Entrepreneurship; context; entrepreneurial revolution; influences; Differences between entrepreneurs & owner-managers’; characteristics and traits, skills; stakeholders; models of entrepreneurship and critical thinking & summative assessment guidance.
Strategies & Models of Entrepreneurship The Entrepreneurial Environment, Entrepreneurial Strategies; Objectives and Competitive Advantage; Entrepreneurial Productivity & Performance.
Characteristics and Activities of Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship Traits and Behaviour; Motivations and Values; Growth & Skills; Entrepreneurial Leadership Skills; Corporate Entrepreneurship; Culture; Structure & Control; Types of Entrepreneurs including Social and Civic Entrepreneurs.
Entrepreneurship Technology & Innovation Role of technology innovation & Change; Technology Industries Leadership; High Tech; HEI-SME knowledge interactions; Entrepreneurial State; Benefits & Limitations of Open Innovation and Business Clusters, Creativity and Knowledge; Diffusion and Adoption.
Entrepreneurial Networks and Open Innovation Understanding Social Networks and their contribution to Entrepreneurship.
Weak and Strong Ties; Enterprise Partnerships & Policy; Public Entrepreneurship; Business Ventures; Motivation & Engagement.
Public Sector Entrepreneurship Social Innovation; Public Sector Entrepreneurs; Regional Policy.
International Entrepreneurship Globalisation & International Entrepreneurship; International Start-up; Models of Internationalisation; Influence of Networks and Learning Theories.
Entrepreneurial Orientation Entrepreneurial Synergies ; Psychological Orientation ; Gender in Entrepreneurship.
Critical Thinking Skills The module seeks to foster your critical thinking, analytical, synthesis and reflection skills through developing your awareness of contemporary issues of entrepreneurship and small business to ensure a critical appreciation of the entrepreneurship and small business field of study.
SM9713 -
Innovation and Creativity (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will gain a comprehensive understanding of the nature and practice of innovation and creativity and how it can be applied in the innovation process, whether within the context of a new venture or an existing organisation.
SM9723 -
Entrepreneurship & Innovation Challenge (Core,20 Credits)
This module uses entrepreneurship and innovation challenges to develop your professional mindset, capabilities and attributes.
Each challenge will involve you working in teams to achieve specified aims and will focus around contemporary real world socio-economic problems identified in the local community, internationally and within the business community.
During the module you will analyse your entrepreneurial mindset and capabilities and develop key skills around entrepreneurial learning.
You will build on this understanding of your entrepreneurial self to one where you can assemble and work with teams to complete entrepreneurship and innovation challenges.
You will be involved in 4 challenges and be supported through lectures and seminars that will deliver relevant theory and practice on: entrepreneurial mindset and capabilities; how to work effectively within dynamic teams; how to adopt a design-ethos in problem solving; and in how to lead entrepreneurially.
During the process you will  use your understanding of your entrepreneurial self to enhance your skills profile in relation to the global graduate market.
SM9726 -
Digital Innovation and Enterprise (Core,20 Credits)
This module aims to provide you with the knowledge and skills to understand how digitalisation, across the whole economy and government and the third sector, has resulted in wide-spread changes.
These changes have led to wide-spread benefits, but also a series of challenges that impact on the ability of individuals and organisations to benefit from the digitalisation that is occurring.
The module is delivered through a lectures and workshops, covering the following issues: •	The scale and scope of electronic commerce •	ICT-mediated business models •	Digital platforms – growth, ‘winner takes all’ strategy and strategies •	Models of information systems within organisations •	Digitalisation – drivers, challenges and changing socio-technical structures •	Data – monetisation, flows, uses within organisations Through this module you will gain skills to enable you to analyse and appreciate the emergence and development of digitalisation within organisations.
On completing the module, you will appreciate the scope and dynamism of digitalisation.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-entrepreneurship-and-innovation-management-dtfeim6:
If you are an aspiring entrepreneur who has an interest in innovation and creative thinking, then we will equip you with the tools to succeed.
On this Entrepreneurship Management Masters, you will be a part of a diverse international cohort of students, giving you an invaluable opportunity to share experiences and discover new ideas.
During this MSc in Entrepreneurship and Innovation, you will be set challenges to work on contemporary problems identified throughout the industry.
You will learn how to work effectively within dynamic teams, how to problem-solve and how to lead entrepreneurially.
You will develop practical knowledge and skills to promote creative thinking through practice-based elements.
Real-world problems will be introduced to test your creative team-working techniques.
You will be prepared for employment in a variety of settings.
This will include self-employment or part of a new business start-up.
The Entrepreneurship Management Master's could also lead you to a postgraduate research degree such as an MPhil, PhD and Professional Doctorate.
See other similar courses you may be interested in: International Business Management MSc
Hear all about why we think responsible business matters.
An
induction to the programme, to Newcastle Business School and to Northumbria
University is provided prior to the commencement of teaching.
This
allows you the opportunity to discuss expectations (learning, assessment,
contact) with your Programme Leader, explore issues relating to the mechanics
of the programme (timetabling, attendance) and provides you with guidance on
practical help in terms of study skills, assignment submissions, as well as
giving you guidance over extenuating circumstances that may impair performance
during the Postgraduate Entrepreneurship Course.
You are supported on this Northumbria Entrepreneurship Management Master’s Degree from the outset by a
programme team which brings a mix of strong research experience on
entrepreneurship and innovation and practical experience in setting up and
running their own businesses.
The programme is linked with the Northumbria Centre for
Innovation, Regional Transformation and Entrepreneurship (iNCITE) a cutting edge research centre within the Business School
with over 30 staff.
The Entrepreneurship Management Master's could also lead you
to a postgraduate research degree such as an MPhil, PhD and Professional
Doctorate.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-environmental-science-extended-degree-uusxse1:
Z089
Geography and Environmental Sciences
The first entry for this course will be September 2026.
For September 2025 entry please visit Environmental Science BSc .
Are you passionate about tackling climate change, conserving
biodiversity, or developing green business strategies?
An Environmental Science
degree at Northumbria could be for you.
This course combines scientific knowledge with the skills to
communicate and advocate for change.
You’ll learn from international experts
and gain hands-on experience to solve real-world problems.
Accredited by the Chartered Institute of
Ecology and Environmental Management (CIEEM), our degree can open doors to careers with the Environment Agency, Wildlife
Trusts, consultancies, and more.
You’ll experience a mix of teaching methods,
including lectures, fieldwork, lab work, and seminars, with a strong emphasis
on experiential learning.
You can also take a sandwich year for work experience or
study abroad, boosting your future career prospects.
It includes a foundation year where you will explore a wide range of topics relating to environmental issues facing urban and rural environments and populations.
In the foundation year, you will gain an understanding of complex environmental challenges and contemporary environmental issues.
You will also explore sustainability and sustainable development concepts while gaining practical experience through fieldwork, using both quantitative and qualitative methods.
This year will allow you to connect the physical and human aspects of the environment, offering opportunities to link theory, practice, and application.
Kuba Grygiel talks about why he choose Northumbria University to study Environmental Science.
Luke tells you about what he enjoys most about the Environmental Science course and why he choose Northumbria to study it.
KE3001 -
Environmental Geography (Core,20 Credits)
You will develop a broad appreciation of a range of complex environmental problems and with experience of hands-on fieldwork coupled with teaching from staff members involved in cutting-edge research in geography.
Selected topics will be further developed through the application of a range of quantitative and qualitative methods as part of fieldwork activities to put theoretical learning into practice.
The module provides you with a basic introduction to the scientific and social processes underpinning both local, as well as global environmental problems.
On completion of the module, your ability to link theory and application, with an informed concern about sustainable development in an urban context will serve to enhance your future employment prospects.
KE3003 -
Post Industrial Landscapes of the North East (Core,20 Credits)
This module covers a variety of areas that are relevant for understanding post-industrialism.
These may include: uneven geographic development and de-industrialisation; urban transformations such as regeneration; socio-cultural transformation, identity and multiculturalism; energy transitions and infrastructural change; and the environmental impacts of industrial activity, such as pollution and contamination.
These various dimensions of North East’s contemporary reinvention will be discussed in the wider context of changing philosophies and instruments of government policy intervention.
The module will be delivered through a mix of lectures, seminars and field teaching.
It is assessed by a portfolio and an examination.
Your learning will be further supported and enhanced through engagement with a range of interactive online resources available via the module eLP site.
KE3004 -
Transition Skills and Fieldwork in Geography and Environmental sciences (Core,20 Credits)
Through KE3004 Transition Skills and Fieldwork in Geography and Environmental Sciences, we aim to support you to develop a range of skills which will be critical to your progression from your foundation degree onto your subsequent undergraduate programme.
As part of this shift in academic culture, you will be encouraged to take increasing responsibility for your own learning, and through the development of reflective practice and feedback, you will develop ways of monitoring your own academic performance and progress.
You will learn and develop the key intellectual skills and personal attributes required for effective study in geography or environmental sciences and future graduate employment.
Specifically, the module will cover: managing the transition to university life; key skills, such as time-management, academic literature search, essay writing, referencing, communication and presentation skills, field-observation and team-work; and how geographical and environmental perspectives inform our understanding of contemporary real-world issues.
KE3005 -
Understanding and Communicating Environmental Issues (Core,20 Credits)
You will develop a deep scientific understanding of various current environmental issues and learn how to communicate these to a primary/middle school audience.
The module starts with introductory lectures and guided reading to engage you with a variety of environmental issues.
You will then move onto small group seminars designed to give you the skillset to tackle the module assessment: to communicate one of these environmental issues to a primary/middle school audience.
As you explore the scientific background to the environmental issues, a staff member will support you as you develop your leaflet or poster to communicate the environmental issue.
The module culminates when your leaflet or poster is sent out to a local primary/middle school and you receive the feedback from the schoolteacher as to whether your hard work has helped the children to learn about the environmental issue.
No pressure!
Environmental issues that could be covered: Glacier retreat Sea-level Earthquakes Biodiversity Pollution Water resources Pollinator decline Climate change Natural hazards The exact five environmental issues covered will depend on which research-active staff members are teaching on the module each year.
KE3006 -
Sustainable Development (Core,20 Credits)
Sustainability and sustainable development are ideas which have become increasingly important for the disciplines of Geography and Environmental Science.
National and international targets for sustainability are core to urban and rural land management.
Sustainability is not just about technology, energy efficiency, minimising waste and resource use; although these are important parts of sustainability.
Sustainable development also needs to protect nature (biodiversity) and benefit local communities.
There is an increasing demand for professionals who understand and can apply sustainability to the work environment.
This means understanding aspects of geography, risk, environmental issues, and social factors, such as population demographics, quality of life, transport and congestion.
In this module you will: •	Explore the concepts of sustainability and sustainable development and how they apply in practice •	Be introduced to a range of topics and concepts within the field of sustainable development in local and global settings •	Work as part of a team, to apply your understanding of these topics and concepts to complete a series of tasks •	Work individually to produce an online app using ArcGIS software •	Explore issues of sustainable development within the Newcastle-Gateshead conurbation
KE3007 -
Introduction to the study of Earth System Sciences (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about a variety of concepts and debates that have shaped current thinking and research in the Earth System Science.
Following an exploration of the subject of geology and physical geography, approaches to investigation, and relationships with other relevant subjects, you will focus on a range of more specific topics, including: •	Earth structure and origin •	Earth history and geological deep time.
•	Evolution of continents and oceans.
•	Rock cycle and plate tectonics.
•	Geohazards, Volcanism and Earthquakes •	Social vulnerability and resilience •	Disaster and risk management •	Landscape evolution •	Sediments and Sedimentary rocks, erosion and transport
KE4010 -
Academic Skills and Personal Development (BSc) (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will learn and develop the key intellectual skills and personal attributes required for effective study and future graduate employment.
Teaching, learning and assessment activities are tailored towards your own degree programme, linking to substantive core modules, thus providing an appropriate subject context for your studies.
The module aims to consolidate the process of induction onto your degree programme, thus supporting your transition from further to higher education.
As part of this shift in academic culture, you will be encouraged to take increasing responsibility for your own learning and through the development of reflective practice, develop ways of monitoring your own academic performance and progress.
Topics and issues covered include: • The skills and attributes of an independent scholar • Engaging with literature • Oral presentation and debating • Group working • Preparing for assessments • Self-reflection and using feedback
KE4011 -
Our Living Planet (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will learn about Our Living Planet and how it has been influenced by humans.
You will be introduced to a global overview of the complexity of life on Earth and how this has changed through time.
The wide-ranging and theoretical subject matter is grounded in real-life examples, including local environmental issues.
You will build on this through a series of lectures and seminars that allow you to explore and debate the complexities of the relationship between people and the environment.
You will also gain practical experience in taxonomy, field techniques and standard methodologies required for environmental science.
You will learn about key historical and contemporary debates relating to the environment and, where relevant, how these have informed policy and practice.
You will develop a much clearer sense of your own personal environmental values and your own perspectives in these broader debates.
You will learn about the contested nature of the environment and economic and social aspects of the natural environment.
Some of the themes that will be covered include: (as examples, staff dependent) - Patterns of life on earth in space and time - Ecosystems and ecological concepts: Arrangement of life on earth - Biodiversity: Role and current crisis - Ecosystem services and environmental change - The impacts of climate change - Human impacts on the environment - Carbon management - Poaching and wildlife crime - Basic habitat surveys These themes will provide you with a solid foundation to your degree and a broad background of knowledge that may be relevant to a range of environment-related jobs.
KE4012 -
Environmental Science Fieldwork (Core,20 Credits)
This module provides a practical experience in field techniques, data analysis and standard methodologies required for environmental science in field settings that explore a variety of habitats and management strategies in Cumbria.
Topics on this module include: - Ecosystem services and environmental change - Human impacts on the environment - Carbon management - Standard survey methodologies - Plant and animal identification - Ecological data analysis and presentation
KE4014 -
Introduction to Physical Environments (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn the basic concepts and principles of the physical environment, how these interact as part of the Earth System and are modified by human processes.
As you explore the Earth System today and in the past, you will discover a diverse range of atmospheric, land based and oceanic components that together form the physical environment.
Armed with this knowledge you will be able to begin to critically evaluate the evidence concerning processes, landforms and systems.
This will develop your problem solving skills and give you an international holistic view on the Earth as a system.
KE4015 -
Environmental Challenges - Global to Local (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about the fundamental principles of chemistry and physics governing natural environment, and interactions between geosphere and biosphere including anthropogenic impact.
You will learn key environmental analysis skills, including field and laboratory methods to obtain and examine both ecological and chemical materials.
You will develop skills to collect suitable environmental samples, and how to process and report on your findings.
Some of the key topics you will cover in lectures and seminars include: • Chemical composition of the natural environment.
• Interactions and feedbacks between the Earth's sub-systems' cycles, processes and "spheres" – in particular hydrosphere, lithosphere and biosphere • The chemistry of the global climate and processes affecting the release and sequestration of greenhouse gases.
• Pollution of surface water sediments, soils and groundwaters.
• Climate- and environment literacy.
• History of humans impacts on natural environment and processes.
The field- and laboratory-based skills will include: • Water, sediment and suspended matter sampling techniques • Field water measurements (pH, temperature, dissolved oxygen) • Laboratory measurements of water and sediment composition The developed soft skills will include: • Efficient planning and performing water- and sediment-sampling campaign (teamwork effort) • Integrating observational and analytical data • Assessing the river water quality • Contextualising local data in the reginal and global scope
KE4017 -
Measuring and mapping environmental systems (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will learn how to process and analyse a wide range of geographical and environmental data, including quantitative and spatial..
You will engage in teaching, learning and assessment activities applicable to all students of geography and environmental science.
The module aims to give you a broad introduction to data collection and analysis in the geographical and environmental sciences, which will form the basis of programme-specific training at levels 5 and 6.
Topics and issues covered include: • sources of geographical and environmental data; • quantitative data and analysis approaches; • spatial data and the nature of geographical information systems;
KE5023 -
KE5014 -
Fundamentals of Ecology (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn the key concepts, theories and practices within ecology – the science of the relationships among living organisms and their environment –that underpin our understanding of global biodiversity.
You will be shown plant and animal adaptations to their environment, how populations of animals and plants change, how species interact and how communities and ecosystems form and alter both in time and space.
You will learn a range of ecological skills e.g.
taxonomic identification, measuring species diversity and community similarity, which underpin vital practical questions such as the conservation of rare species, spread of disease and nature reserve management.
At the heart of the module is the need to understand how ecological systems work if we are going to conserve them.
Ultimately, the module will challenge you be become ecological researchers, to identify, explain, and apply essential ecological concepts to carry out a piece of detailed research not only as an assessment but also as a research contribution to the management of a local site.
This foundational knowledge, understanding, and skills will allow you to move out from the academy and become practicing ecologists.
KE5017 -
Earth Observation and GIS (Core,20 Credits)
This module is designed to teach you the concepts and techniques of spatial data handling and analysis using the techniques of remote sensing and image processing and Geographical Information Systems (GIS).
Adding to the cartographic skills and basic spatial analysis that you have learnt from level 4 (first year) you will be taught to carry out spatial analysis from a wider range of sources and types of social and scientific geographical data.
You will learn basic theoretical principles underpinning the use and application of digital datasets followed by more advanced techniques of image classification and spatial analysis.
You will be taught how to use industry standard computer software applied in research and the workplace that will allow you to manipulate and analyse those data.
In particular you will learn: • the key components of remote sensing acquisition and analysis/display; • theoretical background of datasets that can be generated and used to interpret change over space and time; • the techniques used to classify and analyse datasets; • key critical theoretical concepts associated with the types and associated use of digital data; and • the practical skills you need to interrogate and analyse data in order to answer spatial queries.
KE5029 -
Green cities and nature-based solutions (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about the ecological impact of cities and tools for enhancing urban biodiversity, liveability and sustainability.
The module begins with an introduction to global trends in urbanisation and the relevance of cities for realising the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
The module will then explore the multiple challenges posed by urbanisation and identify solutions to these challenges.
The two overarching questions we will seek to answer are: 1.
What are the key environmental, biodiversity and climate change challenges and opportunities facing cities?
How can nature-based solutions contribute to addressing the challenges and opportunities of urbanisation?
Skills developed include the ability to: •	Understand global trends in urbanisation and the relevance of cities for the UN Sustainable Development Goals •	Identify and assess the contribution of cities to climate change and strategies for mitigation and adaptation •	Understand what constitutes an urban ecosystem, and the key drivers of urban biodiversity •	Identify the benefits that urban ecosystems provide to society (“ecosystem services”) •	Assess the importance of governance, stewardship and environmental justice in cities •	Identify, use and assess relevant planning and policy tools and concepts, with an emphasis on nature-based solutions and green infrastructure •	Critically evaluate interventions to enhance urban nature to address societal challenges •	Develop in-depth specialist knowledge of techniques relevant to green cities and urban ecosystems
KE5030 -
Ecosystem Processes in the Anthropocene (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about key ecosystem processes, how they link to ecosystem services related to food production and land use management and how they are disrupted by human activities.
There are a wide range of topics,  we will consider human impacts to nutrient cycling, carbon sequestration, pollination, biodiversity and conservation for example, and how these intersect with environmental policy and regulation, as well as societal and economic factors.
The Anthropocene presents us with many global challenges, and understanding ecosystem function will provide sustainable solutions to manage land and water resources successfully.
In particular, you will learn laboratory techniques to assess human impact to ecosystem processes and how these are applied in land management decision-making tools.
KE5031 -
Biodiversity and Climate Change (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will learn about biodiversity and climate change: how we identify species, how we monitor species and how we can use that data to improve our environment.
The module begins with an introduction to biodiversity, climate, the tree of life and taxonomy.
This is followed by a series of in depth lectures on individual groups of organisms (groups covered dependent on staff specialisms).
The module then flows through three teaching “blocks”.
Each block will explore an aspect of biodiversity or climate change with practical work that will build into the module assignment.
At the end of each  block, you will be assessed by an individual interview or a concisely written professional report that makes recommendations for conservation, taking into account climate change.
KE5032 -
Practice, Research and Fieldwork (Core,20 Credits)
This module has three main elements.
First, you will extend your knowledge and deepen your understanding of a range of geographical and environmental concepts and issues, gaining real-world “in-the-field” experience.
There is a focus on the complexity and interconnectedness of issues and their management.
Second, you will gain experience of a variety of research approaches used in studying the environment, ranging from questionnaire design to protected area monitoring.
Third, you will develop your ability to design research projects and devise fieldwork and data analysis methods.
This will prepare you for carrying out your dissertation in final year.
The module also develops your skills in designing research projects, choosing and using a wide variety of geography and environment fieldwork techniques and data analysis and interpretation.
KE5060 -
Past Environments (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will explore a range of topics, such as: How the earth’s environments have changed in the past and the drivers of this change What methods can be used to reconstruct past environmental change and a critical understanding of the limitations and strengths of different methods How knowledge of historical environments provides context for understanding the modern environmental processes How we can apply understanding of how environments have changed in the past to address current societal challenges
KE5062 -
Water Resources (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn how water circulates through the earth system and how anthropogenic activities are influencing the distribution, timing, and quality of water available for society.
You will study a broad range of water environments and contexts including topics such as: •	Atmospheric water and precipitation •	Hydrological pathways through the landscape •	Water quality and pollution •	Urban water management policy and practice •	Water at the terrestrial/marine interface As a cross-cutting theme of the module you will critically examine the influence of people on the water cycle, exploring the nature of the ‘anthropocene’ and the pressures which are impacting water resources around the world.
KE5034 -
KE5054 -
Study Abroad Year (Optional,120 Credits)
KE5055 -
KE5056 -
KE6000 -
Geography and Environment Dissertation (Core,40 Credits)
This module is designed to support you in independently pursuing an original piece of research on a geographical or environmental topic of your own choice grounded in final year specialist option modules.
Dependent upon your programme of study, you will draw upon and develop your research skills in answering research questions/hypothesis on a dissertation topic within the social, humanities, natural and environmental disciplines.
You will develop expertise in: •	identifying a suitable topic and in reviewing critically the relevant academic literature; •	formulating research questions/hypotheses and appropriate methods of inquiry; •	collecting your own data and/or using existing data sets and/or engaging in an analysis of the research literature; •	the ability to analyse and interpret your results using appropriate quantitative, statistical and/or qualitative techniques, •	relating the findings to existing and up-to-date literature; •	oral, visual and written presentation of your research project; •	objectively appraising the ethical considerations of conducting research; and •	managing and implementing a large independent project.
KE6017 -
Development and Disasters (Optional,20 Credits)
You will learn about relationships between development and disasters to be able to analyse and respond to environmental and other catastrophes impacting on society, including through knowledge of their physical environmental, political and economic contexts.
The way that disasters can be prevented, their impact on people reduced and relief and recovery better provided post disaster forms an applied focus to this module.
Examples used include major hazards of environmental change, economic instability and conflict that disrupt human well-being over brief or long time-frames.
The module addresses the challenges and solutions prevalent in practice and policy environments for those engaging with the development and disaster reduction sector.
The content of this module is partly linked to work in this field through Northumbria’s ongoing facilitation of global disaster and development networks.
The module teaches that although hazards, risks and disasters impact society, this is offset by individuals, groups, institutions and organizations through disaster management, and by becoming resilient, healthy and creative.
Examples demonstrate the application of theory to practice in these relationships in both the economically wealthy and poorer parts of the world.
Approaches detailed within this framework include early warning systems, risk management, mitigation techniques, response and recovery actions as well as appropriate sustainable development actions.
The module draws from an interdisciplinary perspective making it suitable for those progressing from, or interested in pursuing physical environmental, economic or social aspects of development and disaster intervention.
The knowledge and skills learnt can be readily applied to careers relating to  this field.
KE6018 -
Advanced Geospatial Applications (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module, you will delve into the design and implementation of geospatial projects using evidence-based practices, building on the practical knowledge and techniques acquired in your second year (Level 5).
You will enhance your technical skills by learning advanced geospatial techniques, including geospatial statistics, coding and automation, and the use of novel data sources.
Additionally, you will explore advanced concepts in method design and learn how to design and budget for a proposed project.
To apply these skills, you will work on discipline-specific problems in areas such as environmental planning, land cover change, resource management, and risk assessment.
KE6023 -
Applied Ecology and Conservation Management (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will explore the policies and practice of conservation, using examples from around the world.
You will find out how the conservation value of a site is assessed in the UK (and in other countries), how climate change is affecting the distribution of species and habitats and the challenges of managing a site for conservation and other conflicting uses.
The module combines professional practice focused on careers and challenging contemporary ideas.
Reviews of professionals working in the field of conservation (Ecological Skills: shaping the profession for the 21st Century, IEEM 2011 and CIEEM 2017) identified the need for graduates who can undertake standard ecological surveys of sites and make recommendations for habitat and species management.
This module is designed to help you develop these practical and employment related skills.
The teaching will focus on building your practice-based expertise, the confidence to make judgements and how to implement standard methods (UK and international equivalents) that are essential skills for a career in the fields of conservation and environmental management.
Topics are based on the research rich expertise of the teaching staff with workshops based on techniques and strategies you need to know to work in the conservation profession.
At the heart of the module is the global biodiversity crisis, concepts of biodiversity (genetic biodiversity, species biodiversity, community biodiversity, habitat diversity), and how the conservation profession approach challenges in nature conservation and management.
You will explore major causes of biodiversity loss with examples from the UK and beyond.
Workshops build expertise and confidence in professional skills and coursework assignments are based on authentic challenges faced by professionals working in nature conservation and management.
The overall aim is to equip you with the expertise, skills and confidence to work in nature conservation.
KE6033 -
Translating Environmental Science into policy, outreach and decision making (Core,20 Credits)
Engaging with environmental issues and sustainable development beyond the academy has always been at the heart of Environmental Sciences at Northumbria .
Environmental issues such as  climate change mitigation and adaptation; reduction of pollution and plastics, reversing biodiversity losses; improving soil quality and managing urban growth present  major sustainability challenges  for the 21st Century.
Environmental engagement can occur at multiple levels in society: business and corporate; government; public; education.
On this module you will work towards completing a small piece of Application, Outreach or Decision making, the topic of which will be dependent staff expertise and partner engagement.
The aim of the module is to explore, understand, practice and evaluate means of environmental engagement.
From building both the business and environmental cases for corporate engagement in the environmental agenda to communication with the public and embedding the environmental understanding into education.
The module will examine concepts of risk and risk management, the application of environmental management and assessment tools.
Bringing science into policy, the role of stakeholder engagement and communication in environmental change.
How you can successfully engage with the public and how to bring complex issues to school children.
The module will help you to develop the skills required to support the implementation of environmental programmes and change the environmental agenda at all levels of society.
Topics you will cover on the module include: •	Conceptual framework for translating environmental science into policy, outreach and decision making •	Sustainable Development Goals- differing interpretations, awareness and use •	Environmental communication – the role of stakeholder engagement and communication in improving environmental engagement.
•	Practical tools for business engagement with the environmental agenda •	Making science-based policy decisions to improve the environment •	Environmental education – how, when and why?
•	Public engagement – outreach as a tool to promote the environmental agenda •	Project management – approaches and issues.
•	Group working – practical skills and professional approaches
KE6037 -
Earth Futures (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about a variety of aspects of the Earth system and the impact anthropogenic climate change is having upon them.
Following an overview of the carbon cycle and the role of humans in anthropogenic climate change, you will be introduced to the range of methods which may be employed to tackle the issues caused by this climate change.
Topics covered by this module may include: •	How human emissions are driving climatic change.
•	How the Earth system is responding to climatic change.
•	How Net Zero and changes in lifestyles may act to reduce carbon emissions.
•	Nature based solutions, and how approaches like afforestation may work to remove carbon from the atmosphere.
•	What geoengineering is, and what the challenges and pitfalls are, scientifically, economically and ethically.
•	How to use models to simulate the impact geoengineering may have on the Earth system.
KE6038 -
Environmental Data Analysis and Modelling (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about a variety of approaches to model environmental systems.
Following an overview of fundamental approaches to environmental modelling and a practical introduction to a number of specific models, you will apply one of the models to answer an environmental question as part of an individual study.
In parallel with this, you will be introduced to a range of advanced techniques in computer programming which will allow data manipulation, analysis and presentation.
As a result, this module will allow you to demonstrate: - The use of numerical modelling as an important methodological tool in the physical environment.
- The role of modelling in gaining a better understanding of the interaction of processes driving change and in predicting the form and nature of the resulting response in a variety of environmental settings.
- The latest methodological design and application of modelling and the historical context of their development.
- The practice of model design: from conceptualisation of the model by understanding the main physical processes shaping the environment in question, through development of a computational algorithm to approximate environmental response to applied external forcings.
- Critical interpretation of model output.
- The importance of reproducibility in research.
- An appreciation of modelling as an emerging tool in understanding and predicting the impact of human activity upon physical and/or wider environmental processes.
- Computation and data manipulation skills using a wide range of computer packages (e.g.
ArcGIS), including high-level technical computing languages  (e.g.
Matlab).
KE6039 -
Environmental Public Health (Optional,20 Credits)
Through this module you will develop a holistic understanding of how national and anthropogenic environmental conditions can interact with human health and our communities by applying a critical understanding of approaches to pollution management and mitigation, and  impacts on public health.
This is achieved through guided study of a range of contemporary pollution and public health issues, driven by environmental conditions.
This may include impacts from historic and current contamination of air, land and water coupled with contemporary issues such as plastics and nanomaterials released into the environment.
You are expected to consider, analyse and interpret environmental and health surveillance datasets.
This will be contextualised with an understanding of legal frameworks, including regulatory interventions in conjunction with Governmental policies.
On completion of the module, your improved ability to link and apply theory, practice and application will enhance your employability prospects across the environmental and health job sectors.
KE6040 -
Coasts and Oceans (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will explore a range of topics, such as: •	The processes that operate in marine and coastal environments, •	Data sampling, collection and analysis in marine and coastal science, •	Use of data to address ‘real world’ problems.
As well as learning the theory, you will gain hands-on experience of data collection during fieldwork, and data analysis during a series of IT practical classes.
This course is the perfect launchpad for a career in
environmental and ecological fields.
With environmental issues a key topic
across the world, there is a demand for this knowledge and experience.
Not only can you graduate from this accredited degree with a
wealth of knowledge and practical experience, but with solid research skills.
You
may also have opportunities to gain real-world experience through fieldwork,
live projects, and work placements.
This course is designed to help you hit the ground running
in careers such as environmental management, waste management, pollution
control, urban regeneration, biodiversity conservation, overseas development or
environmental education.
You’ll learn from research-active staff who are passionate
about solving environmental issues.
Our teaching team includes experts with
experience in industry, consultancy, and prominent organisations, specialising
in areas like pollution control, ecology, conservation, climate adaptation, and
disaster resilience with projects and engagement taking place in more than 30
countries, from the poles to the tropics.
Dr Andrew Suggitt
Dr Katherine Baldock
Dr Mark Goddard
Dr Miranda Prendergast-Miller
The Environmental Science degree at Northumbria aims to fully
develop your research skills, by immersing you in a research-rich environment.
Throughout your degree journey, you’ll be encouraged to
engage with current research, building your confidence and expertise.
You will
be able to develop your specialist interests, what motivates you, culminating
in a final year dissertation where you can devise, explore, analyse and present
your findings on a topic of your choice.
On this course, you’ll have the opportunity to learn in modern
facilities with access to industry-standard equipment for practical experiments
in our research labs.
Our field equipment includes portable monitoring tools
for soil, water, and air pollution, while specialist IT software like GIS and
ecological statistical packages help you analyse findings.
The campus also offers social spaces for the student
community such as The Geography Hub – an exclusive, casual space for students
with the Geography and Environmental Science department.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-environmental-science-uusese1:
F755
3 years Full Time or 4 years with a placement (sandwich)/study abroad 1 other options available

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/environmental-science-bsc-ft-uusene1:
Please note, the last year of entry on this course is 2025.
For September 2026 entry see Environmental Science BSc .
From the impacts of our changing climate, the quality of the air we breathe and the water we drink, to the challenges of dealing with our waste and meeting the competing demands on our natural spaces, environmental issues impact on us all.
This highly current degree examines topics such as ecology and conservation; sustainable development; resources and waste management and pollution control in both developing and developed countries.
100% of students studying Environmental Science at Northumbria believed their course positively challenged them to achieve their best work (NSS, 2025).
Environmental Science at Northumbria is ranked 1st in the UK for Academic Support (NSS, 2025).
See other similar courses you may be interested in: Geography BSc
UCAS Code F751
This department encompasses all of our work in cold and palaeo environments, social and cultural geographies, communities and resilience, environmental geochemistry and health, and ecology.
Geography and Environmental Sciences at Northumbria University encompass all of our work in physical and human geography, environmental science and management, health & safety, and disaster management.
To find out more hear what our students and lectures have to say about this department.
Royal Geographical Society honours Northumbria geographer.
Northumbria professor contributes to Netflix series, Life on Our Planet.
Northumbria scientists collaborate on climate change board game.
RESEARCH: Green Blue Infrastructure.
Get to know our current students and their experiences on the course.
You will be able to apply the theory you have learnt
in lectures and tutorials in hands-on laboratory practicals, cementing your
practical and professional skills.
Taking your learning outside the classroom
you will get your hands dirty on local and residential field trips including on
a trip to Tenerife and you will get the opportunity to see environmental
science in action on a range of site visits.
Our department has an excellent reputation for student support
and teaching innovation.
This starts from the very first week where we support your transition to university with a field trip and skills development week.
You will learn from research active staff who will
inspire you in their subject, and who truly believe in working to provide
solutions to the environmental problems that are affecting our planet.
You will
be learning from those at the forefront of the subject.
The teaching team includes staff with previous experience
working in industry, consultancy and for high profile organisations in both
teaching and research positions.
science including pollution monitoring and control, ecology and conservation, climate adaptation and disaster management and resilience building.
You
will learn in state-of-the-art facilities where you can take part in practical
experiments in our research laboratories with access to industry standard field
and laboratory equipment.
Our extensive field equipment includes a range of
portable monitoring and analytical instrumentation (e.g.
for soil, water and
air pollution monitoring) whilst specialist IT software, including GIS and
ecological statistical packages, allow you to analyse and model your findings.
Our estates also include social spaces for our student community.
You will examine current natural world and urban
case studies in order to apply what you have learnt to real world examples and
you can further enhance  your employability with the opportunity for a
semester-based or year long placement or period of study abroad.
Working as a team with your peers, you will liaise
with external partners to solve a current sustainability or environmental
problem.
You can also tailor your final year dissertation to examine a research
area that affects an external organisation.
Take a look at the facilities for the Geography and Environmental Sciences.
Palaeo and Environmental Research Laboratory
Watch as you learn more about the facilities available whilst studying a  Geography and Environmental Sciences degree.
The Environmental Science degree at Northumbria will
fully develop your research skills, by immersing you in a research-rich
environment.
From the very first week you will be actively researching,
building your confidence and expertise.
You will be able to develop your
specialist interests, what motivates you, culminating in a final year
dissertation which will cement your ability to devise, explore, analyse and
present your findings on a topic entirely of your own choice.
We carry out specialist research in cold and paleo
environments, social and cultural geography, communities and resilience,
environmental analysis and ecology, with projects and engagement taking place
in more than 30 countries, from the poles to the tropics.
This breadth of
innovative research should provide you with plenty of inspiration for your
final year dissertation, where you will be matched with a supervisor engaged in
research in a relevant area.
From Antarctica to the Arctic, global warming to disaster risk reduction, Geography takes place at a truly global scale at Northumbria.
Disasters, Development and Resilience
Cold and Palaeo-Environment Group (CAPE)
Social and Cultural Geographies Research Group
With environmental issues a key topic across the
world, there is a demand for those with the environmental science knowledge and
experience this course provides, making this Environmental Science BSc an ideal
springboard to a career in this arena.
Not only will you graduate from this accredited degree with a
wealth of knowledge and practical experience, but with solid research skills,
and transferable skills such as independent learning, team working and current
experience.
You will be able to hit the ground running in careers such
as  environmental management, waste management, pollution control, urban
regeneration, conservation, overseas development or environmental education.
Discover some of our masters courses to see where your next steps in academia could be.
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Environmental Science.
• Specialist equipment/materials – (walking boots and waterproofs), approximate cost up to £200 
• Print costs –  can exceed the £10 allocation made to all students
• Optional field trip –  flights to Tenerife - approximate cost up to £300
• Final Projects – (dissertation), approximate cost can be up to £300
KE4005 -
Exploring Geographical and Environmental Data (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will learn how to process and analyse a wide range of geographical and environmental data, including quantitative, spatial, and qualitative data.
Topics and issues covered include: • sources of geographical and environmental data; • descriptive and inferential statistics; • geographical information systems; • qualitative data collection and analysis.
You will learn a broad range of basic concepts and principles of the physical environment, how these interact as part of the Earth System and are modified by human processes.
Topics include: • Atmospheric processes and energy flows.
• Climate and climate change.
• The world’s oceans, their physical properties and interactions with the climate and coastal populations.
• Weathering and Erosion.
• Soils and soil forming processes.
• Glacial and periglacial environments and the processes that shape these.
• Landscape and landform evolution from hillslope processes, to rivers and the coastal environment.
• The biogeographical distribution of vegetation and biomes • The role of the biosphere in the Earth system and ecosystem engineers.
• How the Earth system has changed over Quaternary and Cenozoic time scales.
• The physical environment and links to human health.
You will learn the key concepts and debates within ecological science, the science underpinning our understanding of global biodiversity.
The module focuses on populations and communities.
You will be shown how populations of animals and plants change, how species interact and how ecological communities form and alter both in time and space.
You will learn a wide range of ecological skills e.g.
population modelling, quantifying mortality, measuring diversity and similarity, which underpin vital practical questions such as the conservation of rare species, spread of disease and nature reserve management.
At the heart of the module is the significance of ecological systems for the well-being of humanity and the need to understand how natural systems work if we are going to conserve them.
Ultimately they module will challenge you be become ecological researchers, to carry out a piece of detailed research not only as an assessment and practical but also as a research contribution to the management of a local site.
You will move out from the academy and become practicing ecologists.
KE5016 -
Environment, Development and Sustainability (Optional,20 Credits)
You will learn about environmental issues globally, examining the relationship between the process of development (widely understood) and environmental change.
Environmental issues such as sustainability, climate change, desertification, deforestation, water scarcity, wildlife and biodiversity loss, mining and resource extraction will form the focus of the module.
These will be contextualised in terms of changes in livelihoods, agriculture, governance, gender relations, population, technology, foreign investment and land ownership and poverty.
Initiatives for tackling some of these problems, such as internationally agreed frameworks, community-based natural resource management (CBNRM), ecotourism, urban planning, and corporate social responsibility, among others, will be critically examined.
Examples will be taken at a range of scales from the local to the regional and across different geographies spanning the Global North and Global South.
You will also learn some key tools and frameworks that are valuable in employment in the development sector, such as stakeholder analysis, logical framework analysis and participatory research tools.
Through providing an opportunity to develop creative solutions to development problems in the form of project design, this module will enhance your employability skills.
KE5028 -
Coastal Monitoring and Management (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will give you the opportunity to work on real-world coastal monitoring and management problems and will provide you with numerous transferable skills for future employment, including, but not limited to, familiarisation and application of advanced landscape surveying techniques, complex data visualization and presentation, developing solutions to applied problems, project management and delivery, and professional report writing.
You will learn about the past, present, and future behaviour of coastal systems, and the various ways in which coastal environments are monitored and managed.
You will learn about the fundamental principles of coastal landscape evolution over long (millennial) to short (months-years) timescales, and gain understanding of the role that sea-level rise and extreme hydrological events play in the evolution of coastal landscapes, and subsequent management implications.
You will additionally learn the principles and practices of landscape surveying using field-based (e.g.
drones) and satellite remote sensing datasets, with a specific emphasis on surveying coastal domains.
You will learn how to produce and present your results in the style of a consultancy report, using templates and formatting that are used by external organisations.
You will also learn how to produce material for the public communication of science.
You will work both individually and as part of small teams to carry out desk- and field-based tasks.
On completion of the module, you will have gained many key skills that will be useful for your dissertation, further study, or to improve your future employment prospects.
As well as having an improved knowledge of coastal processes and management issues/solutions, you will develop technical proficiencies in a range of landscape mapping and analysis techniques.
By effectively taking on the role of an environmental consultant for the summative assessment, you will also develop experience of synthesising a range of data to propose and communicate coastal management strategies to a hypothetical client, and the public.
Biodiversity and Climate Change (Optional,20 Credits)
KE5033 -
Environmental Cycles: Air, Water, Soil (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module, you will learn about the nature and properties of soil, air and water, the key processes operating within them and the environmental cycles influencing their characteristics and behaviour.
The module will enable you to appreciate the dynamic nature of pollution, its impacts on environmental systems and human health, and provide an introduction to approaches for pollution management and mitigation.
In addition, you will develop skills in a range of field and laboratory techniques and approaches to data collection and analysis used in environmental monitoring.
You will also develop a deeper appreciation of the interaction between physical and human aspects of the environment.
KE6002 -
Modelling, Computation and Data Manipulation (Optional,20 Credits)
As a result, this module will allow you to demonstrate: -	The use of numerical modelling as an important methodological tool in the physical environment.
-	The role of modelling in gaining a better understanding of the interaction of processes driving change and in predicting the form and nature of the resulting response in a variety of environmental settings.
-	The latest methodological design and application of modelling and the historical context of their development.
-	The practice of model design: from conceptualisation of the model by understanding the main physical processes shaping the environment in question, through development of a computational algorithm to approximate environmental response to applied external forcings.
-	Critical interpretation of model output.
-	The importance of reproducibility in research.
-	An appreciation of modelling as an emerging tool in understanding and predicting the impact of human activity upon physical and/or wider environmental processes.
-	Computation and data manipulation skills using a wide range of computer packages (e.g.
KE6003 -
Palaeoecology and Biogeography (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will gain the necessary skills and knowledge needed to understand how our environment evolved in the past and how it might change in the future.
Particular attention will be paid to the reconstruction and assessment of past human impact on the environment.
The module strongly supports the interdisciplinary character of Geography by involving a number of different scientific disciplines such as Geology, Ecology, Palaeobotany, Limnology and Climatology.
The topics of this module include: • Application of palaeoenvironmental reconstruction techniques (e.g.
diatom and pollen analysis, and geochemical analyses) • Principles of Biogeography and Ecology: Understanding temporal and spatial patterns of plant communities and ecosystems • Case studies of Late Quaternary climate and vegetation • Detecting anthropogenic impact in sediment records • Regional vegetation and climate history of North England The practicals will include a combination of techniques from the indicative list below:: • Core logging (e.g.
description of colour using Munsell Color System, classification of sediment layers, identifying hiatus) • Total inorganic and organic carbon (TIC/TOC) • Charcoal particle analysis • Pollen and spore analysis • Diatom analysis • Pollen diagram construction using Tilia/TiliaGraph software • Multivariate data analyses ( e.g.
PCA, cluster and correspondence analysis) On completion of the module, you will know the theory and application of various palaeoecological and sedimentological proxy methods.
You will understand the driving forces and feedbacks in the biotic and abiotic Earth System and learn to critically analyse and synthesise scientific data.
In this module you will learn to assess the importance of climate change and human impact for the evolution of our modern landscapes and ecosystems.
You will learn about the design and implementation of geospatial Applications using evidence based practice extending practical knowledge of the techniques and analysis tools gained from level 5 (Second year).
This will involve you critically reviewing existing published and adopted practice in topic areas such as: •	environmental planning, •	landcover change, •	resource management and •	risk assessment.
in order to design, cost and implement your own geospatial application.
You will be taught advanced concepts of method design and how to cost and respond to a tender request.
You will also learn advanced IT skills on data compilation, download, generation, analysis, interpretation and presentation within the context of ‘fitness of use’ using image processing and GIS software.
As you explore evidence based practice you will be asked to design your application with key consideration to the following questions.
Can geospatial Applications be: •	value free and what role does positionality and ethics play?, •	simply sticks which powerful groups in decision making processes use to beat smaller groups with?, and •	a key determinant of planning and policy success in an organisational context?
KE6019 -
Public Health and Occupational Safety (Optional,20 Credits)
You will learn about public health protection and occupational safety and develop a critical understanding of the nature of communicable diseases and non-communicable occupational and environmental hazards to develop appropriate evidence and risk based approaches.
You will build a critical understanding of organisations and approaches responsible for ensuring effective arrangements are in place nationally and locally for preparing, planning and responding to concerns and emergencies, including the future impact of climate change.
You will focus on the key aspects including •	Harm from communicable diseases and health impact from environmental and occupational hazards •	Collection, analysis and interpretation of surveillance data •	Planning, investigation and response to incidents, accidents and outbreaks •	Legal and regulatory systems •	Resilience and emergency response •	Workplace health and safety, •	Health and safety risk management •	Principles and theories of health and safety management •	Occupational health and hygiene and occupational psychology On completion of the module, your improved ability to link theory, practice and application will enhance your employability prospects within a broad environmental health / health, safety and environment job sector.
KE6031 -
Environmental Pollution and Health (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module, you will develop a holistic viewpoint on issues surrounding environmental pollution, pollution impacts on human health, and approaches to pollution management and mitigation.
You will engage with a range of contemporary issues across air quality management, contaminated land and water pollution; appreciate the wider context of historical pollution; analyse and interpret environmental data using a range of modelling techniques (for example, contaminated land software, atmospheric dispersion modelling software) and evaluate different types of interventions that can be used to alleviate/control the effects/impacts of pollutants;; and develop a good working knowledge of the regulatory systems that exist for air, water and soil pollution control at global, European, national and/or local levels.
On completion of the module, your ability to link theory and application will serve to enhance your future employment prospects.
KE6032 -
Tropical and Coastal Research (Optional,20 Credits)
With a strong research focus, the tropical and coastal research module will cover the cutting-edge developments in coastal science.
From how to identify seagrass using satellites, to predicting the contents of a rockpool without even looking at it, you will understand the processes that make coastal ecosystems tick.
You will design and undertake two research projects – one using field data that you will collect in North-East England, and another using secondary data from the Tropics that you will analyse during IT practical sessions.
In both cases, you will learn that the same overarching concepts, in coastal science and research design, apply equally in these contrasting coastal settings.
Within a group, you will be given a valuable opportunity to plan and execute scientific experiments of your own in the field.
This will be a method of your choosing, on a topic of your choice, example topics include microplastics, rockpools, longshore drift, or even footfall at tourist hotspots along the coast.
To design your project and discuss your findings, you will engage with cutting-edge literature from the field of coastal science.
You will present this research project in an oral presentation.
You will apply these same concepts in coastal science and research design to undertake your individual research project in a tropical coastal environment.
To undertake this project, you will engage with secondary data in order to design and undertake your enquiry.
You will undertake this work in a series of IT sessions, and present the project in the form of a professional report.
You will engage in teaching, learning and assessment activities applicable to all students of geography.
The module aims to give you a broad introduction to data collection and analysis in geography which will form the basis of programme-specific training at levels 5 and 6.
Topics and issues covered include: • sources of geographical and environmental data; • quantitative data and analysis approaches; • spatial data and the nature of geographical information systems; • qualitative data collection and analysis approaches.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/pg-cert-eye-movement-desensitisation-and-reprocessing-dtpeym6:
As a Postgraduate of the Eye
Movement Desensitisation & Reprocessing (EMDR) Therapy programme here at
Northumbria University, you will build on your existing knowledge and advance
your skills through gaining a robust understanding regarding the theory and
practice of EMDR Therapy and how this can be utilised, and effectively
integrated into clinical practice.
The depth of the theoretical and
evidence-based material sets it apart from the existing commercial EMDR Therapy
training provision (EMDRUK; EMDR Academy) , thus enabling you to apply your critical thinking and
synthesis within your learning and within the field of EMDR therapy.
As a Postgraduate of this programme, you will:
This course is
designed for registered/licensed mental health professionals, engaged in
clinical practice, and are actively working with psychological trauma
populations, who wish to apply effective EMDR Therapy in their clinical
practice.
Unlike the existing commercial EMDR Therapy training models available,
this programme offers you an internationally recognised award of a Postgraduate
Certificate qualification.
The unique benefits
of studying this programme at Northumbria University are:
As part of
Northumbria University’s high impact interventions 5HighImpact - Home (sharepoint.com) ,
the university supports the Universal Design for Learning (UDL) principles in
the development of learning, teaching and assessment (La, Dyjur, & Bair,
2018).
Through the promotion of inclusive curriculum design, the UDL principles
are designed to assist and enable you to achieve and excel in your studies
irrespective of your individual learning needs.
The principles provide a
blueprint for the development and delivery of teaching, student support and
student assessment (Maguire and Hall, 2018).
The three principles
of UDL ensure there are (i) multiple means of engagement, which promotes the
offer of different opportunities for learner engagement and involvement; (ii) multiple
means of representation, which provides learners with a range of ways to access
and engage with course information, resources and support; (iii) multiple means
of expression, which enables learners to demonstrate what they have learnt,
mastered and know in a variety of forms (La, Dyjur, & Bair, 2018).
Within our programme
we have used UDL principles at both a programme and module level to enhance
educational delivery, student engagement and support (Burgstahler, 2013).
Across the programme, there is a strong emphasis on active learning, utilising
a blended learning approach underpinned by andragogy and evidence-based
technology enhanced learning, with the majority of learning taking place in the
practice setting.
Utilising a flipped
classroom approach (Bergman & Sams, 2012), you will undertake directed
independent theoretical preparatory work via a blend of online materials and
reading prior to the face-to-face delivery.
A positive learning environment
will promote active learning through didactic teaching interspersed by group
discussion, use of online materials, experiential learning, supervised low
fidelity simulation and critical reflection of their own practice.
Low fidelity
simulation sessions will involve self-experience.
These sessions are
facilitated by experienced EMDR Europe Accredited Consultants with suitable
safeguards in place including debrief periods at the end of each session.
If
needed, you also have access to Northumbria University Student Life and Wellbeing services.
From the onset of the programme, the programme team will create a
sense of engagement and belonging within the university.
As part of your
student journey, you will be part of a learning community which will be accessible
via discussion boards, peer review activities, student and staff committee
meetings and student representation.
You will also be allocated a Personal
Tutor.
The Personal Tutor will assist in your integration and can meet with
you on an individual basis.
The Personal Tutor role is pastoral and relates
to your wellbeing, personal and professional development.
Northumbria
University sets out the role of the Personal Tutor clearly in policy,
supporting the Northumbria University Student charter on Personal Tutors.
The
policy can be found here .
Student Central, located within the library, provide access to
counselling services, advice on finance and any other student issues and
specialist advisors are available to help and support you.
The guide to
services can be found here .
Other potential for pastoral
support lies within your ‘community of practice’, which will provide you with
a peer support network.
Various forms of communication are available to
ensure you can access support in a timely manner; examples include email,
telephone, and face-to-face contact (at a distance via Microsoft teams, Blackboard
Collaborate or in person).
These sessions are facilitated by experienced EMDR Europe
Accredited Consultants with suitable safeguards in place including debrief
periods at the end of each session.
If needed, you also have access to Northumbria University Student Life and Wellbeing services.
The 24/7 University Library achieves some of the highest levels of student satisfaction in the UK, and has held the Cabinet Office accreditation for Customer Service Excellence since 2010.
Northumbria University has been ranked in the top quartile in the UK for research power in Allied Health Sciences and Nursing.
Additionally, more than 80% of our research activity in Allied Health Sciences and Nursing is rated as world-leading or internationally excellent.
In Northumbria Universities Research Rich Learning approach, the teacher assumes the role of facilitator to encourage active, self-directed learning on the part of the student.
Such approaches allow students to take responsibility for their own learning by requiring engagement with higher level academic skills.
The aim is to equip students with skills of intellectual autonomy, collaborative working, critical and independent enquiry, and discipline-specific creativity.
Although you will already be engaged in clinical practice,
undertaking the Postgraduate Certificate EMDR Therapy programme will equip you
to develop your expertise in the field of trauma psychology in relation to
developing specialist clinical practice and expertise, clinical supervision,
consultation, and potential research and development.
Developing expertise in EMDR Therapy allows you to progress your career
in a manner that can be extremely multi-faceted.
As an EMDR clinician you can
progress towards becoming an EMDR Europe Accredited Practitioner, Consultant/
Clinical Supervisor and Trainer.
Your expertise can also be related to a specific
speciality where EMDR Therapy could be used, enhanced, and further developed.
These include for example, working with younger and older populations, ethnic
and cultural adaption and sensitivity, trauma capacity building, and early
trauma interventions.
Northumbria
students have exclusive access to the Graduate Futures Team with interactive
resources to help explore career options, develop your CV, complete practice
aptitude tests, undertake interview simulations and review e-learning
resources on a wide range of career topics.
Further information can be found here.
Undertaking the Postgraduate Certificate EMDR Therapy programme will
also give you entry to continue your studies to master’s level and beyond.
With
your Postgraduate Certificate you will be eligible to RPL (recognition of
prior learning -time restricted to 5 years post award) your awarded credits to
enter year 2 of the MSc Health and Social Practice.
Details of the programme
can be found here.
The hours of clinical supervision/case consultation gathered within
this programme can be used, in part towards the requirements of EMDR Europe
Training for those seeking practitioner EMDR Europe Accreditation status following this programme.
Please note: EMDR Europe Accreditation requires
additional hours and fees for the individual which are not part of
Northumbria University’s programme offer.
The minimum entry requirements for Post Grad Cert, will be evidence of successful level 6 study within the last 5 years, plus 120 credits or equivalence at level 5, plus applicants must provide evidence of the specific eligibility criteria as listed below .
To achieve the programme learning outcomes suitable applicants at the point of application must be able to demonstrate that they are working in a clinical environment that has direct access to appropriate clinical populations.
Northumbria University holds no responsibility to provide any clinical placements.
Specific eligibility criteria:
• Professional registration documentation (please see list below)
• Written confirmation from their employer that they are prepared to support the Postgraduate Certificate in EMDR Therapy Programme of study
• Evidence of work-based learning public liability insurance (for those applicants in private practice)
• Evidence of DBS check (for those applicants in private practice)
• Evidence of existing engagement with Clinical Supervision prior, or at the
commencement of the programme.
NB:  these external clinical supervision
arrangements are in addition to the EMDR Therapy Clinical Supervision provided as part of the programme.
Professional registration
Mental Health Professionals
• Clinical Psychologists (Registered with Health and Care Professions Council [HCPC] or
Psychological Society Ireland [PSI])
• Counselling Psychologists (Registered with HCPC)
• Educational Psychologists (Registered with HCPC)
• Forensic Psychologists (Registered with HCPC)
• Psychiatrists (Consultant Psychiatrist, StR / SpR Psychiatry)
• Registered Mental Health Nurses (Nursing & Midwifery Council [NMC])
• Registered Mental Health Social Workers with experience of working clinically in a
mental health setting (HCPC)
NB: Mental health professionals from countries outside the UK and Ireland must fulfil the eligibility criteria for their country of origin and are requested to submit a letter from their national EMDR Association agreeing to them undertaking their training in the UK.
Applicants from countries with no national EMDR Association are scrutinized on a case-by-case basis and need to broadly follow our own eligibility criteria, i.e.
a mental health professional accredited/registered with a governing body in their own country.
Counsellors/Psychotherapists
MUST hold accreditation OR have submitted proof that they have had their application approved
for provisional accreditation for one of the following professional bodies:
• Association of Child Psychotherapists (ACP)
• Association of Christian Counsellors (Accredited Counsellor [AC])
• British Association for Behavioural and Cognitive Psychotherapies (BABCP)
• British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy (BACP)
• British Psychoanalytic Council (BPC)
• FDAP Members who have become accredited with the National Counsellor Accreditation
Certificate (NCAC)
• Irish Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy (IACP)
• Irish Association of Humanistic and Integrative Psychotherapy (IAHIP)
• National Counselling Society (NCS) members who hold the grade of Accredited Professional, (MNCS Accred Prof)
• United Kingdom Council for Psychotherapy (UKCP)
General Practitioners
Registered with the General Medical Council (GMC) who are experienced in psychotherapy and
psychological trauma and are an accredited counsellor or psychotherapist or working towards a
psychotherapy accreditation.
Clinical & Counselling Psychologists
In final year of training are acceptable with letter of recommendation from their supervisor.
Art Psychotherapists
Registered with Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) plus mental health training and
working in a mental health setting may be accepted.
Occupational Therapists
For Full-time International Students eligibility is based also upon obtaining a 1-year visa for academic study within the United Kingdom.
For further details: https://www.gov.uk/browse/visas-immigration/student-visas
Full International Fee:
                                £6,450
AC7135 -
Eye Movement Desensitisation & Reprocessing (EMDR) Therapy Training Part A (Core,30 Credits)
In this module, you learn how to develop critical knowledge and appreciation for the practice of Eye Movement Desensitisation and Reprocessing (EMDR) Therapy for those traumatised by adverse life experiences.
EMDR Therapy is a complex, multi-faceted, empirically supported psychological treatment, which integrates many successful elements from a range of evidence-based treatment interventions.
This module introduces you to the existing evidence base which will inform your practice.
Indicative module content includes: •	The origins of EMDR Therapy from technique, protocolised intervention, to comprehensive psychotherapy.
•	EMDR Therapy as an eight-phase treatment intervention.
•	The empirical evidence base of EMDR Therapy as a psychological treatment intervention.
•	The neurobiology and physiology of stress and trauma.
•	Global burden of psychological trauma.
•	Trauma, pathogenic memory, and information processing.
•	The theoretical framework of Adaptive Information Processing (AIP).
•	AIP Case Conceptualisation – treatment planning, intervention, and outcomes.
•	Trauma informed psychoeducation and regulation.
•	Processing distressing memories, mental health, and well-being.
•	EMDR Therapy technical skills and procedures.
•	EMDR Therapy clinical supervision and consultation.
You will learn to recognise, critically evaluate, and understand the evidence and frameworks to prepare you to effectively incorporate and apply EMDR Therapy into your existing clinical practice.
The module develops your ability to case conceptualise underpinned with theoretical frameworks and based upon current legal, ethical, and professional guidance.
To fulfil the EMDR Europe requirements for EMDR Standard Training participants must have 100% attendance and demonstrate competency during EMDR practicum/ self-experience sessions  to be awarded EMDR Europe Completion of Standard Training Certificate.
In addition, attendance records will also be used including ‘sign in’ & ‘sign out’ sheets.
AC7136 -
Eye Movement Desensitisation & Reprocessing (EMDR) Therapy Training Part B (Core,30 Credits)
This module will provide you with further training in the practice of Eye Movement Desensitisation and Reprocessing (EMDR) Therapy with more complex, vulnerable populations traumatised by adverse life experiences and should be accessed sequentially after completion of Part A.
This module will enable you to effectively incorporate EMDR Therapy into your existing clinical practice as it will build up on and advance your knowledge and skills developed in Part A.
Indicative module content includes: •	EMDR Therapy as an eight-phase treatment intervention •	The theoretical framework of Adaptive Information Processing (AIP) as a transdiagnostic means of case conceptualisation and treatment planning.
•	Ethical, moral, and legal aspects in EMDR Therapy.
•	Working with unspoken trauma, shame, moral injury, and/or fear based adverse life experiences.
•	Theory related to EMDR Therapy and trauma-related conditions for which there is emerging empirical support for the approach and intervention.
•	Legal, ethical and research issues regarding EMDR utilisation.
•	Advanced EMDR Therapy technical skills and procedures for working with more complex and vulnerable populations.
•	Managing challenging clients in EMDR Therapy including dissociative disorders.
•	Distinguish essential consensus and distinction between EMDR Therapy and CBT – Trauma Focussed, Prolonged Exposure Therapy and other trauma-focussed treatment interventions.
•	EMDR Therapy within the context of international trauma capacity building.
•	Future research and developments in EMDR Therapy.
•	EMDR Therapy clinical governance and EMDR Europe Accreditation for Practitioners and Consultants (Clinical Supervisors).
By building on your skills so far, you will learn to recognise, critically evaluate, and synthesise the evidence to effectively incorporate and apply EMDR Therapy in challenging contexts.
The module develops your ability to identify gaps in current provision and consider future research and development underpinned by current legal, ethical, and professional guidance.
To fulfil the EMDR Europe requirements for EMDR Standard Training participants must have 100% attendance and demonstrate competency during EMDR practicum/ self-experience sessions to be awarded EMDR Europe Completion of Standard Training Certificate.
HL7000 -
Academic Language Skills for PG Health students (Core – for International and EU students only,0 Credits)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-fashion-extended-degree-newcastle-uusxfh1:
Z043
5 years Full Time
Establish your professional creative identity and Fashion career path by developing your own specialist-creative-practice that explores Fashion design for real-world applications.
Learn how to create, craft and communicate meaningful Fashion aligned to your own interests using thinking-through-making skills, craftsmanship and contemporary fashion design practices.
Through practical assessment, build a skillful knowledge of pattern-cutting, printed textiles, or constructed knitwear enhanced by traditional and digital techniques within our excellent studios and workshops and professional design-community.
Become career ready by experiencing industrial and enterprise placements or Design Study Abroad, amongst our industrial and cultural partners and alumni.
Capitalise on our Fashion programme’s established reputation for producing award-winning designers with creative vision, knowledge and skills.
Other courses you may be interested in: Fashion Communication BA (Hons) or check out all of our other Fashion courses and find that one that suits you.
Your modules will help you to realise your creative potential and prepare you for a meaningful fashion career.
They foster design thinking, authentic research, and creative fashion design and communication skills.
Learning outcomes will assess your knowledge and understanding, intellectual and professional skills and personal attributes through design and make projects, sketchbooks, critical study, presentations, and portfolios.
In first year, you will work with your expert specialist team to build fundamental knowledge and skills in fashion design practice using thinking-through-making methods to explore the formal elements of fashion design in 2D and 3D.
You will learn about materials and methods, research skills, and design and make meaningful fashion through pattern cutting, sewing, print, knit and digital methods.
In second year, you will work purposefully on industry-relevant, collaborative projects in response to global issues impacting fashion; informing the development of your own values, interests, ambitions and creative identity.
Digital fashion technologies workshops will enhance your emerging specialist creative practice and craftsmanship skills alongside the professional, interpersonal and portfolio skills in preparation for choosing your Year 3 options.
In third year, you will develop your career readiness, entrepreneurship and intercultural awareness through first-hand experience of the fashion workplace, international study opportunities, and creative studio practice.
You will choose from national and international industrial placements, enterprise placements, study abroad, or from live, simulated and competitive projects.
You will record your experience(s) and share with tutors and peers.
In final year your specialist creative practice is situated within current global debate and explores the interface between theory and practice within a professional portfolio, conceptual collection and critical study.
Your portfolio showcases your vision of the future of fashion, professional creative identity, skills set, methodologies and career readiness to multiple audiences, within the context of your professional ambitions.
FA4024 -
Introduction to Fashion Practice (Core,20 Credits)
This module introduces you to the technical skills and approaches you will need to support the development of your own creative practice and craftsmanship throughout your studies.
As a BA Fashion student, you will learn how to work safely and responsibly in the pattern cutting, sewing, print, knit and digital technical workshops, via specialist technician-led inductions.
Our highly experienced technical team and tutors will enable you to reinforce this learning via the manufacture of a classic garment that will underpin your creative fashion project work and begin your journey as a fashion designer.
You will learn how to pattern cut and use authentic industrial methods and techniques in our industry-standard workshops.
You will practice the fundamentals of accurate hand-drawn working drawings that will underpin the development of your technical understanding and employability skills.
Additionally, you will be introduced to skills and techniques relevant to print, knit and digital technology.
During the module you will record and reflect upon your learning and skills development in an annotated Technical Process Journal (TPJ).
This will underpin your making throughout the programme and work symbiotically with the modules Introduction to Fashion Cultures and Fashion Practice to inform your creative process.
All students must pass the technical Health & Safety inductions to be able to work independently and book space in the technical workshops during the academic year.
FA4025 -
Introduction to Fashion Culture (Core,20 Credits)
This module introduces you to fashion cultures through the exploration of the intersection between the use of dress to express individual and cultural identity, fashion history, contemporary fashion industry practices and the global challenges and debates that are shaping the future of fashion.
You will take part in a series of collaborative and individual research-based activities to develop an understanding of the relationship between fashion theory and practice and understand its potential as a catalyst for creative and critical thinking   You will learn how to conduct authentic, relevant research, using responsible methods, sources and materials, and how to interpret the findings for creative purposes, and meaningful fashion outcomes.
Through the development of your new knowledge of fashion design history and making practices, at the intersection of personal and cultural identity and the global challenges faced in fashion, you will expand your visual design vocabulary.
The historical and theoretical elements of the module are presented in lectures reinforced through interactive seminars and workshops.
These give context to practice-based workshops on the fashion formal elements of silhouette, colour, pattern, texture, detail, line and proportion, in relation to the moving human body.
The module is supported by other relevant activities such as visits and creative and technical workshops.
Over the course of this module, you will record and develop your work in a Creative Process Journal (CPJ), developing skills in 2D and 3D research methods and critical reflection.
A 1500-word essay will contribute to this developmental journey, providing the opportunity for you to demonstrate your growing knowledge and understanding of fashion culture and your practice within it.
FA4026 -
Fashion Practice (Core,40 Credits)
This practical, thinking-through-making module challenges you to create 3D fashion outcomes based on real-world issues that are shaping the future of fashion, e.g.
climate change, social inclusion, responsible practice, etc.
Throughout this module you will be expected to apply your previous learning in fashion cultural research, ideation of fashion design concepts and formal elements through pattern cutting, print, knit and industrial garment manufacturing techniques.
You will take a creative risk-taking approach to the design process to reimagine and realise an iconic garment in your first design and make project.
To contextualise your practice, you will be introduced to new fashion research methods such as drawing as a creative thinking tool, creative sampling, and garment analysis to learn about the design process from technical, socio-cultural, industrial, design and functional perspectives.
You will learn from the teaching team’s specialist expertise to position your work in cultural and industrial environments.
Your creative practice will be underpinned by theoretical content including responsible practice and circular fashion principles to enable a deep understanding of cultural value, form and function, and how it relates to your values and interests.
You will book access to technical workshops to explore, sample, toile, and realise your fashion ideas in collaboration with your tutors.
You will present your resolved fashion prototypes on the moving body.
FA4027 -
Fashion Image (Core,20 Credits)
This is a practice-based module that is informed by micro lectures on key issues that will support your learning and stimulate your curiosity for your theoretical and practical research.
You will learn about the creative practice of fashion drawing and develop the knowledge, skills and techniques needed to create impactful, relevant and personal fashion images.
Using thinking-through-drawing methods, you will work in a Creative Process Journal (CPJ) to explore the role of drawing in fashion and its application to research, ideation, visualisation and communication processes through drawing as a way of knowing, and as a creative thinking, visualisation and communication tool.
In exploring how fashion images are constructed to convey meaning, the module also enables you to take a discursive approach to human-centred issues of inclusion, such as the decolonisation of the beauty ideal, and contribute to the debate around the political positioning and the power relationships between the creator and the subject, the observer and the observed.
You will learn how to navigate the challenges facing fashion illustration and to visualise fashion’s formal elements, creatively and responsibly for a diverse audience.
Work produced in this module will inform your 2nd year portfolio content.
FA5029 -
Fashion Theory Into Practice (Core,20 Credits)
This module develops critical fashion thinking skills through the exploration of the symbiotic relationship between creative fashion practice, the most current debates and critical issues faced by the fashion industry and the theories used to explain fashion phenomena.
It challenges and equips you to approach your fashion practice through the development of critical thinking, cultural and social understanding, and ethical awareness not only vital for academic success but also a successful career in fashion design with potential to effect change through practice.
In this module you will be given the opportunity to explore your fashion practice in relationship to the most pressing social, environmental, cultural, political and technological issues with which the fashion industry is grappling today.
You will be introduced to different theories to help make sense of real-world phenomena and be facilitated to respond through your creative practice.
Topics for exploration could include environmental and social sustainability; issues of class, gender and queer identity; sub- and counterculture; agism and body image; storytelling and branding; globalisation and localisation; fashion, the body and embodied experience; the impact of technological change on fashion; and ethnicity, race, colonial legacy and the decolonisation of fashion.
Current debates and critical issues will be introduced and analysed through a mixture of lectures, seminar discussions and debates as well as workshops.
You will continue to finetune your ability to conduct and apply detailed analytical research, object and visual analysis to fashion design practice and increase your confidence to articulate your viewpoints in speech and writing.
In the studio, you will be encouraged to respond to at least one of the critical issues explored through sampling, making or local initiatives.
You will fuel your curiosity in researching a fashion design question pertinent to your own creative practice and generate original written and practical outcomes, and by using mixed research methodologies to inspire your creative practice generating original written and practical outcomes.
FA5030 -
Fashioning Identity, Concept and Craftsmanship (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will interpret contemporary global design issues aligned to your own values, creative identity and creative ambitions.
You will develop progressive knowledge of aesthetic principles and skills in fashion craftsmanship for future fashion scenarios, and the development of your creative identity.
By developing your design skills and technical knowledge developed in Level 4, you will create a research-rich, fashion-forward concept to explore new ways of thinking about and fabricating fashion.
Your research and development will be recorded in a creative 2D output to communicate your distinctive individual fashion interests and style.
Theoretical research appropriate to fashion practice will inform your creative fashion practice via specialist skills development in pattern cutting and garment construction, constructed knitwear or printed surface textiles.
By engaging in meaningful design development via a thinking-through-making methodology, you will undertake creative sampling, prototyping and ideation in 2D and 3D formats; developing your knowledge, craftsmanship and conceptual thinking aligned to your personal values, areas of personal interest and professional ambitions.
You will be encouraged to integrate traditional and digital media with a view to communicating your fashion outcomes to diverse audiences.
Outcomes from this project will establish a personal design philosophy to underpin the Collaborative Project and provide content for your Professional Practice Portfolio.
The module will develop intellectual, practical and personal skills and attributes relevant to your specialist creative practice.
FA5031 -
Collaborative Project (Core,40 Credits)
In this module you will collaborate with the programme’s industrial, cultural, community or educational partners to generate original fashion solutions to real-world problems.
You will work with specialist tutors and technicians to develop meaningful fashion outcomes that are grounded in authentic research and move beyond initial aesthetics.
You will develop an understanding of the relationship between the creative and commercial requirements of fashion design.
The module will challenge you to broaden your knowledge of fashion and extend your previous experience.
You will focus on an ‘elevated’ fashion market level as a conduit for developing progressive knowledge of aesthetic principles and skills in fashion craftsmanship.
Building on knowledge gained in Fashioning Identity, Concept and Craftsmanship you will advance your understanding of pattern cutting and garment construction, constructed knitwear, and surface printed textiles using traditional or digital methods through specialist thinking through make approaches.
You will resolve contemporary issues currently facing the industry presented in the collaborative brief.
Your conclusions will further develop your creative practice and personal ambitions.
The module will allow you to work with industrial partners to develop your professional skills and understanding through Live project briefs and/or the opportunity to take part in national competitions.
This will enable you to initiate your personal professional network and make considered decisions about your career readiness for industrial placement and employment.
Work for this module may contribute to the design placement portfolio in Block 3.
Global themes: Sustainability, climate change, global health, AI, technology, political unrest, etc.
Human or planet-focused responsible design practice: social inclusion, gender, equity, mobility, global thinking, health and wellbeing, hunger, security, UNSDGs, circular fashion practices, climate change, pollution, etc.
FA5032 -
This Professional Practice module supports your development as a future fashion professional by nurturing your ability to evaluate and communicate your specialist practice knowledge, skills and personal attributes to a diverse audience.
You will learn about placement and study abroad experience and destinations, and how to approach the application process for a successful outcome.
The module is designed to extend your knowledge of the fashion industry and workplace, facilitate the development of your professional skill set, and enable you to build career readiness within the context of your own professional ambitions, beginning with your third year Design Placement, Design Study Abroad, and Creative Studio options.
It will enable the development of the digital and interpersonal communication skills you will need to take full advantage of future opportunities through your Professional Practice Toolkit, and Digital Portfolio.
Your Professional Practice Toolkit will facilitate and record your reflective approach to learning, engagement with your studies, and support your career readiness through analytical, self-initiated research into the fashion industry and its relevant careers and roles.
It will document the creation of professional digital assets, such as a creative C.V.
and cover letter.
Your Digital Portfolio, as an electronic showcase of your work, will express your creative identity, capture your design processes and present your most engaging content aligned to fashion industry practices, relevant to your third year option applications.
It challenges you to expand and creatively explore a range of multimedia, using both digital and physical techniques, and use it to present your previous project work purposefully and professionally.
FA6021 -
Fashion Concept Research (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will explore the interplay between theoretical, technical and creative practice to propose a concept and methodology for a fashion collection.
You will develop a personal fashion design research proposal written and referenced to academic standard that contextualises the proposed work in a contemporary industrial and cultural context, positioning your collection at its centre.
In parallel, you will propose and explore specialist 2D and 3D experimental technical and creative practice that develops your practical research methodology and confirms your personal creative identity.
You will learn how to work independently to conduct primary and secondary research with integrity and purpose, and to explore and interpret key themes and challenges that impact the future of fashion and your own areas of interest and personal practice.
Using thinking-through-making methods relating to your specialist creative practice you will scope the potential of your proposed concept and initial ideation.
In practical studio and workshop sessions you will have the opportunity to develop your expertise and knowledge in the use of specialist Fashion skills and technologies, and to contextualise pattern cutting, constructed knitted fabrics, printed textiles or digital technology within your Fashion collection.
The outcome of this module will provide substantial evidence of your autonomy and unique fashion design abilities in preparation for your progression into the fashion workplace or post-graduate education.
You will create a Career Readiness Plan (CRP) that contextualises your concept research and developing specialist creative practice to your own professional goals.
FA6022 -
Fashion Concept Development (Core,20 Credits)
In this two-component module, you will learn to interpret and position your proposed Fashion Concept within the contemporary global fashion arena through the development and presentation of a conclusive critical written study, and practical resolution as specialist samples, garments or artefacts that define your project methodology.
By conducting a critical written study in component 1, you will develop your contextual research skills in reference to the latest critical debates, evaluation methods, or design strategies for fashion, that will underpin your fashion concept integrity and cultural relevance.
In component 2, you will choose a study option that shapes your Specialist Creative Practice in a Fashion Atelier, Runway or Digital pathway in line with your Career Readiness Plan (CRP), that develops your expertise in the skilled use of fashion applications, tools, methods and production processes to professional standards.
You will learn to critically analyse fashion design research and development through a well-illustrated and communicated process book or media equivalent and technical specification, that demonstrates your specialist practical methodology, technical abilities and reflective practice skills whilst identifying areas for self-improvement or future exploration, presenting your fashion concept to professional standards ready for realisation in consecutive modules.
FA6023 -
Fashion Collection Realisation 1 (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will learn how to realise your Fashion Collection for a new season, fashion genre or market level through application of your identified Specialist Creative Practice (pattern-cutting, printed textiles or constructed knitwear) within an Atelier, Runway or Digital study option pathway.
Working independently in studio and workshop sessions that simulate real-life industry situations and supported by academic and technical specialists, you will learn how to translate your proposed fashion concept into a series of professional samples and garment prototypes in response to the current zeitgeist and relevant design challenges that impact your own vision for the future of fashion.
Through the process of documented experiential learning and reflective practice, you will develop your individual design handwriting and technical ability, building confidence in your design ability and demonstrating your capability to creatively and contextually challenge existing fashion conventions.
Whilst realising your collection and documenting your creative process, you will effectively begin to build and present accomplished design content in line with your Career Readiness Plan (CRP) ready for the creation of your professional portfolio in Block 3.
Deliverables: Specialist Creative Practice Study Option 1: Fashion Digital Project 2 (Visual proposal + 2D + 3D Technical and Creative Process Journal) Study Option 2: Fashion Atelier Project 2 (visual proposal + 3D sampling + Technical Specification + Creative Process Journal) Study Option 3: Fashion Runway Project 2 (Visual Proposal + 3D Toiles + Technical Specification + Creative Process Journal)
FA6024 -
Fashion Collection Realisation 2 (Core,20 Credits)
This module prepares you as a designer for the future's challenges by fostering skills in risk-taking and problem-solving.
Building upon previous study, you will develop, conclude and present your own vision for the future of fashion to professional standards using advanced intellectual and creative skills that demonstrate your personal design handwriting, specialist knowledge and technical strengths.
To produce your collection, you will work in atelier-style design studios and industry-standard pattern-cutting, print and knitwear workshops, with supportive extended studio activity using a range of appropriate equipment, 2D and 3D technology.
Working closely with internationally experienced fashion practitioners and researchers and supported by technical expertise to develop your knowledge and understanding in your chosen specialist design area, the unique fashion collection that you produce will reflect your learning and be relevant to your chosen specialism and personal fashion career aspirations.
Your engagement in extended specialist creative practice and fashion craftsmanship within this module will underpin your employability and further build and present accomplished design content ready for the creation of your professional portfolio in semester 3.
Deliverables: Digital Clo3D Project, knit, print, sample or garment(s).
Study Options: 1: Fashion Digital Project 3 (2D + 3D crafted realisation + Technical and Creative Process Journal) 2: Fashion Atelier Project 3 (3D crafted realisation + Technical Specification + Creative Process Journal) 3: Fashion Runway Project 3 (3D crafted realisation + Technical Specification + Creative Process Journal)
FA6025 -
Professional Fashion Portfolio (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will craft a professional fashion portfolio to showcase your creative identity, tailored to your career aspirations in industry, enterprise, or post-graduate education outlined in your Career Readiness Plan (CRP).
This portfolio will represent the culmination of your academic, creative, and professional expertise, highlighting your specialised skills in pattern cutting, print, knit, or digital technologies.
It will articulate your design philosophy, engage with current debates, and emphasise responsible design practices in align with your own values and interests.
To achieve this, you will elevate your communication skills and employ divergent and critical thinking to address the complexities of presenting your Level 6 work to diverse audiences and for a range of purposes, such as interviews, assessments, or competitions.
You will demonstrate autonomy and professionalism in responding to opportunities and unexpected challenges in a decisive and professional manner.
Your portfolio will explicitly address entry-level workplace requirements, integrating your unique perspective on global issues, innovative solutions to design problems, and your vision for the future of fashion.
You will select portfolio formats (2D, 3D, 4D, or mixed, multichannel approach) aligned with your CRP and promotional opportunities.
Content will include a CV and various self-promotional materials, such as social media profiles, personal websites, and industry platforms.
Whatever you decide to do upon graduation, you’ll have strong employability having acquired the characteristics of a Fashion BA (Hons) graduate.
Our course produces adaptable, confident, and skilled graduates who can apply their knowledge to a variety of professional employment opportunities or post-graduate education.
Skills including critical reflection and self-learning, collaboration and curiosity, and the ability to solve problems in ways that are sustainable and ethical mean that our graduates are consistently employed across a wide range of design positions in the fashion industry including; Concept Creation, Designer, Product Developer, Buyer, Garment Technician, Fashion Entrepreneur.
See some of our student success stories below:
Class of 2025
Graduate Success Stories
Fashion Student Wins Top UK Bursary
As a Fashion student, you will be free to explore new and exciting cultural and responsible fashion concepts that develop your personal creative practice through experimental processes in pattern cutting, draping, printed textiles and embellishment, constructed knitwear and 3D digital fashion.
Examples include sustainable collections made using repurposing of an Aunt’s clothing, upcycling buoyancy devices and boat-sails and deadstock fabrics, conceptual collections that rebuild fabrics using a fabric-maché techniques, or that reflect the cultural heritage of afro hair, the Cayman Islands, or Mata Hari, as well as collections that challenge contemporary culture, or fictional narrative collections that collide abstract worlds.
We have enjoyed continued success at Graduate Fashion Week each year, gaining international recognition and industry attention, receiving awards in a range of categories, including Sustainable Fashion, Culture & Heritage, Fashion Portfolio, Considered Fashion, Creative Pattern Cutting, Range Planning, Sportwear & Leisurewear, Print, Knit, and Fashion Innovation.
Levi Warren-Howard
Will Howard-Jones
Emily Gibson
Zoe Jefferson
Our dedicated and experienced team has industry and research experience in Fashion design, pattern-cutting, making, textiles, knit, illustration, sustainability and digital fashion.
We facilitate exciting briefs through our academic and professional networks and association with the British Fashion Council and Graduate Fashion Foundation.
Ann Kirkbride
Eleanor O'Neill
Emma Goldsmith
Nick Sellars
An experiential learning environment is at the core of this course, and you’ll find that the facilities at Northumbria are excellent.
Studios include specialist Mac labs with the most current creative software.
Our workshops are equipped to industry standards facilitating both traditional and digital approaches to pattern cutting, printed textiles and constructed knitwear, with additional access to photo-labs, laser cutting and 3D printing.
Everything is supported by skilled technical staff who will help you make the best use of available facilities.
Our 24/7 Library holds comprehensive fashion design reference, also accessible through the ‘Blackboard’ eLearning Portal, that will guide your preparation for seminars and independent research.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-fashion-uusfhi1:
W233
4 Years Full Time Including Placement
During your 4 years of study you will incur additional costs such as consumable art & design materials, tools, fabrics and years, books, printing, technology, study visits, promotional materials, final collection materials and promotional exhibitions.
In years 1 to 3 your costs will vary according to your individual needs, but you will need to budget for a minimum of 2 x A3 sketchbooks per year, plus art materials (see equipment list), and printing costs.
The university provides basic industrial sewing kit and pattern grading square at cost price to first year students (approx.
£80).
You will also need to budget for calico for toiles, and fabric scissors, pins, etc.
(approx.
£50+), as well as any additional fabrics/trims over what is already provided by the university for year 1-3 project work.
There are optional, subsidised day study trips that may incur small personal costs e.g.
meals, entry to museums etc.
There are also optional student-funded international study visits, which vary in cost according to destination (budget for approx.
£500 for a 3-4 day study visit).
There may be costs associated with placement at Level 5.
Students on the programme have a mandatory Industrial Placement in Level 5.
While the programme advises against taking unpaid roles, students are responsible for any related costs not covered by their placement, and you may need to budget for accommodation, travel and subsistence, depending on your individual circumstances.
In final year you will need to purchase fabrics/yarns/trims for your final collection, and a presentation portfolio (£60+).
You might also incur exhibition and other costs for your final show, such as travel, accommodation, etc.
Participation in competitions in final year may also incur small entry fees (e.g.
£30).
While there are Macs to work on in university, students prefer to have their own Macbook (approx.
£1000).
£50) as well as a personal SD card for digital cameras (approx.
Final year students also have their own group website that costs participating students between £10-£20 each.
Beth Harrison-Frater
"Moving Still" Knitwear Collection
"Kyokusen", "Pleats on Pleats" & "In Charge" Womenswear Collections
Liz Riley
"The Architecture of Perfection" Couture Autumn/Winter 2026 Collection
"Can I Touch your Hair" Autumn/Winter 2023 Womenswear Collection
"Dentelle"- Autumn Winter 2023 Womenswear collection
Nell Linihan-Patel
"Eighteen" Textiles Collection
"Dirty, Filthy, Paradise"- Fall/Winter 2022 menswear collection
Methulie Jayawickrama
Kandy Lamissi collection.
Graduate Fashion Week 2025 winner.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-fashion-business-top-up-award-uuffbz1:
W239
Northumbria School of Design, Northumbria School of Design, Arts and Creative Industries
The first year of entry for this course is September 2026.
Fashion Business (Top-Up) aims to prepare you for a dynamic career in the fashion industry, combining elements of fashion communication, marketing and management.
You can develop a broad range of skills, including marketing strategy, multimedia consumer engagement, brand development, market research, trend analysis, buying and merchandising and retail management, digital data management, business ethics and responsible fashion commerce.
The course encourages creativity and critical thinking, challenging you to think about the fashion business responsibly while solving real-world problems.
You’ll be encouraged to refine your skills across various disciplines, from management to marketing, preparing you for a successful career in the fashion business.
A collaborative environment supports practical and theoretical projects, giving you the competitive edge needed to succeed in the fashion business.
BTEC HND or Foundation degree with overall pass in a related subject such as fashion communication-style, fashion design, business or marketing backgrounds
If you have qualifications from outside the UK, find out what you need by visiting: www.northumbria.ac.uk/yourcountry
This course aims to equip you with a diverse
skill set that opens a wide range of career opportunities in the fashion
industry.
The course fosters employability by aligning projects with industry
needs, promoting responsible, globally-conscious business practices.
Graduates from
our fashion courses have secured roles with top brands such as Gucci, Vogue,
and Adidas, and go on to work in roles like design, brand concept, trend
forecasting, marketing, and creative direction.
You’ll learn from
award-winning staff with professional experience in design, marketing,
illustration, and photography.
The course offers exciting briefs through
industry connections, including the British Fashion Council and Graduate
Fashion Foundation, giving you valuable real-world experience.
Dr Lee Barron
Professor Anne Peirson Smith
As a student, you can be supported by a range of resources
designed to foster the development of both digital and creative skills.
You'll
have the opportunity to engage with cutting-edge technologies and resources
that enhance your learning experience.
Our expert technical staff will guide
you through the tools and resources available, ensuring you have the necessary
support to build expertise in the fashion business field.
Additionally, our
comprehensive library and eLearning portal will serve as essential resources
for your independent research and academic preparation.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-fashion-communication-extended-degree-uusxco1:
Z042
Fashion Communication focuses on preparing you for the dynamic and thriving communication and creative industries that support and promote the fashion sector.
The course encourages the development of multiple skills in line with contemporary topics which influence the vast world of fashion.
Modules explore the communication of fashion, through image, experience, and the written word, presented in multimedia outputs including publications, essays, editorial work, film, photography and more.
The course boasts an impressive graduate recruitment rate and is represented across a range of industries and roles secured by our alumni.
Fashion Communication students have the necessary drive and ambition to work in fashion collaborators, innovators and future leaders.
You will have the opportunity to take part in a placement year.
This is a fantastic chance to gain real industry experience and we often find students who return from placements into final year are highly motivated and have a strong work ethic.
Previous students have held placements at Adidas, Anthropologie, Barbour, H&M, House of Holland , The 223 Agency, plus many more.
You will also have the opportunity to study with our overseas partners, focusing on relatable modules whilst experiencing new environments across the World.
Previous students have been to institutions in the USA, The Netherlands, Korea, and Australia.
Other courses you may be interested in: Fashion Design and Marketing BA (Hons) , Fashion BA (Hons) or check out all our other Fashion courses to find one that suits you.
This is your opportunity to engage with and test relevant subjects, disciplines and skillsets across modules to determine where your specialist fashion communication interests lie.
This includes photography, styling, promotion, content creation and more.
You will develop your technical, digital and soft skills through assessed presentations, publications, audio/visual, and portfolio work.
You become increasingly autonomous, with flexible opportunities across modules for greater critical enquiry, developing and refining your own specialist interests aligned to contemporary fashion communication practice.
You will build on the skills introduced previously, moving towards the Industry Standards, developing your own practices in parallel to your key passions, giving you the confidence to excel in your final year of study.
The opportunity for Study Abroad/Work Placement, will allow you to enhance your work in parallel contemporary industry standards and understanding.
This personal development impacts your professional aspirations; your capacity to defend your practice; and to formulate reasoned responses to critique, contextualising your work within the wider sector.
You seek to refine your practice, locating your work within current critical debate; further relying on your curiosity, imagination and empathy, to explore creative outputs.
You have the opportunity to further self-direct your work, aligning projects, modules and assessments to the construction of your professional identity, including the building and enhancement of a graduate portfolio to assist your future employability.
FA4028 -
Considerations in Fashion Communication (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will receive an introduction to the world of Fashion Communication, exploring the wide scope of the sector, its importance to the industry and elements of its history which have subsequently shaped contemporary fashion and design.
Content will be delivered which will consider significant shifts in fashion, focusing on aspects of production, promotion and consumption with reference to movements, styles, and influences which have formed the basis of innovation in fashion communication and styling.
The cultural, societal and political influences impacting the discipline will form a significant aspect of the module content and subsequent discussion, reflecting the changing shape of fashion across time and focusing on contemporary considerations.
This will align to current debate questioning the role of fashion within society and the potential of the industry to have a positive (or potentially negative) impact on the World at large.
You will select a topic related to the module themes to explore within your essay, making connections to factors which have shaped the sector.
This will also map to your own drive and desire to gain insight into aspects of the fashion industry and its history which may shape your future studies and beyond.
FA4029 -
Open Brief: Initiation (Core,20 Credits)
In the open brief module, students are given the autonomy to self-direct their work .
This is an opportunity to evidence and develop their interests within the fashion communication sector.
Students will select a subject that has driven them towards the programme which represents an area of fashion that they are passionate about.
They will then be tasked with fully immersing themselves in researching these subjects, gaining significant knowledge to disseminate across summative submissions.
The module will further focus on developing your communication and teamwork skills, considering subjects such as narrative structure, effective articulation of concepts and ideas, and delivering to an audience.
Your submission will include an initial team presentation linked to an assigned topic/area reflected within contemporary fashion communication.
This will seek to inspire your final portfolio piece, where you will document and disseminate a key area of the sector that is of interest to you, and which is relevant to the wider industry.
This will also allos you to simultaneously make use of traditional and emerging methods and technologies of effective communication.
This module is taught alongside further modules which will chart specific and significant influences and shifts impacting Fashion design and Fashion Communication practices, and should provide a further basis for information and inspiration.
FA4030 -
Styling and Curation 1 (Core,20 Credits)
This module introduces you to the discipline of styling and its influence within fashion communication.
You will gain insight into aspects of a stylist’s practice, including storytelling, creative vision and the practicalities of image creation.
Your work will be informed by research that encompasses cultural considerations and market awareness, using directed and self-sourced secondary materials to focus on factors that influence styling decisions.
This will demonstrate how styling is, and can be, inspired by actions shaping society, culture and politics, further considering communities, (sub)cultures and past/present events.
You will create a 1000 word analysis of your styling story, to be incorporated across your practice.
This will enhance your ability to reflect on practice, encouraging independent decision-making underpinned by cultural awareness and sensitivity.
Your final, captured styling decisions will form a curated editorial portfolio/lookbook.
Workshops, tutorials and technical sessions will help you to develop a practical understanding of art direction from initial research, to storyboard, shoot production management and final imagery.
FA4031 -
Brand Promotion and PR 1 (Core,20 Credits)
This module teaches you the fundamentals of branding, promotion and public relations (PR), an area of fashion communication that devises communication campaigns and generates content delivering key messages to a range of stakeholders on behalf of a brand.
You will specifically consider a small, emerging, grassroots brand, which may represent a diverse and/or global outlook on the fashion sector.
The main aim of the module is to build a foundational understanding of what promotion and PR is, where to find it, what agencies and in-house PRs and brand strategists/promoters do, and what multi-channel activities are conceived, implemented and activated in this area of industry.
Through a series of workshops, you will be shown a diverse range of case-studies focused on how fashion is promoted through public, promotional and commercial endeavours in the context of various brands of differing size and influence.
You will be introduced to basic research and analysis tools that help you to ascertain the value, function and role of PR in fashion.
You will learn core formal and tacit communication skills of a practitioner in industry, such as how to prepare a client-facing document, promotional planning, how to recognise and influence audiences, and be given opportunities to converse in public and pitch your work so that you develop a confident presentation style that is a step towards client-facing skills.
FA4032 -
Content Creation and Media 1 (Core,20 Credits)
This module requires students to consider the nature of content creation and its value to the contemporary fashion sector.
You will develop your communication skills across the module, while considering the characteristics of different platforms and the nuances of communicative practices across each area.
You will also learn to consider which media channels are appropriate in engaging defined audiences, and reflect on how content can reach these individuals  effectively.
You will enhance your communicative abilities through developing narratives around themes outlined in initial briefing sessions.
These themes will be based on contemporary and emerging trends and topics of interest to the fashion industry, asking students to ‘report’ their findings through relevant media platforms.
Hard and soft skills will be developed as you engage with technology and individuals in the development of your final editorial piece.
You will be required to gain audience insights, potentially recording and directing interviews with relevant parties to generate content which contributes to the conceptual development of final submissions.
You will receive direction and supervision linked to creating practical outputs recognised by industry practitioners, which will include digital facing editorial content, visual supporting materials and/or oral/aural content (e.g.
podcast, social media).
Students will produce further social content supporting and promoting their long form feature piece.
FA5033 -
Fashioning Identities (Core,20 Credits)
Fashion is a global business and the study of fashion communication means understanding how the sector exists within the wider environment.
This module fosters a deeper appreciation of theories, debates, issues and contexts, to help you  further develop your knowledge and understanding of the social, cultural, ethical and political issues relating to the fashioning of intersectional identities in the context of the fashion industry and locate your own practice.
During this module you will be expected to manage your own learning and build on existing skills and knowledge in a professional context.
An engaging programme of workshops will enable you to explore a range of methodologies for analysing fashion and explore wider cultural and media influences discussed across fashion studies.
Guided reading will help you to research primary and secondary sources independently and evaluate  your interdisciplinary critical understanding of the fashion field.
Through the combination of sessions focused on research, academic and technical skills you will develop strategies to effectively communicate your research findings.
This module will holistically assist you in your steps to becoming a competent communicator and theorist of fashion.
FA5034 -
Content Creation and Media 2 (Core,20 Credits)
The module asks you to develop your visual and written editorial skills and abilities through focused consideration of fashion through the lens of otherness and inclusivity.
Your project will be defined through exploration of a topic that often falls outside of the spotlight of fashion, celebrating uniqueness through feature content that identifies and demonstrates the value of individuality and diversity to the wider industry.
Students will develop and utilise their photography and image-making skills to create arresting and engaging visual materials to be considered alongside written/oral content in the form of digital-facing editorial features, long-form copy and/or verbal content (e.g.
podcasts/interviews).
Development of skills will be supported in sessions and assisted in the themes addressed in adjacent modules.
The final outcome of the module will reflect industry standards, and skills developed on this module will be utlilised throughout the rest of your undergraduate degree and beyond.
FA5035 -
Brand Promotion and PR 2 (Core,20 Credits)
In this module students are given the opportunity to create a promotional campaign based around meaningful subjects linked to fashion, supported by staff and technicians to generate work aligned to their interests and skills.
Students will follow a brief based on themes linked to ED&I and sustainable development, considering the social, political and cultural impact of the fashion world, and what can be done to activate ‘fashion’ for good.
You will consider specific, identified audiences, further supported in lectures/workshops focused on understanding consumer behaviour and audience reception.
You will be tasked with fully immersing yourself in researching your chosen niche area of consideration, gaining significant knowledge to disseminate across summative submissions.
The module will further focus on developing your communication skills across an array of potential outcomes and campaign assets.
This will allow you to improve your existing abilities, while giving you the opportunity to concentrate on your unique skillset.
It is a space to experiment with storytelling techniques and technology to iterate narratives aimed at affecting change.
You will present your initial findings and ideas to receive direction towards your final campaign.
This final submission allows you to evidence these abilities, simultaneously making use of traditional and emerging methods and technologies parallel with effective communication.
The skills gained here will support your further study and development, both in final year projects which are similarly self-directed, and beyond into employment.
FA5036 -
Fashion Trends and Futures (Core,20 Credits)
This module focuses on trend forecasting, discussing, deconstructing and disseminating the fashion environment of the future.
From the impact of emerging technology to societal and cultural shifts, students will consider those changes at the cutting edge of fashion communications and beyond into the distant future.
Those debates circulating present interests within the fashion sector will be explored to consider how they will shape the industry moving forward.
This knowledge will be invaluable as you move into your final year of study and beyond.
In a small team, you will construct an industry facing, professional level trend report, alongside submitting a research and development file demonstrating your engagement in the module.
The report will encourage you to explore conceptual themes linked to the future of fashion, while creating an aesthetically considered document which would be aligned to digital/online publication expectations.
You will also consider your place within the future of fashion through the construction of a professional practice portfolio inc.
elements such as CV, Cover Letters, Portfolio, Social Media Presence and/or Personal Website.
FA5037 -
Styling and Curation 2 (Core,20 Credits)
This module will ask you to consider and design a hypothetical 3D fashion space, enabling you to contribute to the expansion of contemporary practices within the field of fashion curation and styling.
You will investigate a diverse range of spaces and places in local and global cultural and societal contexts.
This will reflect contemporary commercial and disruptive practice in fashion and adjacent creative sectors, considering collaborations between artists, designers and brands.
Using primary and secondary research sources, you will develop your knowledge and understanding of the communication of fashion narratives and concepts, evolving your innovative and creative thinking through conceptual investigation of the audience experience.
Through workshops and independent research you will consider how fashion is curated and styled in spaces such as installations, presentations, visual merchandising, brand activations, events and shows.
You will apply your learning on the module through concept development, helping you to make creative connections in relation to a defined audience.
You will make use of traditional methods and emerging technologies in the visualisation of your fashion space concept, encouraging experimentation to build your repertoire of techniques, evolving your ability to realise your ideas in a professional and/or commercial context.
FA6026 -
Critical Research Project (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will identify, investigate and plan a self-determined critical research project on a topic of your own choice.
What are the key issues that will inform and shape the fashion industry in years to come?
What about the sector interests and excites you most?
This is your opportunity to fully immerse yourself in your subject, gaining expert knowledge in the process.
With weekly tutorial guidance from a dedicated mentor and discussion with your peers, you will read, research and reflect on the information you gather from primary and secondary sources.
You will be rigorous and focused in your research, finding the most up to date source material and potentially interviewing key players in your field.
Lectures on research methods, interviewing, ethics and project structure will help you to develop your research and writing skills.
This development will be evidenced formatively throughout, as you progress through plans and drafts supported by academic staff.
Your research will be written up in either a 5000 word dissertation or 3000 word visual report (inc.
500 word reflection) demonstrating a rich understanding of your subject, contemporary cultural awareness, critical analysis and sophisticated ability to discuss and communicate your findings.
FA6027 -
Live and/or Competition Brief (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will engage with a live and/or competition brief, as you continue to build a diverse portfolio of contemporary work that demonstrates your capabilities as a Fashion Communication professional.
Examples of briefs could include D&AD, Creative Conscience, industry partner live projects and beyond.
You will have the opportunity to explore techniques and methods of creative execution, through workshops with academic and technical staff.
Such practice could incorporate digital media, graphics, photographic, written, social and film media.
You will evidence your critical thinking, consideration of ethical, social and responsible issues, and understanding of current industry practice across your project from initial brief, through research, ideation and execution.
You will utilise your previous knowledge and development of your skillset to direct the work, refining your practice to present industry standard work that demonstrates your skills and capabilities to a potential employer.
FA6028 -
Final Major Project 1 (Core,20 Credits)
This module offers you an  exciting opportunity to reflect on your personal lived and embodied experience to produce a creative Zine, showcasing your visual image making and creative writing skills.
You will engage in experimentation with a range of visual methodologies and transdisciplinary ideas and practices associated with design, publishing, image and text, to create a professional level piece which may explicitly and/or implicitly inform part two of your final major project.
It is an opportunity to be truly creative, refine  your skills, and express your unique voice as a future fashion communicator.
Alongside this, you will research and conceive aesthetic concepts that will inform the development of your professional portfolio through personal development planning, allowing you to situate your practice within your chosen sector.
FA6029 -
Final Major Project 2 (Core,40 Credits)
This module gives you the opportunity to further focus on your interest and identity in relation to fashion communication, building a body of work that represents your potential to influence and shape your chosen industry sector.
You will fully immerse yourself in the research, conceptualisation and realisation of a self-determined project, building on the core skills, practice, methodologies, knowledge and understanding you have the programme.
Your work will demonstrate your understanding of social, ethical and cultural issues and influences inherent in contemporary and emerging fashion communication practice.
You will delve into your chosen topic, thoroughly researching the area and collating evidence/data to provide the foundation of your project.
You will then move to gain insights, concepts and ideas, supported by peers and staff in tutorial sessions and studio work.
You will define your outputs and, with further support, bring them to fruition.
The range of opportunities to present your final piece/s may include film, PR and promotional campaigns, experience designs, printed publications, exhibitions, digital platforms, and more.
You may have the opportunity to use this work to represent you through internal and external events and industry settings (competitions, shows, exhibitions).
Alongside your major project, you will continue to develop your professional exit portfolio website, presenting your Major Project and a selection of your projects through a digital format that reflects your personal branding, and positions your practice in relation to your choice of further study, industry or enterprise.
Given the variety of disciplines explored across the Fashion Communication degree, students often find a multitude of roles aligned to their skillset upon graduation.
As a result, the course has a very high rate of graduate employment, with students finding meaningful and relevant work as they exit their degree.
We instil a professional focused ethos across the programme, giving you the opportunity and scope to hone and refine your interests and future aims.
From high fashion styling to film making, to PR, planning and strategy, graduates of the course have secured roles working with the likes of Gucci, Vogue, Adidas and more.
Alec Maxwell
Kloss Films and British Vogue
Nicole Sime
Digital & Social Consultant
Douglas Miller
Freelance Fashion Stylist
Martha McKnight
O Agency
A significant element of the course is the opportunity for you to explore an array of disciplines, honing and refining skills relevant to your interests.
Briefs often allow for flexibility where you can explore concepts and craft submissions which spotlight your skillset.
From creating publications, to devising campaigns, to styling a shoot, opportunities range across modules, leading to work that truly represents you as a future fashion communicator.
Previous briefs have seen students work with Size?, Solomon, Dr Martens, Fenwick’s and more, giving a first-hand experience of the professional world you will enter upon graduation.
You will learn from award-winning, research-active academic staff who bring a wealth of professional experience from the world of fashion to Northumbria.
Being taught by industry experts will allow you to develop the essential skills you need to succeed in your future career.
Dr Sarah Bowman
Gayle Cantrell
Thomas Ellis
Dr Sarah Gilligan
Christopher Hodge
Hannah Layford
Louisa Rogers
As a student of the course you will have access to host of facilities there to help you develop your digital and craft skills.
You will be able to hone your software skills across multiple platforms, from editorial and layout, to photomanipulation, to film editing and more.
Multiple print facilities are available across campus, giving you access to large format inkjet, screenprinting and relief printing.
Our Laser Cutting and Book Binding Bureau facilitates projects of various size and scale, and our photography studio will allow you to produce imagery which meets the expectations and aesthetic standards of industry.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-fashion-communication-uusfco1:
WP30

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-fashion-design-and-marketing-extended-degree-uusxmd1:
Z048
Fashion Design and Marketing is a unique course that explores design and promotion for future markets.
Fashion needs new thinkers, doers, makers and risk-takers, problem solvers, and creative collaborators.
We will challenge you to generate brand concepts, design and make the key products, devise marketing strategies, and realise creative promotional outcomes.
You will learn to design responsibly and purposefully.
You will use creative and market research and trend analysis to predict a future market need, find a niche, or solve a problem through design and making.
A collaborative studio culture supports you in achieving your goals through practical and theoretical design and marketing projects with immersive industry experiences, giving you a competitive advantage in the job market.
Other courses you may be interested in: Fashion BA (Hons) or check out all our other Fashion courses to find one that suits you.
As a Fashion Design and Marketing student, you will use creative research, design development, and market research to propose original and exciting concepts for new and emerging markets.
Coursework may include designing and making projects, reports, presentations, or portfolios.
Learning outcomes will assess a combination of knowledge, practical skills, and self-reflection.
In your first year, you will develop your knowledge of a broad range of creative design disciplines and equip you with the subject knowledge and essential skills that will be required for your entry into this degree.
In your first year, you will learn from our skilled team of experts.
You will be introduced to the principles of fashion design and marketing, build confidence in practical skills, and expand your market awareness to discover what interests you.
You will develop trend forecasting, pattern-cutting, sewing, illustration, and photography skills in a supportive, creative studio and workshop environment.
In your second year, you will work on projects aligned with industry needs and explore global trends, emerging technology, sustainability, and ethical considerations.
You will develop a keen awareness of positively impacting society and the environment and start to align your interests with your career goals in preparation for industry placement, study abroad, or creative studio briefs.
Your third year gives you the opportunity of live industry experiences and studying abroad.
In your final year, you can tailor your projects and graduate portfolio to your career goals.
You'll create a brand, key products, and promotional outcomes.
Students have seen great success in childrenswear, accessories, lingerie, swimwear, sportswear, wearables for pets, and trend forecasting.
Realisation is not limited to garment design; it can be storytelling through photography, film, publication, and digital platforms.
FA4014 -
Introduction to Fashion Design & Marketing (Core,20 Credits)
In this Introduction to Fashion Design and Marketing module, you will be introduced to historical and contemporary influences in fashion design, providing the foundation to understand how fashion is traditionally produced, circulated, and consumed.
You will also explore some of the principal theoretical approaches to fashion marketing, equipping you with the tools to analyse its operation in the fashion industry.
By studying contemporary design influences, you will learn the history of fashion through various socio-cultural, political, and economic influences.
You will discover the roots of fashion and how it has evolved over time, giving you a better understanding of this constantly changing and exciting industry.
This module will introduce you to why and how styles have changed and how trends have emerged through key historical events and figures.
Through the introduction to fashion marketing, you will learn basic marketing concepts, principles, theories and techniques.
This module will introduce you to the marketing mix and how fashion businesses analyse, segment and target markets.
Through this module, you will learn to be independent, conduct individual study and work collaboratively to formulate ideas and articulate and present the subject confidently.
You will also reflect on what you have learned and how this has impacted your design principles at the start of your Fashion Design and Marketing student journey.
FA4015 -
Fashion Practice (Core,20 Credits)
Fashion Practice introduces you to the professional standards of contemporary fashion design.
Technical pattern cutting and sewing inductions, including sample and garment construction, are creatively recorded in a process journal.
Practical design research workshops and activities will contextualise the development of technical skills.
Our team of technical specialists will conduct workshops to help you acquire the necessary practical skills for adhering to health and safety regulations and procedures.
You will learn the fundamental methodologies and processes of pattern cutting and garment construction.
You will learn sewing techniques to create a garment and sampling.
Through demonstrations you will receive guidance on handling and preparing different types of fabric, laying out patterns and the basics of moulage.
Studio activities will complement the development of your technical skills, for example, analysing and drawing garments, peer reviews of student work across various levels, and presentations to inspire and contextualise the practical skills you will learn.
You will creatively record all skills development in a process journal.
This journal will serve as a sketchbook where you will record your progress by including observational drawings, technical worksheets, photographs, annotations, and small samples.
You can refer to this journal and add to it at any point during your academic journey as you improve your pattern-cutting and construction skills.
This module is a foundation that will prepare you for a creative make project later in the academic year and beyond.
FA4016 -
Fashion Photography & Illustration (Core,20 Credits)
In this Fashion Photography & Illustration module, you will learn essential intellectual, creative, and technical skills to prepare you for working in the fashion industry.
As a Fashion Design and Marketing student, you will be required to creatively communicate via illustration and visualise brand and product promotion through photography and film; this module will underpin the creative marketing outcomes of all future modules, helping you to develop your portfolio skills year on year.
The module will introduce the importance of being aware of intellectual property when creating fashion imagery and explore using AI as a creative tool, engaging in design discourse around the use of technology in fashion illustration and photography.
You will learn how brands use imagery, typography, and photography to convey their company brand values and products, and you will be able to apply this knowledge to develop your aesthetics and design awareness in your promotional work.
Fashion Illustration workshops will introduce you to fashion-related visual communication skills by exploring different types of hand-rendered and digital drawings for various purposes using a range of media techniques and experimentation.
You will learn to use Digital SLR cameras and photography equipment and how to set up our Fashion Photography Studio or a location shoot to produce contemporary fashion photography and film, considering light and composition.
You will also learn the importance of creating a personal visual narrative as well as digital image editing and creative publishing techniques to underpin your knowledge and understanding of visual literacy skills.
FA4017 -
Fashion Trend Forecasting (Core,20 Credits)
In this Fashion Trend Forecasting module, you will learn essential intellectual, creative, and technical skills to prepare you for working in the fashion industry.
You will be introduced to the fundamentals of Trend Forecasting in the fashion industry, a highly creative and inspirational field grounded in business practicalities, by a team of experienced specialist tutors.
Market research underpins trend forecasting, and both play a fundamental role in the fashion design industry.
Academics will introduce you to the key trend forecasting companies and explore the resources they produce and their role in design businesses.
Through fashion research, trend, and market analysis, you will explore innovative concepts to produce a fashion trend forecasting package communicated through illustrative, photographic, and graphic practices.
Through observation and practical exercises, you will learn visual communication skills by exploring different types of hand-rendered and digital drawing for a range of purposes, experimenting with a variety of media techniques.
AI will be explored as a tool for generating conceptual material for trend packages.
You will learn the importance of range planning and fashion specification drawing, and how these can be created using the relevant drawing tools and digital software.
You will learn about responsible fashion practices through human and planet-centred design principles, and you will apply these appropriately to your proposed range plan.
You will use your fashion trend forecasting package to inform the realisation of one design in your next module Fashion Product.
You will carry forward your chosen fashion specification drawing for further development through pattern cutting and construction in Block 2.
FA4018 -
Fashion Product (Core,20 Credits)
The Fashion Product module allows you to apply and build on what you have learned across your level 4 studies in blocks 1 and 2.
You will apply what you have learned in the Fashion Practice module, using the knowledge and skills gained through your technical inductions and introduction to pattern-cutting and construction techniques.
You will use your fashion trend forecasting package from block 2 to inform the realisation of one design, carrying forward your chosen specification drawing for further development and sampling.
You will demonstrate your knowledge of responsible practice through development and realisation of your proposed design.
As you progress to a creative garment project, you will evidence your independent judgement in your ability to generate and explore ideas through experimental pattern-cutting techniques.
You will also be introduced to a range of fabrications and given guidance on how to handle and prepare cloth.
What you have learned in the Fashion Photography and Illustration module will be utilised when you present a photostyling image of your realised design, considering the mood and aesthetic of your trend and how to capture this appropriately through photography or film.
FA5025 -
Fashion Futures (Core,20 Credits)
Fashion Futures is a dynamic module that combines research and theory with practical workshops and demonstrations to explore, discover and propose innovative concepts for fashion design and marketing.
Academic staff will introduce you to consumer behaviour theory, encourage you to analyse and debate contemporary design issues, and, through investigating ethics and sustainability in the fashion industry, demonstrate a comprehensive understanding of how these approaches and trends impact the fashion industry.
You will work collaboratively with peers to analyse a fashion business and present your report as a group to share your observations, explore topics through reflective discussion, and receive feedback from staff and peers.
To contextualise some of the themes explored in this Fashion Futures lecture series, you will participate in demonstrations and workshops to explore and experiment with new and emerging craft skills.
Workshops and demonstrations supported by the technical team will broaden your awareness and introduce you to new experimental making methods and digital skills to further enrich your practice as a designer for future consumers.
You will present and relate your skills development and research to areas of potential personal interest in the industry, further evidenced through the creative proposal of a fashion product or marketing concept that applies these principles.
You will creatively present or pitch this concept to staff and peers for feedback with the potential of developing this further to realisation in block 2 - module Fashion Concept to Product.
This module is designed to adapt and embed new technology, staff research and emerging design theory.
FA5026 -
Professional Practice Portfolio (Core,20 Credits)
The Professional Practice Portfolio module looks ahead to the next academic year to prepare you to embark on industry/enterprise placement, studying abroad or creative studio options.
The module will introduce you to the placement staff and systems to help you create professional self-branding, work on creative confidence and explore future ambitions.
You will select from a range of live or simulated industry briefs to tailor a portfolio project to your professional goals based on emerging strengths and interests.
You will develop confidence in creatively and professionally presenting your work for feedback by integrating professional practice skills to build a CV, write professional applications and practice pitching and interview skills.
This portfolio will support the application for Design Placement, Design Study Abroad, or Creative Studio.
Building on your prior learning from Level 4, this module follows industry practice; research will inform your idea and concept development, culminating in a professionally presented portfolio project that answers the industry brief.
You will appropriately apply a range of illustrative and digital media to creatively communicate research and development methods through to the realisation of sophisticated design outcomes.
You will advance your illustration skills and take your Adobe competencies to the next level.
Your portfolio will demonstrate your skills in producing a detailed fashion specification drawing using Adobe Illustrator or relevant software to communicate your designs to professional standards.
FA5027 -
Fashion Concept to Product (Core,40 Credits)
In this Fashion Concept to Product module, you will develop and refine a key concept from block one into a technical pack for realisation.
You will learn advanced design development techniques in 2D/3D to produce a detailed technical pack, including a design specification drawing and appropriate sampling.
You will work in our fashion studios and technical workshops with specialist staff to transform your design into a professionally finished garment or fashion product relevant to your target consumer and in a fabrication appropriate for your concept proposal.
You will record the development of creative and technical skills in a process journal, making clear links to your exploration and application of human- or planet-centred design methods and principles.
You will style and record your outcomes through photography or film to further communicate your journey from concept to product.
You will also gain confidence in presenting your ideas to a variety of audiences through peer reviews, tutorials and, where appropriate, industry feedback.
Your outcomes from this module will continue to prepare you for and build your portfolio content for applications for Design Placement, Design Study Abroad, or Creative Studio.
FA5028 -
Market Research & Enterprise (Core,20 Credits)
In this Market Research and Enterprise module, you will learn through dynamic studio sessions that will combine lectures, seminars, and creative workshops to introduce you to a range of market research methods to design, test and analyse.
Using the appropriate market research approach, you will work as a team to gather and analyse responses.
You will learn about the ethical considerations and important guidance in place to gain approval for primary research.
As a Fashion Design and Marketing student, we want you to create responsibly with a purpose for future markets.
You will use creative and market research, consumer behaviour theory and global trend analysis to predict future markets, find a niche market or solve a design problem or consumer behaviour challenge.
You can also use your market research data to build new and innovative routes to market or use a brand/product platform to educate consumers on important or emerging global trends/issues through creative marketing strategies and visual promotion (photo/film/digital spaces).
Based on the analysis of your research findings, you will work collaboratively to create and propose responsible and inclusive marketing, promotion, and enterprise concepts for a fashion brand (live or simulated).
You will professionally present and pitch your market research findings and enterprise proposal for feedback as a team.
Engaging in a collaborative project following industry practice to develop and pitch a creative marketing strategy will further develop your employability skills, ability to meet obligations to others, planning and organisational, and problem-solving skills.
Finding your role and productively contributing to a team will further prepare you for industrial placement, enterprise placement, study abroad and creative studio.
FA6018 -
FMP Concept (Core,20 Credits)
In the Final Major Project Concept module, you will conduct market and creative research to inform a brand and product concept for future markets.
As a Fashion Design and Marketing student you should design responsibility with purpose, taking into consideration the principles of human and planet-centred design.
You will develop your brand concept using your research findings to build a marketing strategy using the structure of the Marketing Mix.
Depending on your project direction, you will select and apply an appropriate design development method in 2D/3D.
Your research and development will be documented in a process journal or equivalent appropriate format.
You will design and propose a key product, 2D or 3D, that communicates your brand philosophy to your target consumers, a niche market or solve a design problem or consumer behaviour challenge.
You will learn how to present your product design in the appropriate format for this level of study, for example, an in-depth technical specification pack, a 3D digital illustration, storyboarding or layout design for publication.
These components will culminate in an exciting professional presentation or pitch, further developing your confidence and presentation skills in preparation for working in industry or post graduate study.
All elements of this module will inform the rest of your Level 6 studies.
You will realise your proposed product through exploration and making in the module FMP realisation.
You will then refine and illustrate your creative marketing strategy and promote your realisation through photography and film to include in your graduate portfolio.
FA6019 -
FMP Realisation (Core,40 Credits)
In your Final Major Project Realisation module, you will apply the research and concept generation from Block 1 to realise a range of appropriate creative and complex fashion outcomes to professional standards.
Understanding of responsible design practices and relevant commercial contexts in line with your personal practice ambitions will underpin this work.
Products may include but are not limited to garments, accessories, technical sportswear, lingerie, or swim, childrenswear or lifestyle products such as pet wear.
Students may develop or invent a design solution proposed through prototyping or sampling.
You are not limited to designing 3D or fabric outcomes.
You could use creative publications, film, or new emerging media or platforms to realise evidence of brand and product concepts.
You will develop your Final Major Project coherently across the year, applying research generated in the module FMP Concept to underpin your design thinking and justify your decision-making when proposing a product that appropriately communicates your brand and speaks to your target consumer.
This body of practical realisation work in 2D/3D will be appropriate to your Final Major Project concept as negotiated with the academic team.
You will creatively document, present and reflect on your process and final product/s, evaluating your consideration of human or planet-centred design principles and areas of personal development.
Your practical outcomes will inform the design and the creation of promotional outcomes, marketing strategy, and portfolio content in Block 3.
FA6020 -
Portfolio & Promotion (Core,40 Credits)
The Portfolio and Promotion module is in two components.
Component 1: Promotion (40%) Building on the brand identity established in Block 1, you will learn how to create brand communication assets through illustration, photography, digital media, and practical outcomes.
A body of 2D/3D promotion work will be designed and realised to further demonstrate your Final Major Project concept.
Promotional products may include but are not limited to print or digital publication and film, digital mock-ups, simulated marketing concepts, or promotional garments and accessories.
Component 2: FMP Portfolio (60%) You will learn to create and curate a portfolio aimed at your post-graduate ambitions.
This design portfolio will include research, development and illustrated final outcomes showcasing a range of advanced technical skills.
The portfolio will include an illustrated marketing plan and promotional photographic styling showcasing your final major project from concept to realisation.
You will reflect on your module FMP Concept and your proposed initial marketing mix.
Reflecting on and refining your initial proposal, you will use illustration and graphic design to present the narrative of your marketing strategy.
Your portfolio should reflect your design voice and ambitions and include a balance of hand-drawn and digital illustration, photography, typography & graphics.
National and international student competitions and graduate awards will be released throughout the year.
You will be updated about these opportunities in studio presentations and online.
You can use any work you produce for these briefs to enhance your graduate portfolio and extend the range of projects to appeal to potential employers.
Fashion Design and Marketing explores future markets.
We tap into often underserved niches within the fashion job market and produce multi-skilled and highly employable graduates who can problem-solve design challenges while considering multiple theoretical and practical perspectives.
The course reflects a commitment to responsible and globally conscious design practices and will prepare you for future employability by aligning projects with industry needs and nurturing your professional goals.
Graduates go on to work in a range of roles, including design, brand and product concept, trend forecasting, marketing, and creative direction.
See examples of some of our recent graduates and legacy alumni below, including the careers they have embarked on:
Chloe Grayson
Graduated 2022 / Junior Designer at H&M
Eleanor Roberts
Graduated 2023 / Design Assistant at WYSE London
Lily Clark
Graduated 2022 / Assistant Designer at Burberry
Olivia Gómez de Zamora
Graduated 2023 / Assistant Designer at 7 For All Mankind
Lauren Lansbury
Graduated 2023 / Studio and Marketing Manager at Susi Bellamy
Alexandria Walker
Graduated 2010 / Menswear Clothing Design Manager at Barbour
Kate Eldridge
Graduated 2010 / Head Design Manager- Print and Pattern at Pottery Barn Kids
Kestin Hare
Creative Director
Charlotte Wilson
Graduated 2011 / Founder/Director of Yana Activewear
Samantha Gildea
Graduated 2009 / Head of Footwear Development at Lacoste
As a Fashion Design & Marketing student, you will be free to explore new and exciting fashion markets for future consumers.
Students have seen great success in a range of product and promotional projects.
As well as making students learn storytelling through illustration and photography.
Examples have included outerwear made from up-cycled airbags, fit through knit to create plastic-free lingerie, biodegradable garments using hemp for soil conservation, celebrating heritage and identity, and routes to market in the metaverse.
Award-winning projects include trend, fashion marketing, childrenswear, accessories, lingerie, swim, and sportswear.
Celebrating our student's achievements throughout the year by showcasing their work locally, nationally and internationally when appropriate helps to build your confidence and increase opportunities for building your industry network.
Our annual REVEAL exhibition and fashion event invites industry, family and friends to view work in the design school and online.
We have seen great success at Graduate Fashion Week each year, gaining national and international recognition and industry attention, receiving awards in a range of areas, including Pattern Cutting, Inclusive Fashion, Textiles, Fashion Marketing, Childrenswear, Illustration, Lingerie and Swimwear.
Our dedicated and experienced team has industry and research experience in design, making, marketing, illustration, and photography.
Sarah Walton
Assistant Professor / Programme Lead
Working in our design studios and digital lab spaces you will develop illustration and creative communication skills.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-fashion-design-and-marketing-uusfmd1:
W232
During your 4 years on the programme you will incur additional costs for art & design materials, fabrics, research trips (optional and mandatory), books and printing costs.
From years 1-3, these costs will vary according to the individual’s needs, but you will need to budget for a minimum of 2-3 x A3 sketchbooks per year, 1 A3 presentation folder/portfolio for assessment submission, consumable drawing and presentation materials (see equipment list), sewing equipment such as the sewing pack supplied by university at cost price – approx.
£30), calico for toiles, paper and fabric scissors, pins, etc.
£50+), any additional fabrics/trims over what is already provided for project work by the university (variable costs according to individual requirements).
There can be subsidised optional day study trips that may incur minimal personal costs e.g.
There are also optional student-funded international study visits, which vary in cost according to destination.
In final year you will need to purchase fabrics/yarns/trims for your Final Major Project.
Costs will vary according to individual needs.
You may also incur exhibition costs for your final show such as travel, accommodation, etc.
Top Department - Northumbria is ranked 11th in the UK for Fashion & Textiles (Guardian University League Table, 2025).
Top University - Design at Northumbria is ranked 4th in the UK (Daily Mail University Guide, 2025).
Student Rated - 100% of students studying Fashion Design & Marketing at Northumbria believed their course positively challenged them to achieve their best work (NSS, 2025).
Research Power - Art and Design at Northumbria is ranked 4th in the UK for research power (REF, 2021).

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/fashion-design-ma-dtffnd6:
Fashion Design MA encourages you to creatively challenge the
traditional boundaries of fashion and develop your individual fashion practice
through a rigorous understanding of applied research processes.
On this flexible and diverse course, you will conduct a
self-directed research project relevant to your chosen professional career path
that explores and responds to new dialogues in design; investigating innovative
materials, techniques and technologies that are shaping our evolving
world.
From our dedicated MA Fashion studio, you will have access
to premium facilities including a machine room, photographic
studio, textile studio, knit studio, and digital fashion programs, all
supported by specialist
staff and technicians.
Assessed by portfolio, process book, artefacts and thesis,
this full-time research-driven course responds to significant demand from
industry and academia for graduates who are fashion thinkers.
See other similar courses you may be interested in: MA Sustainable and Ethical Fashion
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree in a relevant discipline such as Fashion Design, Textiles, Fashion Communication, Product and other creative industry courses that include design development through reflective practice.
Applicants are required to submit an online portfolio with their application
DE7053 -
Fashion Context and Relevance (Core,20 Credits)
During Fashion Context and Relevance  (DE7053) you will have the opportunity to explore Fashion Research Principles alongside Fashion Context: Past, Present and Future.
This module builds on two fields of knowledge, Fashion Research Principles and Fashion Context.
The first aims to explore design research methods and exploratory research techniques appropriate to the field of fashion.
You will critically evaluate these principles and explore areas in which they can challenge the status quo.
You will learn from specialist researchers, who will introduce a variety of explorative research methods, which you will interpret relative to your own practice and in line with your PDP.
You will apply this knowledge in co-creative practice and will reflect on your experience to summarise the utility and limitations of methods employed.
Through fashion context you will learn to situate design in the contemporary world and identify the impact of external factors on your own design practice.
We will explore and question the traditional structures that designers work within, creating a foundation to challenge fashion.
You will reflect upon the transferability of fashion research principles and fashion context and will be able to apply your knowledge to your personal projects in Fashion Research Proposal (DE7058) and Proposal for Sustainable Innovation (DE7052).
DE7055 -
Industry & Enterprise (Core,20 Credits)
In Fashion Industry & Enterprise (DE7055) you will have the opportunity to apply and practice the fashion research principles gained in your Block 1 studies, and Block 2 modules - Fashion Research Experimentation (DE7059) or Responsible Design Experimentation DE7054, within innovative and collaborative, real-life design situations.
Through projects with industry or other organisations and working in multi-cultural/multi-disciplinary teams, the underpinning knowledge and understanding applied here will help you learn effective ways of working as a reflective practitioner using action research processes within an industry context and relative to your own practice.
Through this pass/fail module and supported and informed by academic staff research specialisms, you will be able to interpret the utility and limitations of methods employed and appreciate the transferability of design thinking to different contexts and domains.
DE7057 -
Project Thesis and Portfolio (Core,60 Credits)
In this module you will learn to advance your Research Through Design and take a directional approach to your personal design brief.
You will develop your reflective practice and reach insights and analytical conclusions in your chosen field of study as outlined in your year-long Personal Development Plan (PDP).
You will synthesise the learning from blocks 1, 2 and 3 to create your final Thesis and Portfolio.
These will evidence an analysis of advanced academic research, debates, and exploratory practice in the production of theories that demonstrate real world discipline specific value within an industry context.
You will be expected to take an increasingly autonomous approach to your studies at this stage in developing, embedding and clarifying personally developed research themes theories and experiences that will be realised through either Option 1: a design thesis of 6,000 works alongside a practical design project and portfolio.
Option 2: a design thesis of 15,000 words, and portfolio that demonstrates the student’s mastery of and contribution to new knowledge.
MA Fashion Design will enable you to take control of your design direction and align your own passion and motivation with the value you create for business and society.
You will learn to hone your capabilities, refine the focus of your design contribution and create your ideal future professional self.
MA Sustainable and Ethical Fashion will give you the knowledge and tools to orchestrate design thinking and process at a strategic level in organisations.
You will build a meta view of transferable design knowledge that will enable you to recognise the challenges of responsible practice within the fashion industry.
You will learn to navigate complexity and develop your understanding of sustainable and ethical creative practice, product and service opportunities and strategic innovation.
On completion you will have the skills and abilities to make a positive impact in the design industry, and the knowledge and experience to be able to make purposeful contribution to the world.
DE7058 -
Fashion Research Proposal (Core,20 Credits)
Fashion Research Proposal gives you opportunity to explore an individually initiated project and to investigate creative and experimental approaches to a specific topic of enquiry.
You will build your design project direction and philosophy based upon the skills and knowledge gained in this module, and the supporting Fashion Context and Relevance module DE7053 combined with your previous experience.
You will analytically examine and discuss strategic and future focused trends that will better enable the production of a design proposition framework, upon which your design solutions will be constructed and evaluated.
You will explore, use and evaluate traditional and new materials and processes relevant to your concept.
Ultimately this will result in you defining a research question, developing a manifesto and identifying fashion practice methods, constructing a brief, and in turn establishing parameters or agendas to work within for a Fashion Research Proposal.
You will learn from staff and technicians with rich research and commercial experience from the Fashion Design Industries that will help you to explore new ways of thinking and practices in design.
DE7059 -
Fashion Research Experimentation (Core,20 Credits)
Fashion Research Experimentation (DE7059) provides the platform from which you engage directly with your subject specialism framed in the Fashion Research Proposal module (DE7058).
It addresses the advancement of fashion concepts/artefacts through intense critical design practice that explores materials, technologies and processes.
Through studio and workshop experimentation you will gain an understanding of how to utilise design tools to create meaningful change, identifying project focus theory and practice and building the research case.
Your experiments and iterations are documented as drawings, photographs, sampling and other media as a creative process journal of work that express the possible trajectory and development of the final artefact(s).
It is expected that you will produce an investigative, creative and original design project that will push boundaries and current research to sit at the forefront of future thinking within the Fashion discipline.
Supported by the Industry and Enterprise Module DE7055 that will  contextualize your own work and design practice in relation to its real-time application in industry or academia, the reflective practice employed throughout this module will demonstrate your creative, analytical and intellectual ability that will ultimately enable you to become a professional practitioner within the Fashion Design Arena.
Assessment is through a Creative Process Journal of 2Dimensional and 3Dimensional Design work and accompanying year -long  Personal Development Plan (PDP).
DE7060 -
Fashion Project Realisation (Core,40 Credits)
Fashion Project Realisation builds on previous study conducted in DE7058, DE7059, DE7053 and DE7055 modules and challenges you to design, propose, record and realise contextual and innovative fashion artefact(s) relevant to your identified Fashion Research Proposal.
Your formal fashion artefact proposal will be documented in appropriate fashion media (visual fashion boards, design development pages, technical specifications, illustrations) and demonstrate your practical methodology and expertise in the use of fashion materials, processes, technologies, and environments.
Recorded as a Development Portfolio of work that demonstrates fashion design solutions that challenge fashion norms through the process of synthesis of observation, investigation, speculative inquiry, visualisation, and making that you have undergone, your Development Portfolio will provide content and shape your Final Fashion Portfolio conducted in DE7057 Project Thesis and Portfolio module.
Whilst providing part of the design solution space, artefacts produced are further contextualised and validated in a written Draft Contextual Review that positions the research and practice within academic, fashion and human or planet-centred fields of enquiry in preparation for the project thesis.
Your continuing personal learning journey is further reflected in the interactive Personal Development Plan (PDP), Assessment is through a Developmental Portfolio of 2Dimensional and 3Dimensional Design work, Artefacts, Draft Contextual Review and  accompanying reflective year-long Personal Development Plan (PDP).
Fashion and Textiles at Northumbria is ranked 11th in the UK (Guardian University League Table, 2025).
You will graduate with the expertise and knowledge required
to become a world-class designer and design
change-maker.
Throughout the year, you will have the opportunity to engage
in a range of events such as conferences and guest lectures to help further
your knowledge and build networks to further your future career aspirations.
You
will also work on industry-led, collaborative projects that practically reflect
the nature of working within the design industry.
This flexible course provides the opportunity to follow a
variety of career paths, including research-focused roles such as in Ph.D.
or
fashion research, as well as exciting opportunities as designers, product
developers or entrepreneurs within the fashion industry.
Olivia Hildreth
Graduated 2022.
Costume trainee for Film/TV
Bea Leao Do Prado Wall
Graduated 2022, Assistant Designer, Denim and Casual, London
Graduated 2022,
Assistant Designer, Denim and Casual, London
Emily Cody
Senior Brand Marketing Activations Executive, End Clothing
Max Telford
Graduated 2023, Production Assistant, Wawwa
Graduated 2023,
Production Assistant, Wawwa
Adnan Sunny
Graduated 2023.
Freelance Designer
Kenny Macrae
Technical Support Manager (Design), Northumbria University
Lewis Kingsley
Product and Apparel Designer, Berghaus
Our MA Fashion Design course nurtures the creative freedom
to explore a self-initiated area of research that is reflective of your
expertise and future career aspirations, developing your creative practice and
knowledge of design theory and research principles.
You will explore your
chosen field of study through experimental and diverse approaches to fashion
design, improving your communication skills through collaborative research and
engagement with the creative industries.
Here are some examples of our graduates’ impactful work that
demonstrate the diversity and creativity you can expect to be part of.
Our skilled and experienced teaching team have expertise in
Fashion Higher Education combined with a broad experience of the Fashion Design
Industry, creating engaging projects through their academic and professional
connections and supporting your learning through their knowledge and research
interests.
The MA Fashion course offers an immersive learning
environment.
As a Masters student, you will have access to a dedicated studio
space and 'MA Fashion Lab', equipped with industrial sewing equipment, pattern
cutting tables and Macs running the latest creative software.
Additional large capacity fashion workshops are equipped to
industry standards, facilitating traditional and digital pattern cutting
methods, printed textiles, and constructed knitwear.
You also have access to
photo-studios, laser-cutting, and 3D printing, supported by skilled technical
staff.
The 24/7 library contains a comprehensive collection of
fashion design reference, accessible through the 'Blackboard' eLearning Portal,
to support independent research.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-film-extended-degree-newcastle-uusxli1:
Do you want to combine practical filmmaking skills with the
ability to critically analyse film in a range of contexts?
From filmmaking to film criticism, digital content creation,
film festival programming, archival curation, and more, this BA (Hons) Film
degree provides you with the comprehensive knowledge and skills needed for
employment in the screen industries, and beyond.
Formerly known as ‘BA Film and TV Production’, this degree
is taught by Northumbria’s leading film practitioners, theoreticians, and
historians – all bringing research to life in your workshops, lectures, and
seminars.
The BA Film combines theory and practice: you will make your
own film projects, from dramas and documentaries to music and experimental
films, while also exploring the impact of film on society and culture.
This degree is dynamic, interdisciplinary, and addresses
real world challenges, all while equipping you for your career in industry.
Award Winning – You will be taught by award winning film
producers/writers such as Len Collin and Johnny Walker.
Taking on Tomorrow – This course is contemporary,
future-facing, and critically rigorous, preparing you to make positive impact
in the world.
Research Powerhouse – Art and Design at Northumbria is
ranked 4th in the UK for research power (REF, 2021).
This is a rise of 6 places
compared to 2014.
See other similar courses you may be interested in: BA Media and Communications or BA Theatre and Performance
This course is delivered through a mix of classroom, studio-based learning, and engagement with cultural centres such as the BFI partnership, to further enhance your learning.
Modules will be taught through lectures, seminars, practical sessions and workshops.
You’ll be assessed using a range of methods, including practical project submissions, essays, and presentations.
There is also the opportunity to undertake a professional placement where you can gain real-world, practical experience.
Alternatively, you can take a year to study abroad in the likes of mainland Europe or North America.
You will embark on a Dissertation or a Practical Filmmaking Project (called 'Practice-Based Research Project') which is an opportunity to focus on what interests you most while developing your portfolio and academic skills.
Students studying BA Film benefit directly from our cultural education partnership with the British Film Institute (BFI).
Our partnership with BFI means you will have access to masterclasses, workshops, Q&As, and ‘industry ready skills development’ sessions.
You may also have an opportunity to work on a live brief alongside the BFI, gaining hands-on experience.
All students and staff at Northumbria also have access to BFI Player , to stream critically acclaimed films for free!
From the very start of your studies, you are supported as you begin to develop transferable skills, such as critical thinking, communication, team working, and confidence.
On the course, you’ll learn how to use industry-standard video/sound editing software, identify the key elements of screenwriting, and understand the logistics and planning required pre- and post-production.
An invaluable opportunity for first-hand employability skills will be your Professional Placement.
Here, you will be immersed in the industry, getting to grips with exactly how your knowledge can be applied, and gaining confidence, professionalism, and skills which will stay with you for life.
Many modules have been specifically designed to enhance your employability and encourage you to consider how your interests align with potential future career routes after graduation.
For example, ‘Event Cultures’, explores events planning, management, and media promotion, while ‘Film Across Media: Transmedia Storytelling and Marketing’ introduces you to how the media industry utilises world-building, to spread traditional context across media platforms.
It includes a foundation year which helps develop your skills, build confidence, and foster creativity.
The extended degree gives you the chance to establish a strong academic foundation while exploring a wide range of creative art disciplines within film, media, and theatre.
The foundation year of this course is dedicated to developing the fundamental skills needed to grow as a critical and reflective arts practitioner, covering practical, intellectual, and creative aspects.
You will engage with topics such as effective communication, teamwork, time and project management, research, and digital literacy.
You’ll also gain hands-on experience in dynamic and challenging studio environments.
As part of the year, you will complete an assessed portfolio, which may include various components like performances, short films, artwork, and live practice.
UCAS Code Z047
Discover what kind of work students have done on the Film course.
Find out more about what we've been getting up to.
Northumbria Film Alumni, Lol Crawley, wins BAFTA for Best Cinematography.
Royal Television Society recognition for Northumbria film makers.
Award-winning film maker awarded honorary degree from Northumbria University.
Award win for students animation work.
Students prepare to REVEAL graduating exhibitions.
You’ll be
introduced to theories and concepts which will inform your critical thinking,
analysis and film practice.
For example, how does the method of recording sound
or colour grading impact the story being told?
How has film developed over
time, and how might that inform future innovations?
You will also have the opportunity to
undertake a Professional Placement with one of our industry partners – a chance
to gain real-world industry experience and enhance your employability
skills.
Examples of previous placements
opportunities have included working with Third Films, Arcus Studios, Twenty Six
03 and Candle & Bell Productions.
You’ll tailor your studies depending on your interests – choosing from modules such
as ‘Media, Gender and Sexualities’ and ‘Horror Film Cultures’.
Informed by
staff expertise and research, these modules place you at the heart of current
conversations in the industry, allowing you to bring new ideas to the table.
All the while, you’ll develop a
confidence in using industry equipment, with plenty of opportunity to create
and innovate on your own productions.
See all modules for this course
Analysing Media and Film
Hollywood
Horror Film Cultures
Media, Gender and Sexualities
You
will be guided by lecturers with real experience, many of whom are active in
the industry.
Our academic team includes BAFTA nominees, TV Drama writers and
award-winning producers and directors.
You will have
the opportunity to interact with a wealth of industry contacts and alumni
who support the course in many different ways, from
industry talks and guest lectures to student placements, keeping the course
content fresh and relevant.
The
insight and practical knowledge you will gain from this first-hand contact will
help you develop the professional skills you will need to move into the
challenging but rewarding film and television industry.
Dr Len Collin
Dr Cecilia Stenbom
Robert Jefferson
Sanghita Sen
Dr Kate Egan
For your practical film
productions you will have access to broadcast-quality camera and sound
equipment, Apple Mac labs and our ‘Avid’ editing facility with Protools audio
mixing and a professional grading suite.
BA Film is an Avid learning
partner (arguably the industry's leading editing platform) and our Avid
certified instructors help you become expert in this important system.
While most of our student films
are made on location, there are studio rooms used for teaching and specialist
lighting, with greenscreens for effects shots when needed.
You can also access your
eLearning Portal/Blackboard from anywhere.
This portal provides quick access to
course materials and support, course information, such as class materials,
handbooks and supplementary materials like weblinks and examples as well as
working as a communication hub with course mates and lecturers.
The
modules on this course are directly informed by the research specialisms of the
academic team, many of whom are internationally recognised for their work in
media and film.
For example, ‘Horror Film
Cultures’, draws on our substantial staff
research expertise in this area, examining the genre in a range of contexts,
including the socio-political, historical and industrial.
With
extensive experience as researchers, the staff not only introduce you to
current research topics, but they also equip you with the skills to become a
researcher yourself.
Graduates of this course will be
equipped with a hybrid knowledge of important issues that shape our lives, and
the skills to express their critical ideas in practical film projects and
academic writing.
On completion you will be well
placed to move into a career as a producer, editor, director, screen writer,
critic, or researcher.
Graduates from the department include directors of
photography, Lol Crawley (Mandela: Long Walk to Freedom, Four Lions, Utopia 2),
and Si Bell (Ripper Street, Peaky Blinders, The Serpent), directors, Neil
Marshall (The Descent, Game of Thrones ,Westworld) and Chris Foggin
(Fishermen's Friends, Bank Of Dave), and screenwriter Sean Conway (Ray Donovan,
All I See is You, World War Z).
You can find other alumni on TV
shows such as Peepshow and Cuckoo (Emma Lawson), This is England 90’,
Wolfblood, Ripper Street, and craft roles in features like Prometheus and Star
Wars: The Rise of Skywalker.
Whatever you decide to do, you
will have strong employability as a result of having acquired the skills of
critical reflection, entrepreneurship, collaboration and curiosity, and the
ability to apply your knowledge to solve practical film-making problems in ways
that are sustainable and ethical.
Join us at an Open Day to experience Northumbria.
Speak to students, staff and get a flavour for life at Northumbria.
AD3042 -
Critical Cultural Encounters (Core,40 Credits)
This interdisciplinary module will enable you to synthesise learning from across the programme locating practices of film, media, theatre and performance, and fine art within wider artistic, cultural, and geopolitical contexts and current debates.
On this module, you will develop and utilise a broad range of key skills for university.
These will include demonstrations of cogent academic prose, accurate academic citation, research skills, independent learning, oral presentation, and teamwork.
The module fosters employability through enabling you to develop foundational knowledge in transferable skills such as time management, IT skills, critical thinking, and evaluation.
AD3043 -
Culture and Society (Core,20 Credits)
This module will develop your core knowledge and understanding of the connections between culture and contemporary society.
You will explore those ideas at the intimate personal and local level by reflecting on, for examples, your own cultural engagements and how said engagements are facilitated (e.g.
through various media platforms).
Equally, you will connect said engagements to broader debates, spanning out to the international context.
The module will introduce you to major concepts and approaches in cultural studies, supplemented with examples from the contemporary mediasphere.
You will explore, for example, how media representations are influenced by external factors such as regulation, ownership, and audience behaviours, but also how media has transformed our social relations, altered our understandings of world events, and impacted on what matters to us (our cultural and societal values).
You will also examine how culture and the study of which has developed over time and how technology has altered how social subjects communicate with each other.
You will also develop your skills in critical thinking by analysing examples taken from the contemporary world, and by discussing ideas with your tutors and your peers.
AD3044 -
Film Foundations (Core,20 Credits)
The module introduces you to a range of core practical film production and creative skills, as well as developing transferable personal skills to support your future study and employability.
You will also build your knowledge and understanding of the processes, trends and issues in the contemporary media landscape.
You will be introduced to practical and creative skills including pitching, writing, production research, production logistics, scheduling, storyboarding and directing, in addition to the creative and technical fundamentals of camera, sound and editing operations.
You will learn essential softer skills such as time management, interpersonal skills, risk assessment, presentation and negotiation skills – all of which help to prepare you for your choice of degree path.
You will also acquire critical and reflective skills, as you respond to your own work and that of others, reflect on your own personal development, and set yourself goals for improvement.
Your knowledge will grow to include an understanding of different styles and approaches to storytelling and film content, across a range of film activities, sitting your work alongside that of other filmmakers and increasing your awareness of the range of formal approaches across a wide range of media production.
You’ll also progress with a solid grounding in principles of risk assessment, to ensure safe filming practice.
AD3045 -
Media Genres (Core,20 Credits)
The module develops your understanding of the significance of genre within the production, reception and analysis of screen media.
It explores what we understand by the term genre through an analysis of the codes and conventions of major screen types and how said codes and conventions are conveyed through promotional discourse and received by media audiences.
It considers how genres change over time according to evolving aesthetic, social, technological and industrial contexts.
You will learn about key developments in genre scholarship, and how critical and theoretical approaches can be applied to specific examples.
In so doing, you will gain an appreciation of the importance of textual, contextual and critical analysis to an appreciation of screen media production and culture.
AD3046 -
Performance Practices (Core,20 Credits)
Performed representations are everywhere.
Whether you are interested in making plays and performances for the stage, creating film or TV dramas or documentaries, or more broadly in understanding the importance of mediated representations, ‘performance’ is a critical aspect of the contemporary world.
This module will introduce you to a range of performance practices, both as a maker of performance and from critical perspectives.
Exploring (indicatively) ‘theatre sports’, improvisation, play, contemporary performance techniques, staging of scenes from plays, the module will help you to understand why performed representations matter in the world, and how you might go about making them.
Designed to be an active, fun, dynamic and engaging learning experience, through the module you will not only develop an enhanced understanding of performance practice but will also acquire enhanced communication, team work, and problem-solving skills that will be relevant to all aspects of your studies.
MI4007 -
Film History (Core,20 Credits)
The module introduces you to key developments in the history of cinema, from its origin in the 1890s to the present day.
It engages with a range of national cinemas and historical periods in order to provide you with an understanding of some of the ways in which films have been manufactured, received and discussed.
It covers topics such as the following: •	Early Cinema •	Hollywood cinema:  classical narrative cinema, the studio system, technology •	European cinema challenging the mainstream:  Surrealism, German Expressionism, Italian Neo-Realism, Soviet Cinema •	Movements in Post-1945 cinema:  European Art Cinema, the French New Wave, British New Wave, New German Cinema, Underground US cinema, the British Heritage Film, Dogme 95 •	Post-Classical Cinema:   New Hollywood Cinema, the Blockbuster, Digital Cinema, Popular East Asian cinema
MP4021 -
Approaches to Documentary (Core,20 Credits)
Approaches to Documentary introduces you to the methods and approaches used to make effective practical media productions, specifically documentary film projects.
Developing towards the production of a short factual film project, this module introduces you to the relevant critical contexts and production techniques required to create all film projects.
It pursues an understanding of film-making history, theory and conventions, while you learn how to articulate a film idea from script to screen.
The module will introduce you to ideas for structuring and organising your film to the best creative and narrative effect.
The documentary script treatments are generated and developed in the Semester 1 module, Approaches to Storytelling and these treatments are then produced in this module to make a short documentary film with the theme ‘Portrait of a Person’.
The Module takes 11 weeks, with the first half of the semester dedicated to exploring the concepts and techniques required and the second half to the planning and production of the film work to completion.
MP4022 -
Approaches to Storytelling (Core,20 Credits)
‘Approaches to Storytelling’ asks you to consider what a story is and how storytelling works on screen.
You will develop your knowledge and understanding of storytelling as well as the processes behind it.
This module is an opportunity to test ideas out, experiment and take risks in the development of a detailed concept for a short film.
Through a series of lectures, seminars and practical tasks this module introduces you to a range of narrative concepts and approaches both critical and creative.
This module will introduce the fundamentals of storytelling and screenwriting, as well as historical development of screenwriting, scripted and non-scripted approaches to film making, representation and ethics in screenwriting.
During the module, you will have the opportunity to develop practical skills including writing, production research, storyboarding.
You will also acquire critical and reflective skills, as you respond to your own work and that of others.
Furthermore, this module enables you to develop transferable personal skills to support your future study and employability.
MP4024 -
Sound and Editing (Core,20 Credits)
'Sound and Editing' aims to introduce you to the considerations and definitions surrounding sound and editing in film production.
Sound is an often-overlooked aspect of film production, but it is a powerful tool in adding resonance to productions and also needs to be technically precise.
This introductory module looks at the place of sound in your understanding of film projects and engages with the practicalities of effective sound recording and basic mixing.
Editing is one of the key skills in delivering projects and this module introduces you to non-linear editing platforms, in workshops that include the architecture of the platforms, workflows, basic editing techniques and delivery formats.
You will make a ‘soundscape’ to discover the potential of sound and also attend editing workshops to become conversant with the processes of editing.
You will learn about the importance of critical context to add value to your work
MP4025 -
The Audiovisual Essay (Core,20 Credits)
The Audiovisual Essay module incorporates research into film and/or other media through the production of an audiovisual essay or video essay.
So, for example, you could make an argument about the use of lighting in Star Wars, by cutting up shots of Star Wars alongside some other elements, such as text onscreen, voice over, split screen, etc.
The module allows you to develop your critical, theoretical, and/or historical knowledge of film and/or other media through reading, close textual analysis, and video editing.
This module requires you to work and research independently and realise a project that interests you.
The practical realisation of these projects will be through the use of technology enhanced learning tools, that is, hardware and software that are instrumental to film production and post-production, combining theory and practice in the creation of an authentic (real world) assessment.
The module will be run through a Lecture and Workshop/Seminar format.
You will be assessed and provided summative feedback on three components: a short-written proposal; an audiovisual essay, and research informed critical reflection.
You will also be provided with verbal formative feedback each week in class based on weekly homework exercises produced.
The module will encourage you to develop your critical thinking skills alongside their practical competency in making an audiovisual essay.
Audiovisual essays are very popular formats online and you will have the opportunity to produce work that can speak to an extensive online community of makers and audiences.
MP4026 -
Analysing Media and Film (Core,20 Credits)
This module will introduce students to analysing media texts critically, in order to provide them with an understanding of some of the key ways in which media texts are constructed and how they communicate information and express ideas.
Through learning about a variety of critical approaches to media analysis, students will develop analytical techniques that will deepen their critical skills and understanding of their own creative practice.
Topics covered will include, for example, image composition, signs and symbols, mise-en-scene, cinematography, sound, and narrative, as well as an exploration of terms such as intertextuality, genre and authorship.
The module will look at a variety of examples that range across different types of media, including film, television, advertising and so forth, and students will develop a range of skills in order to critically analyse media texts in relation to institutional, technological, aesthetic and cultural contexts.
YA5001 -
Academic Language Skills for Arts (Core – for International and EU students only,0 Credits)
AD5003 -
Arts Study Abroad (60 credit) (Optional,60 Credits)
MP5027 -
Cinematography (Core,20 Credits)
This Module further develops and embeds concepts introduced at Level 4, building on your knowledge of visual language.
Cinematography describes the art of photography and camerawork in filmmaking, not just capturing pretty pictures.
Cinematic storytelling manipulates our emotions, revealing character and plot - sometimes without our immediate knowledge.
An audience may not be consciously aware of the cinematography techniques being employed – but can feel they have meaning.
Cinematography exists in context and its only purpose is to serve the material at hand.
There are 6 main components related to Cinematography.
As well as being technical, these can be used as part of an aesthetic and creative design, to make your audience ‘feel’ and experience films in a deeper way.
• Camera Placement • Lens Selection • Movement • Composition • Lighting • Colour palette These components are all inter-related and the possibilities are infinite – but all fall within this framework.
This module will explore and explain how to incorporate these components in aesthetic terms, with a view to enhancing your visual work.
This knowledge can then be applied to enhance all your subsequent films.
MP5028 -
Advanced Approaches to Documentary (Core,20 Credits)
Building on skills and knowledge learned at Level 4, you will examine narrative and storytelling in film and TV documentaries.
This will include learning about the history, theory, and practice of existing influential documentaries, developing skills in identifying a strong factual storyline, and then learning how to research, pitch, plan, and produce a short documentary film.
You will also learn how to reflect critically on your own film and those of others.
The module includes sessions on, for example: the key elements of narrative documentary, researching your subject, observational filming techniques, establishing the documentary idea and creating a successful proposal or pitch, building a relationship with your contributor and planning a successful shoot, shooting script development and scheduling a creative documentary – and the blurred line with fiction, critiquing a documentary and writing a reflective commentary, editing for story and truth, and tracking and recording your own insights and learning.
How to work in a team.
MP5029 -
Film Professional Placement (Core,20 Credits)
This module provides a two-fold approach to your professional practice within a real world context.
Classes will focus on developing a wide range of skills and knowledge to equip you for a media career, from setting up as a freelancer, through negotiating and networking skills, to employment rights and idea development.
This contextual section of the module also aims to introduce you to the requirements and considerations facing graduates about to enter the media and creative industries, in order to help you start to bridge the gap between education and post-graduation employment.
During this section you will develop greater awareness and first-hand experience of the industries in which you hope to work as well as hone your professional attitude, etiquette and employability skills.
You will critically consider ethical dilemmas of unpaid work, and barriers to diversity, equality and career sustainability.
Throughout the module, and in the lead-up to it, you will be supported in the search for a work placement or equivalent project in the media industry, which you will carry out and evaluate within the scope of the module.
In addition to the placement, the module also provides an opportunity for you to consider the skills and attributes considered most important by employers (both in the media industries and other sectors) and to set targets to address your skills gaps and boost your employability before you enter your graduation year.
You will learn career development and entrepreneurial skills and will be encouraged to make a career development plan – a route map to give you a focused plan of action through your final year and well into your desired career.
MP5030 -
Hollywood (Core,20 Credits)
This module will allow students to explore key aesthetic, economic, ideological and historical issues in relation to Hollywood cinema.
These include analysing the formation of the studio system and how this led to Hollywood becoming a global, dominant force; how Hollywood representations can be linked to broader ideologies; how aesthetics and representations are influenced by censorship; and how Hollywood has changed historically in relation to social and technological factors.
The focus on these issues throughout the module will lead to a critically-informed understanding of: periodisation (particularly in relation to the ideas of classical and post-classical Hollywood); technical innovations and their impacts (such as the introduction of sound and CGI); the changing nature of stardom and popular film genres; the increasing acceptance of Hollywood as an art form; and the ways in which Hollywood has absorbed international trends and personnel.
MP5031 -
From Script to Screen: Drama production (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about narrative and storytelling in film and television fiction.
This will include learning about the history, theory, and practice of existing fiction films, developing skills in identifying an original storyline, and then learning how to research, pitch, plan, and produce a short drama film.
You will also learn how to reflect critically on your practice and the practices of others.
Indicatively, the module will explore:  key elements of narrative film, genre, writing three dimensional characters, researching your subject, filming techniques, plot and establishing the narrative arc, creating a successful proposal or pitch, casting and planning a successful shoot, script development, working with actors, budget and scheduling, critiquing existing film, writing a reflective commentary, editing for story, and tracking and recording your own insights and learning.
MP5040 -
Genre: Critical and Creative Approaches (Core,20 Credits)
This module builds upon your understanding of the significance of genre within the production, reception and analysis of film and television.
It explores what we understand by the term genre in film and television through an analysis of the codes and conventions of major screen genres.
It examines the practical implications, considerations, and issues of making genre films, including but not limited to questions around budget, story development, set design, costume, special effects, and performance.
You will learn about key developments in genre scholarship, and how critical,  theoretical and creative approaches can be utilised in researching and producing genre film and television.
The module will introduce and problematise major issues and definitions of genre for film and television.
It will consider the function of genre within  mainstream and independent film industries, and will include case studies of specific genres alongside topics such as global film genres, genre in short form,  adapting genre across media, genre and audiences and fandom.
Genre and the film and TV Industries 2.
Genre and Cultural Context 1: Science Fiction and Ideological Readings 3.
Genre and Cultural Context 2: Romantic Comedy and Issues of Gender, Sexuality, and Identityn 4.
National, International, Genre 1: Bollywood 5.
National, International, Transnational Genre 2:  Indigenous Film and TV 6.
Making Genre Films 1: Genre in Short Form 7.
Making Genre 2: Production Contexts (Set Designs/Costumes/Effects), Story Development, 8.
Adapting Genre across Media: Film, TV, Games, 9.
Genre and Audience Research 10.
Genre and Fandom 11.
Genre, Festivals and Curation
AD5001 -
Arts Work Placement Year (Optional,120 Credits)
The Work Placement Year module is a 120 credit year-long module available on degree courses which include a work placement year, taken as an additional year of study at level 5 and before level 6 (the length of the placement(s) will be determined by your programme but it can be no less than 30 weeks).
Specific learning will depend on the nature of the employer and the placement secured.
In general terms, this module is an opportunity to gain significant experience of industry practice, and to learn professional, role-specific skills ‘on the job’.
It’s also a great opportunity to improve transferable skills such as communication, interpersonal skills, personal organisation, time management, presentation, commercial awareness, entrepreneurial skills, branding, and professional conduct generally; and to enhance your CV and personal portfolio.
Students who have carried out placements in previous years often describe it as a transformative experience; they report greatly increased personal confidence both in terms of launching their future careers, and in returning to their final year of study.
Your employer will agree in advance what your learning is likely to include, and will help you reflect on this learning at the end of your placement.
AD5002 -
Arts Study Abroad Year (Optional,120 Credits)
MP6040 -
Experimental Film (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will introduce students to experimental filmmaking and encourage them to explore modes of creativity beyond the mainstream.
It will provide critical overviews of selected experimental filmmakers and movements and encourage students to combine practice and theory through critical evaluation of their own productions.
The module will alternate critical and historical sessions with practical sessions that will encourage students to produce critically informed work that challenges prevailing conventions.
Students will also explore different types of experimentation and interrogate the boundaries between experimental and mainstream film.
MP6041 -
Film Across Media - Transmedia Storytelling (Core,20 Credits)
In a landscape of abundant media platforms and fragmented viewing habits, how can traditional media content be reconfigured to take advantage of the potentials offered by transmedia storytelling?
The 360-degree commissioning process is part of the media production landscape, meaning traditional forms of film and TV routinely extend their range and interact with audiences across multiple platforms, screens and formats.
Although transmedia storytelling plays an important part in film marketing, it also allows filmmakers to expand the core content of their narratives, offering opportunities to create resonant and 'deep' (Rose) media experiences that engages audiences and adds value to the traditional standalone filmic content.
In this module, you will learn how to develop your own transmedia portfolio, as well as critically evaluating the potentials of expanded storytelling via (for example) web and mobile content.
You will learn techniques for expanding the narrative universe of your core film content across wider platforms.
Working from Henry Jenkins’s (2010) idea that the non-repeating spreadability of transmedia entertainment, means that it “is increasingly prominent in our conversations about how media operates in a digital era", in the taught sessions we will critically examine the power of mythmaking, the importance of fan-cultures, and the pleasures of digital archival research, all of which are key to telling stories across media.
MP6042 -
Horror Film Cultures (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will give students the opportunity to explore the history and development of the horror film - perhaps the most consistently popular and stylistically experimental of film genres.
The module will engage with the ways in which horror has been defined not only through its textual qualities (particularly its uses of sound, music, mise en scene, acting styles and special effects) but also through a variety of production and marketing strategies.
The module will therefore enable students to identify and critically explore the film and media cultures through which horror films are made, distributed and understood.
MP6043 -
Practice-based Research Project (Optional,40 Credits)
This module is the capstone project in your degree and enables you to concentrate on an area of film practice that is of great interest to you.
The module invites you to conduct significant practice-based research utilising your creative skills.
Your choice of topic may arise from a specific interest developed through theoretical and/or practical experience on the degree in previous years and/or from extra-curricular or professional contexts.
The module is flexible to your interests, passions and future directions: tutors will work with you to help you develop topics that are exciting and innovative.
Your in-depth research skills will translate into polished final outputs, equipping you with knowledge of contemporary film practice, technological insight and a professional and employable skill set and expertise relevant to further study at MA and PhD level.
MP6044 -
Screen Adaptations (Optional,20 Credits)
In Screen Adaptations you will examine the practical and theoretical debates around the translation of a variety of ‘texts’ into films and television programmes.
Films and programmes under discussion are likely to include examples such as Adaptation, William Shakespeare’s Romeo + Juliet, Sherlock, The Last of Us, The Walking Dead, Band of Brothers, and The Lord of the Rings franchise amongst others
MP6045 -
Transnational Cinemas (Core,20 Credits)
This module will introduce students to transnational cinema with an aim to help them understand creative practices and filmmaking contexts beyond Europe and North America.
It will provide critical overviews of transnational cinema, migration and diaspora, national and anticolonial positionalities in relation to film movements, and production and distribution contexts.
The module will enable students to critically engage not only with films beyond the western mainstream or arthouse cinema but also with how globalisation necessitates transnational collaborations as a survival strategy to counter Hollywood’s dominance in the global market.
Students will also engage with debates and discussion on, for example, Transnational vs Global/World cinema, First/Second/Third Cinema, Imperfect Cinema/Aesthetics of Hunger and film manifestoes from the Global South.
Through critical, historical, and productional sessions along with screenings of films, the module will enable students to produce critically informed work that challenges prevailing understanding about cinema furthering the goal of decolonising the film curriculum.
MP6050 -
Event Cultures (Optional,20 Credits)
Following a case study approach, you will investigate the idea of event cultures in historical, conceptual and organisational terms.
The module will explore how particular events (e.g.
media festivals and award ceremonies) are developed, structured and organised.
The aim is to consider how we, as scholars of film, media and culture, might conceptualise events and in so doing gain a clearer understanding of their dynamics, practices and their impact upon industry and society.
In this way, the module will illustrate the key ways in which specific events have been framed in scholarship and how these ideas might begin to be applied in the real world.
As such, the module encourages you to develop a critical response to filmic events and, in so doing, reflect upon their broader historical, cultural and socio-political significance.
The lectures will introduce key concepts that will be explored in the seminars.
The main part of each seminar will focus upon group tasks and discussion of the theme, specific event or set texts.
Seminar discussions are also intended to develop your communication skills and your ability to develop and respond to ideas in a collaborative environment.
You are expected to prepare for the sessions by studying the set text(s) for each week, and also by carrying out additional recommended reading/viewing (which will be indicated in the module guide and on the e–Learning Portal).
MP6051 -
Dissertation (Media & Film) (Optional,40 Credits)
This module involves researching and writing an 8,000-10,000 word dissertation on a topic of your own choosing.
The module offers you the opportunity to engage with a contemporary topic and a set of case studies that you are personally invested in.
The learning materials for this module will guide you through the fundamental requirements of preparing and researching a dissertation.
Our supervisory team will also share their research experiences and tips on overcoming research problems.
You will also be assigned to a supervisor who will offer guidance on how to shape your particular idea into a sustained argument.
As the culmination of your degree programme, the dissertation allows you demonstrate your individual engagement with your subject area, and to display the critical skills that you have developed while studying within the Media & Film subject group.
MP6052 -
Media, Gender and Sexualities (Optional,20 Credits)
Through critical and theoretical study of gender, sex and sexualities across a wide range of media this module untangles the relationships of community, entertainment, identity, pleasure and media technologies.
It explores key theoretical approaches to gender and sexuality and engages with the heated social, cultural and political debates over how gender, sex and sexuality ‘should be’ represented.
We examine framings of masculinity and femininity, and explore gender beyond the binary, building on both developments in queer and transgender studies, as well as on the long history of different understandings of gender in cultures around the world.
This module thus takes a broad and transnational approach to questions of gender, sexuality, media and human rights, and works to decolonise understandings of these concepts.
Similarly, questions of sex and sexuality – recognised as more than effects or questions of biology – will be interrogated.
Exploring ideas about, and attitudes to, gender and sexuality and the role(s) that media of various kinds have played in making meanings about intimate life students will examine contemporary media texts and the conceptual framings of ‘the sexualisation of culture’, alongside social media practices and experiences in order to investigate identity politics, sexual subcultures and theories of mediated representations and practices.
Our analyses will trace the ways dominant discourses of sexuality from the past jostle for position in contemporary media particularly about gendered and 'normal' vs 'transgressive' sexualities.
Gendered relations within media industries themselves are also explored.
As we engage with the ways people have moved beyond ‘simple’ consumption of media, to become producers of their own representations via social media platforms, digital technologies and other media artefacts we also explore the possibilities for subverting traditional understandings of what it means to gendered and/or sexed in the 21st Century.
YA6001 -

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-film-uusfli1:
UCAS Code P315
Find out more about what you will be studying on your course.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/foundation-year-film-media-theatre-and-performance-uusfmp1:
Would you like to develop the practical, intellectual
and creative skills required to become critical and reflective arts
practitioner?
Acting as a gateway to degree-level study, the Film, Media,
Theatre and Performance Foundation Year course allows you to study a broad
range of creative arts disciplines across all aspects of film, media and
theatre.
You will work practically and intellectually to acquire key
transferable skills such as effective communication, teamwork, time and project
management, research and digital literacy, all of which can prove vital to
achieving at university and gaining employment after graduation.
But more than this, you will learn from leading academics to
develop the practical and theoretical grounding needed to become a future
cultural industries leader, with particular focus on Film, Media and
Performance.
The degree is dynamic, interdisciplinary, and addresses real world
challenges, ensuring you will have the best possible foundation for future
study and continued success.
Research Powerhouse : Art and Design at Northumbria is ranked 4th in the
UK for research power (REF, 2021).
Experts in the Field : You will be taught by a team of world-leading
artists and academics who will equip you with the skills needed to successfully
take your learning to the next level.
Industry Connections : Northumbria recently teamed up with the British Film Institute to provide live-brief and projects for students.
We also have
connections with performance venues, such as Northern Stage and Alphabetti Theatre .
Upon successful completion of the foundation year, you will
be able to progress into any of the following undergraduate programmes.
BA (Hons) Media and Communication
BA (Hons) Film
BA (Hons) Theatre and Performance
UCAS Code P325
This Film, Media, Theatre and Performance Foundation Year offers a wide range of learning opportunities in challenging, stimulating and dynamic studio learning environments.
Taking place over two semesters, the course modules cover fundamental skills needed in performance practice, communication, film practice, project planning and management, media theory, and cultural studies.
Teaching is delivered through a mix of studio and workshop activity, lectures, seminars and the practical use of technology and equipment.
This course is assessed through a range of methods including practice-based submissions, essays and presentations.
You will also complete an assessed portfolio that can include various features such as performance, short films, artwork and live practice.
Culture and Society
Film Foundations
Media Genres
Performance Practices
You will learn from award winning filmmakers, performers, media specialists and well-published lecturers who have established a high quality, research-led approach to teaching, combined with first class support.
The academic team includes practising researchers and leaders in their field, many of whom are actively involved, through their research, with real issues that face the community.
The teaching team will further support your personal development, practice-based skills, intellectual growth and transferable skills such as effective communication, teamwork, time and project management, research and digital literacy; all of which are essential in the 21st century workplace.
You will work in our dedicated art, performance and media spaces featuring state-of-the-art facilities.
Our learning environment includes specialist areas for performance, sound technology, film production, print, dark room photography, and radio broadcasting.
Our onsite theatres and studios are kitted out with high quality technology where you can test your ideas and host your own events, performances, exhibitions, and workshops.
Technology enhanced learning is embedded throughout this course and materials such as module handbooks, assessment information, lecture presentation slides and reading lists will be available via our innovative e-learning platform, Blackboard.
All the teaching on this Foundation Year is underpinned by research.
By using a range of theoretical and practical approaches across the programme, you will be fully equipped to identify problems within the field of Film, Media and Performance.
You will also have the opportunity to work collaboratively to find solutions to those real-world challenges and respond to contemporary ideas.
At the end of this course, you will have developed your own knowledge and critical evaluation skills, allowing you to understand the most effective ways to gather information related to your upcoming undergraduate degree.
This course has been specifically designed to develop your skills and prepare you for one of our exciting undergraduate degrees in Film and Television, Media and Communications, or Theatre and Performance.
You will focus on subject-specific modules that will ensure optimal preparation for your upcoming course.
When you begin your chosen undergraduate degree, the skills acquired on this Foundation Year course should assist in your understanding of your chosen subject.
Your newly developed research skills will also prove invaluable for assignments and projects, and your budding portfolio will have chance to grow and develop further.
Completion of your subsequent undergraduate degree will help to prepare you for future employment or the progression to further education or Master’s level courses.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-finance-and-investment-management-extended-degree-uusxvg1:
Our CISI-recognised BSc (Hons) Finance and Investment Management course lays the foundations for a range of rewarding careers in this fascinating industry.
The core focus of our teaching is about preparing you for employment.
Key modules include Careers in Accounting, Economics and Finance, and Professional Practice – all designed to build practical knowledge of working in the industry.
And you won’t just be learning about investing in the classroom.
You’ll also be putting your skills into practice in our on-site trading room, complete with industry-standard professional Bloomberg terminals that reflect live, real-life market developments.
Before your final year, you can choose to deepen your understanding even further through a year-long work placement – gaining valuable hands on experience within financial organisations including the Royal Bank of Scotland or the Bank of England.
Recent graduates are now working for some of the biggest names in the industry, including Bloomberg, Deloitte and Brewin Dolphin.
The BSc Finance and Investment Management programme has got an educational partnership with the Chartered Institute of Securities and Investment (CISI).
This offers students an opportunity to apply for discounted CISI membership and discounted exam fees and materials.
The programme's curriculum is mapped to two CISI exams - Introduction to Securities and Investments and Risk in Financial Services.
This course is covered by the prestigious Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) accreditation for Newcastle Business School.
See other similar courses you may be interested in: Accounting Bsc (Hons) , Marketing BA , Economics and Finance BSc , Economics BSc
UCAS Code Z037
You’ll learn through a combination of lectures, seminars and workshops.
The emphasis is on deepening your understanding of the intricacies of the financial world, considering the needs of each organisation and the different types of financial instruments available before moving on to the essential elements in risk management – credit and market risk, interest rate, liquidity and operational risk.
Following an introduction to key finance theories and principles, a full range of modules covers the financial investment landscape from business and financial analysis and risk, through to investment management, decision making, personal finance and more.
Alongside our teaching, you’ll benefit from a well-designed support system, to help you develop the academic study skills you need.
If you’re a non-UK student, you can choose optional sessions to help you develop both your academic language and study skills.
As well as assignments, portfolios and presentations, you’ll also complete an extended piece of work such as a dissertation, management enquiry or consultancy report.
And when it comes to assessing your learning, we know that every student has different needs, strengths and topics they’re passionate about – which means your work will always be considered on an individual basis.
Newcastle Business School has a global reputation for delivering some of the UK’s best business management education.
We’re part of an elite group of business schools worldwide with double accreditation from the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) in business and accounting.
Many of our staff are current or former working professionals from the banking, finance and accounting industries – including qualified management and financial accountants.
Lecture capture software means you can review previous lectures online in your time, as well as at your speed.
On the School’s ground floor, you’ll find our innovative Bloomberg Trading Room.
It’s where you can put your financial and analytical skills to the test in a simulated trading environment using fully equipped Bloomberg terminals.
Find out about our Business Clinic here.
With us, your learning will be influenced and inspired by our teaching team’s active research into their specialist subjects.
These include equity financing, systemic risk and consumer credit.
All modules reflect a research-rich approach that will help you become a more critical, reflective and independent thinker.
You’ll become skilled in formulating questions, critiquing different interpretations – and developing well-founded arguments.
In the final year of the course, you’ll undertake a significant investigation either as a dissertation or consultancy project.
A number of the course’s modules have been specifically developed to meet the academic criteria of the Chartered Institute for Securities and Investment (CISI) – making it easier for you to take their exams after graduation.
Our Careers and Employment Service are there to help kick-start your next steps through workshops, one-to-one advice and networking opportunities.
Once you complete your studies, you’ll be ready to pursue career paths across the financial sector – from financial services and banking, to advisory work in finance and insurance both in the UK and around the world.
Examples of recent graduate progression from this course include the graduate management trainee scheme at Lloyds Banking Group, an internship at KPMG and banking supervision at the Bank of Russia.
Should you wish to push your knowledge even further, the course also prepares you for postgraduate study – for example, on our MSc in International Finance and Investment , Finance MSc .
Whatever you decide to do, you’ll have strong employability as a Northumbria graduate as every module of Northumbria Business School courses reinforces what you need to succeed.
AF4036 -
Principles and Theories of Finance (Core,20 Credits)
This module provides you with an introduction to underpinning financial concepts upon which your degree will be based.
You will learn about the financial system; interest rate theory; foreign exchange rate dynamics and the operation of the money, fixed income and equity markets.
You will be introduced to a range of financial instruments including collective investments and socially responsible investments.
You will learn about the concepts of utility, stock market efficiency, portfolio theory and the capital asset pricing model (CAPM).
To apply the knowledge acquired in this module you will use real-time financial data extracted from leading financial software located in the NBS Trading Room.
You will be required to use real-world data to enhance your skills in Microsoft Excel which are essential for both placement and graduate employability.
AF4037 -
Business and Financial Analysis (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn practical methods of analysing and comparing businesses and effectively interpret their financial results, in doing so you will be introduced to critical thinking skills.
The module introduces you to the skills and techniques required to analyse and interpret financial statements and related information.
This provides a framework within which you will be introduced to the concepts used in business valuations.
You will be encouraged to consider the limitations of business and financial statement analysis as applied in different decision contexts, such as investment and lending decisions.
AF5038 -
Derivatives and Risk (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will be introduced to complex financial instruments, derivatives.
You will learn about the features of derivatives, the risks they are often designed to manage or speculate upon and the ways that money flows ‘through’ the transactions they create.
You will learn how to calculate profits and losses resulting from transactions involving derivatives.
The module specifically introduces you to Futures, Forwards, Options, and Swaps, as well as examples of exotic derivative types (such as carbon derivatives).
In respect of each type of derivative, you will learn trading strategies specific to each, across three distinct approaches (hedging, arbitraging, speculating).
You will study the factors that determine the performance of these trading strategies and how derivatives transform financial and non-financial risks.
You will also learn how to apply various valuation techniques to derivatives.
You will learn about these instruments and contextualise your knowledge using practical tasks and real-time data extracted from financial trading software.
AF6036 -
Risk in Financial Institutions I (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about the capital risks faced by financial institutions.
These include credit risk, risks from securitisation exposure, market risk and liquidity risk.
You will study the specific areas of credit, market and liquidity risk in the context of the relevant regulatory framework (The Basel Accords) and draw on case study material provided by high profile banks and financial institutions.
You will be expected to develop an understanding of the nature of these interlinked risks as well as to understand how they are measured and managed in line with regulations.
The module will cover topics such as: •	A typology of risk in banking and financial institutions: definitions; types; and importance.
•	International banking regulation and capital adequacy.
•	Credit, market and liquidity risk regulatory framework under the Basel Accords.
•	Credit Risk: Consumer/commercial credit risk and credit decision making; Measuring credit risk through credit scoring models and modern advanced techniques; counterparty credit risk using examples of the loan and derivative networks, including how to calculate counterparty credit risk via the credit valuation adjustment.
•	Market Risk: Measuring market risk through Value-at-Risk models (variance-covariance, historical simulation and Monte-Carlo simulation models); the move toward expected shortfall; other contemporary regulatory models.
•	Liquidity Risk: Market and balance sheet sources; measurement techniques; stored vs purchase management styles.
AF6037 -
Risk in Financial Insitutions II (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will focus on the specific area of treasury risk arising from interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk.
You will also explore the ever-changing world of operational risk within financial institutions.
You will investigate how the risks faced by financial institutions are linked via systemic risk and learn which institutions may be more susceptible to shocks.
You will also learn how to measure and manage aspects of these banking risks with the help of case studies set within banking and finance institutions.
Further, a key aspect of the module is to determine why an effective fraud risk assessment framework is essential to financial institutions to avoid financial Loss and reputational damage.
Prominent real-life financial disasters will be examined to demonstrate how these issues can impact upon banking and financial institutions.
The module will cover topics such as: •	Interest rate risk: the level and movement of interest rates; term structure theory; sources of interest rate risk to the banking book; measurement models (repricing gap, maturity and duration models); asset and liability management; Regulatory requirements.
•	The impact of foreign exchange rate on financial institutions.
•	Operational risk: sources; measurement models; operational risk management policies and procedure; regulatory implications.
•	How to develop a Fraud risk assessment and execute it within the global and digital banking environment.
•	The concept of systemic risk within the financial system and the macroprudential regulations developed to mitigate such a risk.
AF6038 -
Investment Management (Core,20 Credits)
This module aims to provide you with the knowledge and skills to apply a variety of quantitative and financial tools to construct, rebalance and evaluate a portfolio consisting of financial assets, mainly equities (including collective investments including SRI funds).
The module is organised within the themes of rational and behavioural decision making in relation to investments.
You will learn the about the psychological influences on decision making as well as the principles of market efficiency in the context of investment in real world financial assets.
You will be exposed to a wide range of techniques for use in rebalancing, comparing, analysing and evaluating portfolios made up of financial assets.
Furthermore, you will gain a practical understanding of various aspects of asset allocation, portfolio management strategies and important behavioural issues affecting portfolio choice.
Outline syllabus: • Investment Process and Asset Allocation • Portfolio Theory and Diversification • CAPM and other asset pricing models • Efficient Market Hypothesis • Equity Valuation • Portfolio Evaluation • Behavioural Finance • Irrationality Biases, Bubbles and Herd behaviour

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/finance-and-investment-management-bsc-hons-uusfvg1:
UCAS Code N395
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Finance.
Optional overseas field trip £1350 approximately.
CISI registration fee £60 approx (optional membership of professional body).
CISI exams at end of years 2 and 3 (2 exams in total).
Cost includes workbooks and exams approx.£250

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-finance-dtffce6:
We have developed the programme in response to market demand for graduates who have strong financial awareness to function as effective managers, across a range of multinational organisations.
The course is regularly refreshed to keep pace with advances in the financial sector.
It is aligned with the syllabus of the CFA Institute .* Current study themes include investment and risk management, sustainable strategic decision making, financial econometrics and forecasting, international financial markets and corporate financial management.
*Please note, this course does not provide exemption from CFA certification.
Research Powerhouse: Learn with the best minds - 9th in the UK for research power (REF 2021).
Accredited Course: Newcastle Business School is accredited by the prestigious
Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB).
Facilities include a trading suite equipped with Bloomberg Terminals, which are used by financial traders and investment banks globally.
The suite provides you with access to the live financial and economic data, portfolio construction and optimisation tools, information and analytics to support your studies.
The facility is also equipped with state-or-art econometric packages such E-views 10.0 which is used on Financial Econometrics and Forecasting module to estimate and interpret various econometric models for the purpose of designing trading strategies.
You will also undertake a number of professional development modules to give you a competitive advantage in the jobs market, in terms of self-development and leadership.
Watch Programme Leader Dr.
Pankaj Chandorkar give an introduction to the Finance Masters in a Minute (or so), and discover more about our business clinic.
AACSB Accreditation
You will be part of a global cohort of dedicated students.
You will benefit from the experience of staff who have taught research-informed and cutting-edge topics to international students for many years, in a positive multicultural learning environment.
From the outset you will apply academic knowledge to real life business issues via tutorial-based activities, case discussion and group-work sessions.
This includes a residential day for the leadership and
team-building event, which is in the first semester, which is aimed at strengthening skills in self-reflection, independent learning and critical thinking.
You will be assessed through a combination of personal development planning, group and peer assessments, constructing and managing financial portfolios and reflective reports as well as traditional exams and essays.
This will help you to become an independent, reflective and critical thinker who is culturally and ethically aware, with strong leadership and financial management capabilities.
The academic team have extensive experience in both research and industry, with specialisms including investment, risk and derivatives, professional banking, credit analyst and consortium finance.
We incorporate our professional experience and ongoing research into the syllabus, to ensure you are up-to-date with current developments in a fast changing subject field.
Here are just a few of the world-leading academics who will be sharing their knowledge with you on this course.
Click through to 'All staff profiles' to explore the full list.
Dr Pankaj A Chandorkar
Karim Sorour
Dr Rajesh Tharyan
As a finance student you will have access to the cutting-edge trading room which features the Bloomberg Terminals that are used by top traders throughout the world.
This hands-on experience gives you access to real-time data as well as historical financial news and information.
We are one of only a handful of universities with this facility.
Technology is woven into the course via statistical and econometric packages such as E-Views, SPSS, and Stata along with live Bloomberg terminals providing live economic and financial data, to increase your skill set and enhance the experiential learning elements of the course.
Take a virtual tour →
The course draws heavily on the high-impact research of staff and modules are informed by their own findings as well as from the wider field of research.
That the skills and knowledge you will gain will help you to achieve aspirations within the field of quantitative finance, portfolio management, and financial analysts.
The personal development skills acquired in modules such as Leadership
and Management Development will also help you to stand out.
This module includes a residential weekend to build your understanding of individual and group behaviour.
To further improve your practical skills you have opportunity to choose a Master’s
Consultancy project in place of the dissertation.
This involves working on behalf of an external organisation that is looking for answers to a current business problem or question.
You will work in a small group – participating in group and individual activities to identify solutions – giving you valuable experiences to boost your CV.
Our graduates have moved into a range of careers in the financial sector and beyond, including:
•	Analyst at a stock broker
•	Investment and security departments of large commercial and investment banks
•	Trainee manager within the treasury of an international company
•	Recruitment consultant specialising in finance personnel
•	University lecturer
Find out how we can support you
It is recommended that your previous studies include quantitative elements.
AF7004 -
Financial Econometrics and Forecasting I (Core,20 Credits)
This module will provide you the knowledge and skills of empirical finance that are important in the field of banking, finance and investment.
The module will deliver you the knowledge of econometrics that is required to understand and analyse the real world financial data.
You will learn about classical econometric models such as linear regression involving Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) method, time series regressions, hypothesis testing.
Furthermore, you will be introduced to forecasting methods and their applications.
You will also learn panel data analysis.
The content of the module that you will study comprises four key blocks, which are listed below.
Block 1 - Properties of financial data, Classical Linear Regression Methods, Time series models and Hypothesis testing Block 2 – Introduction to forecasting methods in Finance and their applications such as forecasting stock market returns and trading strategies.
Block 3 – Application of Classical Linear Regression models Block 4 – Panel Data Analysis
AF7014 -
Research Methods and Analytics for Business Practice (Core,0 Credits)
AF7027 -
Contemporary issues in Sustainability (Core,20 Credits)
Corporate governance offers the foundation for establishing transparency and accountability within organisations as well as support their strategic success.
It plays a pivotal role in shaping the relationship between the organisation and its shareholders, other stakeholders, and the society at large.
This module will explore various internal and external mechanisms of corporate governance that supports the organisation as a responsible member of the society and how this relates to the concepts of social responsibility, sustainability and business ethics.
The module will also establish the links between responsible business practices and wider sustainable development initiatives such as the UN sustainable development Goals (SDGs).
The module will then consider the dynamic and complex landscape of sustainable finance which includes a myriad of players including security issuers, regulators, standard setters, rating agencies to investment companies.
The module will introduce various sustainable and green investment vehicles.
The module will consider green washing/impact washing, individual and collective actions among other contemporary issues in this area.
Finally, the module will consider some of the technological innovations in the area of sustainable finance including innovations in banking and payment systems, applications of blockchain technology including digital assets and big data analytics including the use of AI.
A key feature of the module are the workshops that will enable you to acquire data analysis skills using specialist software.
The module will also develop your curiosity and interest of ethical decision making in business, and to help you understand what ethics means from both an individual and organisational perspective.
The module will enable you to develop an awareness of ethical dilemmas in business and challenge you to discuss and debate ethical decision-making as a future employer or employee Topics 1	Responsible business and Sustainable development 2	   Corporate governance and accountability 3	The use of ethical frameworks to aid the decision-making process 4	Sustainable finance landscape and issues 5	Fintech innovations in sustainability 6	Ethics and professionalism
MN0490 -
Sustainable Strategic Decisions (Core,20 Credits)
The module aims to provide you with the knowledge and skills pertinent to responsible financial decision making practices.
In doing so, this module will equip you with both theoretical and practical knowledge regarding corporate governance, social responsibility and sustainable strategic decision making in finance.
Within the module, you will cover the following five main topics: •	The role of finance, operations and marketing functions in strategic decision making •	Financial evaluation of sustainable investment projects •	Corporate governance, accountability and disclosure •	Socially  responsible investment •	Corporate social and environmental reporting The module will lead you to the development of critical evaluation of strategic decisions in finance and how they are affected by the governance, sustainability and ethical aspects of the business within an international context.
You will become aware of how responsible decision-making can contribute towards meeting sustainable strategic objectives for companies operating in competitive global business environment.
On completing the module you will be able to apply knowledge of responsible and ethical behaviour to corporate financial decision making and critically appreciate the relevant factors influencing sustainable strategic decisions whilst being able to analyse corporate performance using corporate governance and ethical screening techniques.
MN0493 -
Investments and Risk Management (Core,20 Credits)
In the module, you will learn the knowledge and skills that are important to understand and analyse the performance of portfolio composed of stocks and fixed-income securities.
Additionally, you will develop a critical understanding of derivative instruments (options, forward and futures) and about market risk measurement technique (VaR).
The module thus provides detail theoretical background where you will also learn the application side of investments in financial assets and portfolio management.
The content of the module that you will study comprises six key parts which are listed below.
Risk Management (VaR) Derivatives (Options, Forward and Futures Contracts) Investment Process, Asset Allocation and Developments in Investment Theory Valuation Principles and Practices Fixed Income Securities Evaluation of Portfolio Performance

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/finance-msc-with-advanced-practice-dtsfcn6:
We have developed the programme in response to market demand for graduates with strong financial awareness plus the essential skills to function as effective managers, both within the financial sector and across a range of multinational organisations.
The course is regularly refreshed to keep pace with advances in the financial sector, and is aligned with the syllabus of the CFA Institute.* Current study themes include financial econometrics and forecasting, investment and risk management, sustainable strategic decision making, corporate financial management and international financial markets.
Accredited Course: Newcastle Business School is accredited by the prestigious Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB).
Read more about our 'double' AACSB Accreditation.
In the second
year, you will have an opportunity to undertake an Consultancy Project allowing you to apply the knowledge and skills you have
gained during your first year of study to a real-life industry issue from a
range of employers.
This authentic learning context ensures that you experience
what it feels like to work within a team on a contemporary project that has
real relevance and impact.
Working to a client's brief, with academic
supervision, you will advance your ability to apply theoretical concepts and
research skills to produce a practical recommendation to a challenging
problem.*
This flexible MSc takes an applied approach to learning.
You will learn
six taught modules in investment, econometrics and finance in Year 1.
In the
Semester 1 of Year 2, you will do Business Clinic PG Group consultancy project
working on a business problem faced by a real organisation.
In Semester 2 of
Year 2 you will choose between Master’s Dissertation or Master’s Management Enquiry
or Applied Management Work Investigation.
The choice of Applied Management Work
Investigation is subject to achieving at least 80% in Business Clinic PG Group
consultancy project.
This includes a residential weekend, in the first semester, which is aimed at strengthening skills in self-reflection, independent learning and critical thinking.
The personal development skills acquired in modules such as Leadership and Management Development will also help you to stand out.
To further improve your practical skills you have opportunity to undertake a project in place of the dissertation.
A
Masters course that takes two years, instead of just one, will carry particular
weight with employers.
They’ll understand that you’ll have a deeper
understanding of topics as well as more experience through
consultancy project.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-financial-mathematics-uusfcm1:
G102
Please
note: the first year of entry for this
course is September 2026.
This course equips you with a solid foundation in both mathematics and finance, blending theory and practical skills, with the option of a placement year for hands-on experience.
From the start, you’ll dive into the world of financial decision-making, using mathematical tools to tackle complex challenges.
Whether you're deciphering market trends or optimising investment strategies, you'll build sharp analytical and problem-solving skills.
As you progress, you will have the opportunity to apply advanced methods to real-world financial problems and examine topics such as investment strategies and risk management in financial institutions.
The final-year project lets you investigate a financial mathematics topic in depth, building your research and technical skills.
Throughout your course, industry-relevant software and tools are available, including AI, to prepare for a range of careers or further study.
You will be encouraged to build a diverse skill set - from analytical thinking to AI and computing – providing a strong launchpad for a wide variety of career paths.
Applicants will need Grade B in an A-level Mathematics, or a recognised equivalent.
KC4009 -
Calculus (Core,20 Credits)
The module is designed to introduce you to the principles, techniques, and applications of Calculus.
The fundamentals of differentiation and integration are extended to include differential equations and multivariable calculus.
On this module you will learn: •	Differentiation: derivative as slope and its relation to limits; standard derivatives; product, quotient, and chain rules; implicit, parametric, and logarithmic differentiation; maxima / minima, curve sketching; Taylor and Maclaurin series; L’Hopital’s rule.
•	Integration: standard integrals, definite integrals, area under a curve; integration using substitutions, partial fractions decomposition and integration by parts; calculation of solid volumes.
•	Functions of several variables: partial differentiation and gradients; change of coordinate systems; stationary points, maxima / minima / saddle points of functions of two variables; method of Lagrange multipliers (constrained maxima / minima).
•	Double integrals: standard integrals, change of order of integration.
•	Ordinary differential equations: First-order differential equations solved by direct integration, separation of variables, and integrating factor.
Second-order differential equations with constant coefficients solved by the method of undetermined coefficients.
KC4012 -
Computational Mathematics (Core,20 Credits)
Mathematics students require knowledge of a range of computational tools to complement their mathematical skills.
You will be using MATLAB, an interactive programming environment that uses high-level language to solve mathematics and visualise data.
In addition, you will be investigating the development of algorithms through a selection of mathematical problems.
Elements of the MATLAB language will be integrated throughout with various methods and techniques from numerical mathematics such as interpolation, numerical solution of differential equations, numerical solution of non-linear equations and numerical integration.
The computer skills you will become conversant with include programming concepts such as the use of variables, assignments, expressions, script files, functions, conditionals, loops, input and output.
You will be applying MATLAB to solve mathematical problems and display results appropriately.
The range of numerical techniques that will be covered will include a selection from the following topics: • Solution of non-linear equations by bisection, fixed-point iteration and Newton-Raphson methods.
• Interpolation using linear, least squares and Lagrange polynomial methods.
• Numerical differentiation.
• Numerical integration using trapezoidal and Simpson quadrature formulae.
• Numerical solution of Ordinary Differential Equations using Euler and Taylor methods for first-order initial value problems.
• Numerical solution of systems of linear equations using elementary methods.
KC4020 -
Probability and Statistics (Core,20 Credits)
This module is designed to introduce you to the important areas of probability and statistics.
In this module, you will learn about data collection methods, probability theory and random variables, hypothesis testing and simple linear regression.
Real-life examples will be used to demonstrate the applications of these statistical techniques.
You will learn how to use R to analyse data in various practical applications.
Outline Syllabus Data collection: questionnaire design, methods of sampling - simple random, stratified, quota, cluster and systematic.
Sampling and non-sampling errors.
Random number generation using tables or calculator.
Population and sample, types of data, data collection, frequency distributions, statistical charts and graphs, summary measures, analysis of data using R.
Probability: sample space, types of events, definition of probability, addition and multiplication laws, conditional probability.
Discrete probability distributions including Binomial, Poisson.
Continuous probability distributions including the Normal.
Central Limit Theorem.
Mean and variance of linear combination of random variables.
Use of Statistics tables.
Hypothesis tests on one sample mean and variance, confidence intervals using the normal and Student t distributions.
Correlation and simple linear regression.
KL4001 -
Real Analysis (Core,20 Credits)
The module is designed to i) introduce you to the notion of convergence as this applies to sequences, series and functions of one variable; ii) to provide a firm basis for future modules in which the idea of convergence is used; iii) to help you recognize the necessity and power of rigorous argument.
Outline Syllabus: 1) Introduction to propositional logic and sets.
2) Real numbers: equations, inequalities, modulus, bounded sets, maximum, minimum, supremum and infimum.
3) Sequences: convergence, boundedness, limit theorems; standard sequences and rate of convergence, monotone sequences, Cauchy sequences.
4) Series: standard series (geometric, harmonic series, alternating harmonic series, etc ); absolute and conditional convergence; convergence tests.
5) Power Series.
6) Functions: continuity, the intermediate value theorem, the extreme value theorem.
7) Differentiability: basic differentiability theorems, differentiability and continuity, Rolle’s theorem, Lagrange theorem, Taylor’s theorem.
8) Riemann’s Integrability: properties of integrable functions, modulus and integrals, The fundamental theorem of Calculus.
KC5000 -
Further Computational Mathematics (Core,20 Credits)
This module continues the numerical methods and computational mathematics thread established with KC4012: Computational Mathematics.
The module aims to present an introduction to advanced numerical mathematics, in particular multivariable problems, and associated transferable skills.
Numerical methods are applied to the solution of several classes of problems, such as: systems of linear and nonlinear equations, eigensystems, optimisation, ordinary and partial differential equations.
Theoretical aspects are illustrated and discussed at the lectures, and computational implementation developed at the computer-lab workshops, using appropriate software (e.g.
MATLAB).
Topics may include (note this is indicative rather than prescriptive): 1.
Vector and matrix spaces: normed spaces; vector norms; matrix norms; compatible norms; spectral radius; condition number.
Systems of linear equations: direct and iterative methods.
Matrix eigensystems: iterative methods for eigenvalues and eigenvectors.
Systems of nonlinear equations: multidimensional Newton method; fixed-point iterations method.
Numerical optimization: pattern search methods; descent methods.
Ordinary differential equations (ODEs): forward and backward Euler methods; Crank-Nicolson method; convergence, consistency and stability of a method; conditional stability; simple adaptive-step methods; Runge-Kutta methods; predictor-corrector methods; Heun method; systems of ODEs; stiff problems.
7.
Numerical approximation of initial, boundary value problems (IBVP) for ordinary and partial differential equations (PDEs): finite difference method for the (Dirichlet) IBVP for the one- and two-dimensional Poisson equations; finite difference method for the (Dirichlet) IBVP for the one-dimensional heat equation; finite-difference method for the (Dirichlet) IBVP for the one-dimensional wave equation.
KC5008 -
Ordinary & Partial Differential Equations (Core,20 Credits)
The module is designed to introduce you to a first mathematical treatment of ordinary and partial differential equations.
You will learn fundamental techniques for solving first- and second-order equations as well as approximation methods.
These are used to explore the question of the existence of solutions and provide a qualitative behaviour of the solutions.
Examples are drawn from applications to physics, engineering, biology, economics and finance and modelling of complex systems.
The module will cover topics such as: Ordinary Differential Equations (ODEs) 1.
First-order ODEs: Classification of ODEs, separable, Bernoulli, Riccati and exact equations as well as integrating factors.
Picard iterations and existence of solutions.
Second-order ODEs: Solutions of linear equations, independence of solutions, linear stability, initial and boundary value problems, series solutions about ordinary and singular points, special functions Partial Differential Equations (PDEs) 1.
Introduction and classification of PDEs.
Method of characteristics for first order linear PDEs.
The method of separation of variables and Fourier series.
Solutions of Laplace, diffusion/heat and wave equations.
Applications
KL5005 -
Statistical Modelling and Data Visualisation (Core,20 Credits)
This module will provide you with the fundamental tools to identify appropriate exploratory analysis techniques to uncover hidden patterns and unknown correlations in large data sets.
You will be able to assess the strength of statistical evidence of the revealed patterns/correlations.
You will also develop appropriate technique to visualise data/outputs, implement suitable analytical methods for big data and critically assess the suitability of the chosen analytical technique.
You will have the opportunity to analyse and visualise data for tackling real-life problems.
You will work individually and in group and have the opportunity to critically appraise both your own work and the work of others.
The module will include topics such as: ?
Exploratory analysis of big data; ?
Data visualisation; ?
Data manipulation (e.g.
dealing with missing values, detecting outliers values, data transformation); ?
Univariate statistical methods (e.g.
simple linear regression, residual analysis); ?
Techniques for predictive data mining (e.g.
methods for binary/logistic classification); ?
A suite of appropriate computer packages (including R) will be used.
KL6000 -
Data Science (Core,20 Credits)
Data Science concerns extracting information from data – in other words giving a voice to the data.
Different analysts may have different purposes when analysing data – the intention may be to describe the information in the data, explain the relationships between parts of the data or use a subset of the data to predict the outcome of a variable of interest.
For example, that variable could be whether a customer with a particular profile may buy an item of interest.
Most companies collect data on their customers and are interested in how this data can be used to improve customer experience as well as profits.
Depending on the intention, the approach taken by the analyst will differ and this module will cover the main tools for classification, clustering, association mining and outlier detection allowing you to analyse data with confidence.
By the end of the module, you should have developed an awareness of different approaches to analysing various forms of data and should have an ability to appraise which analytical techniques are appropriate.
You will be able to perform the analysis and interpret the results correctly.
Outline Syllabus Classification techniques that may include decision trees, support vector machines, linear discriminant techniques and logistic regression.
Clustering techniques including k-means clustering, apriori association mining, naïve Bayes and dimensionality reduction.
KL6004 -
Project in Financial Mathematics (Core,40 Credits)
Career-Focused with Real-World Experience: Taught by research-active, world-renowned experts.
Gain hands-on experience with industry-standard financial software and numerical computing.
State-of-the-Art Facilities: Benefit from modern facilities, including a Bloomberg Trading Room, a dedicated Maths Hub, and advanced computer labs.
Supportive Environment: Access networking opportunities with finance professionals, and the option to sit for CISI professional exams, enhancing career prospects in finance and banking.
Throughout the course there is a focus on developing your employability through transferable skills in problem-solving, critical thinking, and data analysis.
You’ll embark on modules that reflect real-world financial practices and gain industry insights.
You can choose to
undertake a study abroad or work placement year to gain practical experience.
For your final year project you work on real data, bridging mathematics and finance.
Graduates from this course can pursue a wide range of careers in both the financial sector and beyond, including roles in quantitative analysis, risk management, data science, trading, financial consulting, fintech development, and more.
Academic staff teach this course, with a blend of research expertise and industry experience.
From your Personal Tutor to Module Leaders and Dissertation Supervisors, you’ll have expert guidance throughout.
While we’ll help you grow into an independent and confident professional, you’ll also be part of a community that encourages teamwork, shared problem-solving, and mutual growth, preparing you not only to work independently, but to thrive in professional, team-based environments.
Faculty members actively engage in research and consultancy, ensuring your learning aligns with industry standards.
Dr Thibault Congy
Dr Benoit Huard
Maryam Garba
Dr Savva Shanaev
Dr Scott Ellis
You'll learn in a research-informed environment, where you can gradually build your understanding of the advanced mathematical and statistical methods used to model complex financial systems and manage risk.
As you progress, you will be able to strengthen your critical thinking and academic rigour, with plenty of opportunities to practice on analytical and computational techniques central to financial mathematics.
In your final-year project, you will be encouraged to demonstrate independent research skills by tackling a real-world financial problem using mathematical modelling and data-driven analysis.
Our STEM facilities enhance your learning experience, benefitting from a mathematical modelling lab and a suite designed for advanced mathematical studies.
The financial modules will also run from our Business School, where you’ll have access to the Bloomberg Trading Room, giving you the opportunity to train with real-time and historical financial data.
Technology is embedded throughout the course, providing access to specialist equipment and software.
With these facilities, you will have the tools needed for both theoretical and practical learning, preparing you for the professional world.
Take a virtual tour

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-fine-art-extended-degree-uusxnt1:
Art isn’t just in galleries - it’s all around us, in our cities, landscapes, and buildings, and even in our digital spaces.
Art shapes how we see the world, reflect on our past, and express the present.
At Northumbria, studying the BA (Hons) Fine Art will help you become a thoughtful, skilled artist who understands the power of art and can connect with communities locally and globally.
This course blends theory with hands-on practice to prepare you for many career paths, from community arts and teaching to curating, arts management, and more.
You’ll explore the many forms of art with guidance from Northumbria’s experienced art practitioners, historians, and industry partners like The BALTIC Centre for Contemporary Art .
Each module is built on active research that brings fresh insights to your learning experience.
The course is dynamic and flexible, allowing you to tailor your studies to fit your goals and giving you a strong foundation for further study or a successful career in the arts.
Top 15 – Art & Design at Northumbria is
ranked top 15 in the UK (Times Good University Guide, 2025).
Taking on Tomorrow – This course is
contemporary, future-facing, and critically rigorous, preparing you to make a
positive impact in the world.
Research Powerhouse – Art and Design at
Northumbria is ranked 4th in the UK for research power (REF, 2021).
This is a
rise of 6 places compared to 2014.
Student Rated – Over 96% of students studying Fine Art at Northumbria believed they had chance to explore ideas and concepts in depth (NSS, 2025).
Partnered with Industry – The fantastic
opportunity to work with the BALTIC Centre for Contemporary Art , where you will develop the skills and confidence
needed for your future.
Cultural partnerships are when groups or institutions work together to share or promote art, traditions, or values.
At Northumbria, this includes museums, charities, and education partners teaming up to create an enhanced curriculum designed to support your learning experience and employability.
For example, there is the chance to work with The BALTIC Centre for Contemporary Art on developing an exhibition proposal.
Here, you will work in teams, as artists with different skill sets and backgrounds.
In doing so, you will develop skills in project management and arts business that are important to employers within the creative and cultural industries.
From the start, this course helps you develop essential skills like critical thinking, teamwork, communication, and confidence.
As you progress, you’ll gain industry-specific abilities, from using digital editing software to understanding art criticism, research, design, and project management.
As well as working on projects with the BALTIC Centre , you may also wish to organise an external work placement, gaining hands-on industry experience and confidence.
Many course modules are designed to boost your employability, helping you gain relevant skills and explore future career paths in the arts.
The extended degree gives you the chance to establish a strong academic foundation while exploring a wide range of creative arts disciplines, with a key focus on fine art.
In the foundation year of this course, you'll have access to a diverse range of learning opportunities in challenging, engaging, and dynamic studio environments.
You'll explore a number of different academic skills for higher education in relation to creative arts and fine art.
The teaching approach combines studio and workshop activities, lectures, seminars, and hands-on experience with technology and equipment.
UCAS Code Z001
Theoretical Knowledge : This course combines classroom
and studio learning, plus engagement with local cultural centres.
From the start, you’ll dive into theories and concepts that shape your critical
thinking and creative practice.
As you progress, you’ll apply this knowledge to
different artistic contexts, exploring topics like ethics, representation, and
diversity in the cultural industry.
Hands-on Experiences : Throughout the degree, you’ll
gain hands-on experience with different artistic techniques and equipment,
developing skills and confidence as you build your portfolio.
For example, you have the option to add a placement or study abroad in Europe or North
America.
Tailor your degree : Your final year lets you tailor
your studies with modules like Identities , Technologies , World-building ,
and Place and Community , where you’ll bring fresh ideas to current
industry conversations.
You’ll also complete a major project based on your
interests, giving you a chance to define your unique artistic style.
After this course, you can consider postgraduate study, such
as our Fine
Art Conservation MA (Easel Painting) , to further develop your expertise.
Understanding Engagement
Technologies
Identities
Final Project
We are interested in you as an artist and how we can support your learning and ambitions for the future.
At Northumbria we take a look at each applicant's portfolio.
Recently, Northumbria Fine Art students facilitated online workshops and activities for Japanese peers.
It was exciting to exchange practice and see the work created.
This course has an excellent academic support system
provided by knowledgeable and enthusiastic staff, who have a shared passion for
their profession and the course.
Our staff have specialisms in areas such as photography,
digital art, performance art, painting, sound installations, conservation, and
Black and Global Majority art.
The diverse specialisms of our staff mean that
you will have the opportunity to undertake modules covering areas such as art
history, contemporary art practice, world art, art and war, art and business,
materials and making, curation, and political activism.
Our experienced academic staff will engage you in a range of
stimulating, contemporary debates that explore the global influence of art and
the cultural industries and the factors that drive changes in perception.
Our
tutors are committed to excellence in teaching and learning and delivering an
outstanding student experience.
Perfect for creative thinkers, our Art department comprises
of a multitude of workspaces and equipment ready for you to utilize for your
learning and creating.
As a Fine Art student, you will have access to studios and
workshops supporting a range of approaches to making, including painting,
sculpture, print, digital print, dark room photography, moving image, paper
making, sound and performance.
The studios are complemented by a generous
access to project spaces in which you can test your ideas and host your own
exhibitions, events and workshops.
Events, exhibitions, talks, performances, placements and
work opportunities are available through the course, and there are plenty of
opportunities to connect with the exciting Newcastle art scene.
This
includes The Newbridge Project , Workplace , Vane , and our own Gallery
North .
Newcastle is the cultural centre of the North East and our
innovative partnerships with outstanding arts organisations such as BALTIC Centre for Contemporary Art ensure you receive an exciting insight into the art world.
You can also access your eLearning Portal from anywhere.
This portal provides quick access to course materials and support, course
information, such as class materials, handbooks and supplementary materials
(e.g., weblinks, news items) as well as working as a communication hub with
course mates and lecturers.
Our campus has been fitted out with state-of-the-art facilities and the latest in art and design technology
Northumbria’s rich and diverse research environment provides undergraduates with many opportunities to learn from and engage in active, meaningful research across the arts.
Our research-active faculty specialize in diverse arts
disciplines, bringing their expertise and ongoing projects directly into your
learning experience.
Faculty members often work on live projects, creating
chances for you to engage with and even participate in real-world creative
initiatives.
Through "live briefs" with cultural sector
partners, you'll collaborate with commissioning bodies—building industry
connections and gaining practical experience.
Developed through Professorial research, our papermaking
facility offers hands-on access to traditional Asian papermaking techniques,
enriching your skillset in a unique, accessible space.
Spittal Community School visit.
Year 3 pupils were invited to spend a day in Northumbria's Fine Art studios alongside our first year students.
This research event facilitated a shared informal, spontaneous, creative collaborative space where the boundaries between artist/maker and visitor/spectator became not only blurred but interchangeable.
Graduates of this course will be equipped with a
sophisticated knowledge of important issues that shape our lives, and the
skills to express their critical ideas in a range of multimedia formats.
On completion you will be well placed to move into a career
in the creative and cultural industries, marketing, community arts, teaching,
curating, arts management, assisting artists, gallery or studio management.
As well as preparing you for your career through modules and
learning, you may also wish to enhance our experience with an optional placement year .
Previous placements have included gallery and museum work
in schools, art therapy, events management and production, or assisting artists
in an exhibition or art production.
Whatever you decide to do, you will have strong
employability as a result of having acquired the characteristics of a
Northumbria graduate.
These include critical reflection and self-learning,
collaboration and curiosity, and the ability to apply your knowledge to solve
problems in ways that are sustainable and ethical.
Find out what our graduates are involved in
I question anyone who thinks that a fine art degree is about painting.
It’s about changing your mindset.
Lyndsay Close
Fine Art Alumni
Annalisa
Project Manager Assistant/Administrator at GemArts and freelance Project Coordinator at Skimstone Arts.
Jade Sweeting
Print Making Technician
Lily Mellor
Programme Manager at Liverpool Biennial
Sophie Crocker
New Writing North Programme Officer in the
Participation and Young People team.
AD3017 -
The Body (Core,20 Credits)
This module will introduce you to contemporary concepts and creative studio production processes related to the theme of the ‘Body’.
You will learn to develop and produce a range of experimental collaborative and individual artworks under the direction of academic staff from across subject disciplines.
Through directed and self-directed approaches around a range of studio and workshop practices you will produce a portfolio of work that offers a personal reflection on a subject that has fired the imagination since the first humans established their presence through paintings on cave walls, collective performance or carvings into rocks.
You will learn to understand the importance of primary research from source and the application of collaborative interdisciplinary practices.
The Body is a complex subject and you will be engaged in a number of learning situations that will build your awareness and understanding of critical engagement and reflective thinking through creative practice.
You will develop a greater knowledge of how the Body has been the catalyst for artists producing paintings, sculpture, live art performances, drama, dance, text, photography and film; and be introduced to the theoretical debates such as body politics, feminism and ethics.
Working in a team you will further learn from each other’s practices and creative interventions through experimentation, making and discussion.
This will enable you to build confidence in outlining your own views and position.
Creative practitioners have often looked to artists in the past to inspire new directions in their own work.
In this module you will be asked to identify a specific artwork inspired by the Body theme and transcribe it in your own terms.
This is a valuable learning tool in research and development leading to a final output.
The transcription project will aid you develop a more personal direction that will inform the Identity module in semester 2.
AD3018 -
Art and the City (Core,20 Credits)
This module will introduce you to contemporary concepts and creative studio production processes related to the theme of Arts and the City.
Through directed and self-directed approaches around a range of studio and workshop practices you will produce a portfolio of work that offers an exploration of the inter-relationship between the city that we see and the city that we imagine.
Arts and the city are intertwined, and this module gives you an opportunity to develop your own arts practice through observation and interrogation of the cultural life, activities and artefacts of a real city.
Through arts practices, students will consider the role of arts within the environments of the city, developing knowledge on how arts can explore, reflect, enhance and critique the city and its citizens.
The module will consider the location and impact of arts and culture in introducing the relationship between artist and spectator/audience/public.
The module will also introduce you to the distinctive environment and culture that has shaped Newcastle and Gateshead and how Tyneside has evolved into an international centre for the arts.
Consequently this Semester 1 module will help locate you in a studio culture for the first time and complement the learning activities around interpretation of form and function linked to the Body module.
AD3019 -
Identity (Core,20 Credits)
“Identity’ is the final module in the Arts Foundation Year course and helps position your practice towards a BA Honours programme in one of the visual and performing arts subjects.
Through this module you will learn to demonstrate in a portfolio of work your creative practice and emerging personal philosophy moving towards a major project output and personal statement.
In building a profile as a student of the arts, your practice is informed by your skills, knowledge, experience and imagination.
Across the visual and performing arts there are a wide range of delivery processes and methodologies for presenting your practice.
This module enables you to be ambitious with your creative studio work and learn to make critical decisions about your identity that will influence your future direction.
Gombrich once told us that ‘there is no such thing as art, only artists.’ In completing this final study you will learn how to draw upon the creative practitioners that have influenced you and examine 2 artists/performers/directors/scriptwriters with whom you strongly identify.
In this module you will also learn to outline your personal development to date and position your practice against the cultural sector that it is most aligned (fine art, drama, live art performance, applied theatre, animation etc).
A supporting document will provide a narrative of that development and will be considered alongside a final major work.
Working in a team you will further learn from each other’s practices and creative interventions through experimentation, making, discussion and evaluation.
Following semester 1 and the Nature and Technologies module you will learn how to use your feedback to develop a greater understanding of your personal artistic position moving towards your final submission.
AD3020 -
Nature and Technologies (Core,20 Credits)
Our interaction with nature and the environment and a need to capture and understand these experiences has informed the production of a range of creative arts practices (landscape painting/site specific performance/multi-media installation).
Likewise artists have always had an interest in the natural sciences and have an increasing concern about the trajectory of change given the rapid developments in modern technologies in the last century.
This module will introduce you to contemporary concepts and creative studio production processes related to the theme of Nature and Technology.
You will learn about new digital methodologies of production and be able to discern between appropriate use of low tech or high tech production processes in the making of work and the development of your practice.
Workshops will enable you to learn more about new media technology and how it may be applied to your scholarly and studio interests.
Creative practitioners often look to the sciences to develop new directions in their own practice.
In this module you will also be asked to examine the concept of evolution and how this is aligned to your own creative practice; the germination of an idea, fermentation and final output/product.
You will learn to understand the value of being a student in a university that has a wide variety of academic resources available to enable you to develop your knowledge and creative practice (geo-sciences/life and chemical sciences/earth and space research) Working in a team you will further learn from each other’s practices and creative interventions through experimentation, making, discussion and evaluation.
Following semester 1 you will learn how to use your summative feedback to develop a greater understanding of student centred learning building a more personal artistic position in advance of the final ‘Identity‘ module
AD3048 -
Creative Research (Core,20 Credits)
On this module, you will build, and evidence a range of creative research, professional and transferable employability skills you have developed through your first semester of Foundation Year.
These will include short demonstrations of cogent academic prose, accurate academic citation, research skills, independent learning.
Assessment showcases presentation and visual research skills.
You will develop skills throughout the semester, drawing evidence from workshops, lectures and seminars from this first semester module.
AD3049 -
Creative and Critical Research (Core,20 Credits)
On this module, you will build upon and further evidence a range of creative and critical research, professional and transferable employability skills you have developed through your Foundation Year.
You will develop skills throughout the semester, drawing evidence from workshops, lectures and seminars from this second semester module.
VA4012 -
Strategies in Studio Practice (Core,20 Credits)
You will develop an understanding of the term ‘practice’ and its meaning in the context of art making.
Drawing on a range of specific case studies from recent historical and contemporary artists,  you will be introduced to a range of strategies for making work in the studio.
These approaches will integrate formal, material and conceptual strategies of making.
They will afford you the ability to improvise, to work responsively with the qualities of a given material, to establish generative processes, to work within set limits or rules and to employ metacognition in your reflection.
You will learn an appreciation and responsibility for the studio environment.
Collaboration and group critique will help initiate a studio culture that is open and constructive.
‘Good studio practice’ will be embedded in the learning and will include induction to technical resources available to the programme.
VA4013 -
Positions in Practice (Core,20 Credits)
This module will introduce you to the idea of an artistic position – you will come to understand how artists map an identity for themselves through specialisation in practice and the specifics of their contextual interests.
Building on the research skills developed in semester 1, you will begin your own journey in developing an artistic position by beginning to work through and identify your specific areas of practical and contextual interest.
VA4014 -
Introduction to Contemporary Art (Core,20 Credits)
To enable the development of your own independent art-making, your learning will include practical skills in drawing, in both manual and digital forms, to help visualise and document ideas.
You will learn the principles of visual and textual analysis in order to support your critical acuity and academic writing; this will include key academic skills in conducting research, sourcing and referencing.
Your studio engagement will be supported by learning necessary skills in presenting, hanging, installing and documenting artworks in both 2D and 3D forms.
You will also be required to complete appropriate Health and Safety inductions in order to appreciate good studio practice.
To complement your practical and professional skills, you will receive an introduction to the emergence of modern art and its expansion in the contemporary context.
To map the historic development of Western artistic practice, examples will be used from three main periods: •	The growth of the modern city, visualised through 19th Century Impressionism •	The development of ideas of society through 20th century Modernism •	The questioning of society through resistant contemporary art practices.
Particularly those associated with gender, race, sexuality and class.
These examples will be used to investigate fundamental considerations about representation, intercultural processes, decolonisation strategies, materiality, process, display, accessibility, networks and viewership, and to help you reflect upon your own creative practice.
By studying, analysing and discussing these examples, you will learn key skills in researching, analysing and writing about art, which will give you the core foundational skills for study through your programme.
VA4015 -
Visual Material Culture 1 (Core,20 Credits)
Through this module you will begin to develop a creative and critical research practice that compliments your investigations in the studio.
You will learn how to identify and discern different voices and opinions within the field that equip you with essential research skills and offer ways of working through your own thinking and making.
The module builds a foundation for you to develop your own artistic and conceptual positions as you move forward through the programme.
VA4016 -
Visual Material Culture 2 (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will be introduced to some fundamental principals in artistic production; how context contributes to the production of meaning in art making.
You will develop your critical reflection from semester 1 while gaining insight to a range of contexts that are informed by material, social, political and historical concerns in art making.
You will learn to identify your own perspectives in relation to the subjects you encounter.
You will reflect on your own experiences in relation to the context of others and work to draw out critical understandings of how practice is informed by its social, political, historical and environmental experience.
VA4017 -
Understanding Engagement (Core,20 Credits)
The Understanding Engagement module involves work with an external institutional partner to extend your network as artists and practitioners with a live brief co-produced with that partner.
It supports the development of your technical and creative skills and combines reflections on studio practice with a sustained analysis of the worlds of contemporary art.
Working in peer groups, you will develop a sustained, innovative practice, and this will be within the context of an understanding of contemporary artists, some of whom you will meet during the module.
You will learn about the role of studios which will feed into your level 5 studio practice, as well as questions of networking, marketing, branding, audience-building, project management, ethics, and creative skills.
This is situated in the wider context of these issues in the creative sector.
Working to a live brief with your institution/organisation, you will work within them on creative sites and spaces, on pitching and on networking.
These relationships will develop all kinds of soft skills and activities which mutually support the artist and the organisation, and you will be assessed on how you respond to the live brief in creative ways.
Understanding the relationship of place to community will enhance your pathways through your degree and beyond.
VA5007 -
Art Practice 3: Thinking Through Making (Core,20 Credits)
To support the development of your practice there will be a series of lecture and seminar sessions investigating how historical and contemporary artists have questioned society and its cultures.
Focusing on key examples in their historical context, artists’ manifestos and writings, theoretical texts and creative strategies, we will investigate what constitutes a “critical art practice” through two key questions: what are artists critical of; and how is that criticality expressed?
Examining historical and contemporary examples, we will focus upon four main areas: •	Questioning the institutions and spaces of the artworld •	Critique of society and its structures •	Questioning cultural conventions and traditional methods of representation •	Questioning humans’ relationship with the environment.
VA5008 -
Art Practice 4: Understanding Research (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about key themes related to historical, theoretical, and critical developments in and influences on contemporary art practice relevant to an understanding of recent debates and developments, allowing you to contextualise your own studio practice within the terms of history and theory in preparation for Level 6.
This will allow you to develop a deeper critical understanding of the relationship between form and content in your own art making and you will learn how to develop a professional understanding of appropriate technical and conceptual strategies for the production and presentation of your artworks.
You will develop the ability to reflect critically on the historical and contemporary relationship of artists to society at local, national and global levels, and develop competence in skills enabling you to undertake critical visual analysis, independent research, and present findings through the medium of discursive writing.
This module enables you to learn through the work of your peers and position your evolving practice against contemporary frameworks and theoretical ideas in current art practice.
Through the learning you will develop the intellectual and practical skills required to start to assess your own work and studio position allowing you to take responsibility for the development of your visual enquiry.
All of your learning underpins your studio practice with a strong subject specific knowledge base and the range of strategies aims to engender your confidence in identifying and understanding new knowledge in relation to your practice.
VA5011 -
Public Engagement (Core,20 Credits)
The learning within the module centres on bringing your studio-centred artmaking and contextual contemporary art knowledge into live work projects within professional artworld work environments through a placement and supporting workshops.
The central topics of the learning are: •	Preparing for effective live working within a professional artworld project.
•	Establishing applied knowledge and understanding of the North East regional artworld, its organisations, intuitions and grass-roots ecologies.
•	Applying independent artmaking and arts knowledge (developed through the programme) into live work projects within professional artworld contexts.
•	Learning (externally to the teaching) through a live work within a professional artworld work context.
•	Evaluating and reporting on the learning and knowledge development from a live work within a professional artworld work context.
•	Building career and employment knowledge through live working within a professional artworld work context.
•	Establishing networks through live working within a professional artworld work context.
Keywords and critical frameworks are: Live project placement Contemporary art practice Collaboration and collective working Mentorship and professional learning Networking and careers enhancement Art Education, Art Research, Contemporary Art Projects Enhancing cultural capital Enhancing social capital In this module you will learn how to engage responsibly and effectively within professional working contexts.
You will learn how to contribute through a small peer-group into a collective and collaborative work environment, and you will learn how to evaluate and reflect-on the range of skills and learning you are developing through that process.
You will learn how to apply learning to focus-on and expand post University work opportunities and your onward careers ambitions.
You will learn to evaluate and report objectively on your work and outputs within live working contexts.
You will learn how to meet professional work standards, and mobilise your artmaking in ways open and enhance future work and career opportunities.
VA5012 -
Studio and Gallery (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will learn how to develop an exhibition proposal in a way that considers the development of your studio work in relation to its audience and the audience experience.
In doing so you will learn to establish a wider independent appreciation, knowledge and understanding of the external professional contexts that frame and position the activities and production of your work in an exhibition beyond the studio.
In doing so you will extend your understanding of the research-led enquiries that professional artists undertake to develop exhibition proposals, including the research methodologies that artists and gallery professionals use to understand and respond to the diverse social and geographic contexts of any exhibition’s production and presentation.
You will learn about methodologies, mediums and materials that artists use to present their ideas in the proposal.
You will also learn to enhance your understanding of professional contexts within the contemporary artworld in relation to career pathways and professional opportunities.
You will develop transferable professional skills in areas presentation, communication, project management, problem solving and the ability to reflect critically on your actions and achievements.
VA5015 -
Art Discourses and Encounters 1 (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will have the opportunity to select into a thematic grouping depending on your emerging studio interests and concerns.
The thematic groupings will allow you to encounter relevant practices, themes and discourses within contemporary art practice.
This will, in turn, inform your own developing critical art-making practice – allowing you to situate your emerging practice within the wider discourses of contemporary art.
Themes to choose from might include, worldbuilding, place and communities, identities and technologies.
You will also learn to be an active participant within collaborative activities and debates which will help you identify your own art-making position.
VA5016 -
Art Discourses and Encounters 2 (Core,20 Credits)
This module builds on Art Discourses and Encounters 1 that you will have undertaken in semester 1.
You will have a further opportunity to select into a thematic grouping that will explore a particular set of discourses and themes within contemporary art, led by the research Interests of the teaching staff.
In this module you will develop a deeper understanding of the inter-connection of theory to practice and be able to develop your own personal take on this dynamic in relation to your art-making.
You will also have the opportunity to experience collaborative and collective ways of working which will both inform, and expand upon, your own personal ways of working.
VA6008 -
Final Project (Core,40 Credits)
The learning within the module centres on bringing your studio-centred artmaking (production) into public-reaching sites of presentation through informed strategies of exhibition-making.
The central topics of the learning are: Bringing independent artmaking to public and artworld audiences.
Identifying and progressing (testing and evaluating) individually appropriate sites of presentation (where and on what terms artmaking meets publics).
Extending and progressing (developing, testing and evaluating) the artmaking (its production) through individually appropriate forms of exhibition-making (how and on what terms artmaking meets publics).
Addressing and negotiating collective and group-centred forms of public exhibition and presentation.
Delivering independent technically resolved artmaking to public audiences through presentation and exhibition.
Delivering an effective and appropriate public-reaching distribution (dissemination) of independent artmaking (practice).
Establishing an effective and appropriate public-reaching representation of independent artmaking (practice).
Keywords and critical frameworks are: Contemporary art practice.
Critical and contextual artmaking (independent artmaking).
Public-reaching presentation.
Extended forms of exhibition-making.
Group Exhibition (as an expanded term).
Terms: Exhibition is used both in its artworld context and as a term inclusive of distributed and diverse sites of presentation - not bound exclusively by the gallery.
Exhibition-making is used to signal the continuing production of artmaking within exhibition delivery.
And its extended forms within contemporary art practice, including online, digital, virtual, social, workshop, event, publishing forms.
VA6009 -
Independent Research Project (Core,20 Credits)
This module is your opportunity to undertake some extended research into a topic that interests you, in the broad field of art history, theory and material culture.
The outcome will be an essay of 3000 words, building on your experience in prior modules.
It is sensible to choose an area that has some relevance to your studio practice as the research you undertake will inform your practice and may help you develop your ideas.
While the focus of this module is upon independent research, it will be supported by three workshop-seminars in planning, bibliography building and editing.
You will also be assigned an academic supervisor who will offer 90 minutes of 1-2-1 tutorials, usually delivered as three separate tutorials in semester 1.
The main object of this module is to develop a good understanding of building an argument through research.
Your essay must engage with scholarly sources, and you will use these sources to develop a critically engaged essay.
VA6010 -
Professional and Self-Organising Practice (Core,20 Credits)
The module is delivered in three-hour seminar sessions that blend lectures, discussions, readings and group exercises.
After an introduction to contemporary cultural production and self-organising, every two weeks a new topic will be introduced with a practice-led and theory-led seminar on each.
These subjects may include: ways to make your work public, ways to write professionally about your work, how to organise artist-led culture, different aspects of professional production, what independent and institutional curators do, how to cultivate a supportive network, and how to integrate care-led perspectives to your professional practice.
Woven throughout these themes is a consideration of regional institutions and culture in the North East, budgeting and writing for diverse audiences, and your use of both physical and digital platforms.
In addition to equipping you with practical knowledge and professional skills, the module’s intellectual enquiry is underpinned by a engaged understanding of self-organising, entrepreneurialism, and exploitation in the contemporary cultural sector.
VA6011 -
Sites of Production / Sites of Presentation (Core,40 Credits)
The module supports you in situating and articulating your art-making and artworks to others and in bringing them into public contexts through diverse and distributed spaces of presentation such as exhibition-making, performance, digital interfaces, social and situation-based strategies.
In this module you will continue building on your studio practice you have been developing in Leves 4 and 5, whilst learning more about how audiences might engage with the work you are making.
This will help you develop a critical practice that engages with different places where your work might be made visible as well as the different publics that might engage with its new visibility.
We will look at relevant examples of private and public making, as well as the implications these have for exhibition-making in different kinds of visited public and private space.
You will also be introduced to practices, sites and interventions that address some of the structures of making work public that may have traditionally benefited particular kinds of work or groups of people whilst disadvantaging others.
For example, we will consider how different sites attract different publics or support particular media, and give you the opportunity to imagine how your own work might benefit from or contest these structures.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-fine-art-uusfnt1:
UCAS Code W105
View our Portfolio Guides
Our campus has been fitted out with state-of-the-art facilities and the latest in art and design technology.
Find out what our graduates are involved in.
MATERIALS This is a studio-based programme and we expect students to require additional art materials to support their project work.
The department will be able to provide some generic art materials such as paper, printing inks, clay and plaster, but there will be instances where specialist materials are needed based on individual requirements.
In those instances, students will have to bear the additional costs.
We anticipate the cost to be approximately £100 on average.
PRINTING Students are likely to be producing printed work and as such, will incur additional printing costs.
Again this very much depends on an individual basis based on the type of project chosen by the student but we approximate the additional printing cost to be £50.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/fine-art-foundation-year-uusffa1:
Acting as a gateway to degree-level study, the Fine Art Foundation Year course allows you to study a broad range of creative arts disciplines, with a key focus on fine art.
You will also acquire key transferable skills such as effective communication, team work, time and project management, research and digital literacy, all of which can prove vital to achieving at University and gaining employment after graduation.
Taught by a team of world-leading artists and academics, you will be equipped to successfully take your learning to the next level.
This course is delivered through a mix of classroom and studio-based learning, with engagement with the cultural centres in the region available to further enhance your learning.
Top 15 - Art & Design at Northumbria is ranked top 15 in the UK (Times Good University Guide, 2025).
Research powerhouse - Art and Design at Northumbria is ranked 4th in the UK for research power (REF, 2021).
Taking on Tomorrow - This course is contemporary, future-facing and critically rigorous, preparing you to make a positive impact in the world.
Partnered with Industry - The fantastic opportunity to work with the BALTIC Centre for Contemporary Art , where you will be set live briefs and can work within public and community settings.
Upon successful completion of the foundation year, you will be able to progress into any of the following undergraduate programmes.
BA (Hons) Fine Art
UCAS Code W150
The Fine Art Foundation Year course offers a wide range of learning opportunities in challenging, stimulating and dynamic studio learning environments.
Delivered over two semesters, this course incorporates six modules.
You will also complete an assessed portfolio that can include various art forms such as performance, digital and recorded submissions, artwork and live practice.
Your confidence and capabilities as a university learner will also be enhanced through our skills programme and the opportunity to participate in individual and group guidance tutorials.
Art and the City
Identity
Nature and Technologies
The Body
A showcase of Drama around the city.
Students of the course (re)performed and (re)imagined famous speeches in prominent city spaces.
Northubmria students learn how to do screen printing in a Arts and Design Screen Printing Workshop.
Delivered by a specialist team of academics and practicing artists, you can rest assured that the skills you learn will be at the forefront of this exciting industry.
To fully support your learning journey you will have a dedicated personal tutor who will be on-hand to offer help or assistance throughout the duration of your studies.
Northumbria University regularly welcomes outside speakers and alumni to provide an insight into how you can increase your employability and the external pathways that an arts qualification can provide.
You will be supported at every step of your course, ensuring you leave with confidence and the understanding required to progress to your preferred undergraduate degree.
You will work in
our dedicated art and performance spaces featuring state-of-the-art facilities.
Our learning environment includes specialist provision for performance, sound,
moving image, painting, sculpture, print, digital print, dark room photography,
and paper making.
Our onsite theatre is kitted out with high quality
technology.
You will have access to project spaces in which you can test your
ideas and host your own events, performances, exhibitions, and workshops.
The 24/7 University Library achieves
some of the highest levels of student satisfaction in the UK and has held the
Cabinet Office accreditation for Customer Service Excellence since 2010.
Technology enhanced learning is
embedded throughout this course and materials such as module handbooks,
assessment information, lecture presentation slides and reading lists will be
available via our innovative e-learning platform, Blackboard.
You can also access student support and
other key University systems through your personal account.
Throughout the duration of this course you will experience research and practice-informed teaching which is both contemporary and innovative and will allow you to develop your practice skills, academic knowledge and creativity.
Our academic team has extensive experience of both the practical and academic application of the arts and this emphasis, in addition to the support of a research rich learning environment, will allow you to develop a research-informed, studio culture experience.
At the end of this course you will have developed your own knowledge and critical evaluation skills, allowing you to understand the most effective ways to gather information related to your upcoming undergraduate degree.
This course has been specifically designed to develop your ability to commence to one of our exciting undergraduate degrees in either Fine Art or Theatre and Performance.
When you begin your chosen undergraduate degree, the skills acquired on the Fine Art Foundation Year course should assist in your understanding of your chosen subject.
Your newly developed research skills will also prove invaluable for assignments and projects.
Completion of your subsequent undergraduate degree, we will help to prepare you for future employment or the progression to further education or Master’s level courses.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-food-science-and-nutrition-extended-degree-uusxsu1:
Food Science and Nutrition BSc will provide you with the necessary scientific understanding of food science and human nutrition to take the next step into your chosen career.
You’ll be introduced to food safety and quality, food sensory analysis, new product development, food processing and preservation, as well as applied and practical nutrition skills and clinical nutrition.
The course offers flexibility as you can opt for a specialist pathway of study - meaning you can either continue with BSc Food Science and Nutrition, or choose to specialise in BSc Human Nutrition which has an emphasis on developing proficiency in nutrition specific professions.
If you chose to follow the Human Nutrition pathway, you will have the opportunity to apply for Direct Entry to the UKVRN at Associate status.
Whichever pathway you choose, there will be extensive opportunities to gain real-world experience and apply your knowledge with a six-week work based placement and the option of completing an industrial placement.
On graduation you will be ready and able to contribute to the food and health agenda in roles spanning product development and quality assurance through to procurement, sales and marketing.
Over 91% of students studying Food Science and Nutrition at Northumbria believed their course positively challenged them to achieve their best work (NSS, 2025).
Nutrition at Northumbria is ranked 8th in the UK (Daily Mail University Guide, 2025).
UCAS Code Z056
You will be provided with the best possible practical learning experience through wet lab and IT based classes, which will include data collection and the use of specialist software such as our very own food processing pilot plant.
The learning experience is collaborative with lectures, tutorials and seminars led by academic staff, students and external lecturers, who bring specific knowledge and provide you with the opportunity to debate contemporary topics with industry active specialists.
The ability to follow your own interests is encouraged with practical course components such as human nutrition career days, factory visits and other industrial trips that will help you apply your learning and develop your career ambitions for the future.
At all stages of study you will be encouraged to embrace your creativity, to approach problems innovatively and to develop entrepreneurship skills through innovative assessment tasks.
Our teaching staff is made up of industry specialists and registered nutritionists from a broad range of backgrounds.
Each academic brings with them vast experience, from working with firms such as Unilever to conducting research on behalf of government departments and within leading hospitals.
They are all actively engaged in contemporary research and consultancy – partnering with industry on research, working on on-going public sector projects and collaborating with businesses and governments on a worldwide scale.
This passion and commitment translates into inspiring teaching and we’re exceptionally proud of the consistently great feedback we have about the quality of teaching delivered on the BSc Food Science and Nutrition courses.
You will work in state-of-the-art laboratories and with specialist software, building your ability in core areas to make your transition into the world of work easier.
You’ll have excellent lecture resources to work with too.
All academic materials are available on your online learning platform (eLP), allowing you to learn at your own pace and stay up to date, wherever you are.
Digital reading lists provide instant access to key texts and you’ll be able to submit and receive feedback on assessments electronically.
Electronic discussion boards such as wikis and blogs are used for networking, support and review.
You’ll always be given a full understanding of the scope, method and application of your studies, helping you to progress and readying you for your first job or further research.
Research rich learning is a core component of the teaching strategy, whichever pathway you choose.
At each stage of your learning, research-led teaching encourages you to critically engage with current research while developing your own research interests.
Staff are currently exploring topics as diverse as eating disorders, nutrition in care homes, food chemistry and flavour formation and antioxidant supplementation.
You’ll have the opportunity to look at these topics through a research rich lens, building your research skills at each level in preparation for your final year research project.
This helps you develop professional skills and critical thinking that are very much in demand in the workplace.
Visit the Food and Nutrition Research homepage.
The hands-on teaching approach on the Food and Nutrition and Human Nutrition courses provides you with subject-specific skills you will need in the workplace.
You’ll also develop a host of transferrable skills that are in demand with employers.
Sought after skills from critical thinking and project management through to data mining and record keeping will support your future career choices.
You may choose to launch a specialist career or research within the field of Food and Nutrition or to cast your net wider.
A range of careers will be open to you when you graduate, including product development, technical and quality assurance, public health, dietetics, marketing, sales or management positions.
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Food Science and Nutrition.
AP0409 -
Fundamental Nutrition (20 Credits)
You will learn some of the fundamental principles in the field of human nutrition such as the biochemistry, physiology, structure and function of macro and micronutrients.
The focus of lectures will also be on the discussion of diet and the maintenance of optimum health.
Examples and consequences of nutrient deficiencies and excesses, and the contribution of diet and lifestyle to the establishment of disease, will also be discussed.
Another aspect of the module will explore nutritional methods used in a public health context including dietary assessment, dietary surveying as well as crucial concepts in nutritional studies (ie Eatwell Plate and portion sizes).
Dietary reference values will also be introduced.
You will discuss comparisons of typical British diets with some important UK-ethnic diets and discuss the role of culture, education and personal preference on eating behaviour, including dysfunctional behaviour in the case of eating disorders (anorexia and bulimia nervosa).
During practical work you will look at the analytical methods used to identify and quantify nutrients present in foods, providing a link to the understanding of food nutritional labelling.
Another practical component will introduce you to basic techniques in anthropometric measurements, and include calculations of body mass index and body composition indexes, and the discussion of their use and limitations for the assessment of human health status.
AP0410 -
Food Science (20 Credits)
You will learn about some of the fundamental scientific principles underlying the manufacture of food products including the biological, chemical and physical properties of commonly used raw materials such as eggs, milk, cereal flours, plant derived products and muscle based ingredients.
You will study the changes that occur to molecular components such as carbohydrates, proteins, lipids, and colour and flavour molecules during various food manufacturing processes and the effects on the overall properties of food products.
Chemical changes to food components such as hydrolysis, oxidation and reduction and physical changes like protein denaturation and changes in viscosity will be studied.
Biological changes in the nutritional potential and microbiological and toxicological safety will also be considered.
You will learn about various food manufacturing processes such as the production of dairy products, baked merchandise, starch based sauces and desserts, meat products and colloidal systems like emulsions and foams.
The use of additives and food preservation as well as methods of sensory and quality evaluation will be studied.
You will be guided on the writing of a practical laboratory report following the IMRAD style.
AP0521 -
Nutrition Through the Lifecycle (20 Credits)
This module introduces the concepts of nutrition as applied to stages of life, from infancy to old age and investigates diet-related health conditions.
You will draw on your existing knowledge of dietary reference values and guidelines and explore the different requirements and reasons for these, in different stages of life and states of health.
You will also learn the theories of behaviour change so that you understand the ways in which health professionals can plan behaviour change interventions and support populations to make heathier choices.
Topics covered in this module include: Principles of nutrition and dietetics: Health promotion theory and practice, Planning and constructing interventions Energy balance and energy expenditure calculations.
Under and over nutrition: Nutritional significance and requirements for nutrients through the lifecycle.
Diet-related diseases such as cardiovascular disease, Diabetes mellitus, Cancer and dietary factors
AP0522 -
Careers Skills in Food and Nutrition (Core,20 Credits)
The aim of the module is to provide you with an opportunity to develop your self-awareness of your knowledge, skills, attributes and experience, to help support you in your career journey.
You will gain hands-on experience of a work setting, allowing you to explore the roles and responsibilities if a food or nutrition-related industry.
You will reflect on your experiences and consider how these can contribute to the development of graduate attributes and employability skills.
AP0523 -
Analytical and Food Chemistry (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn some of the fundamental theoretical principles in the field of food chemistry with particular reference to the chemistry of food components, Maillard reaction, caramelisation and lipid oxidation.
This will be supplemented with knowledge on the parameters that influence such reactions and the impact of processing and storage on the overall product quality.
You will learn about key theoretical concepts in analytical chemistry pertinent to quality control processes in a food manufacturing setting.
Such concepts include physicochemical properties of food components as well as theoretical principles pertinent to food sampling, extraction, purification and determination using a series of analytical methodologies such as spectrophotometry, gas chromatography (GC) and high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC).
Theoretical concepts in data analysis will also be discussed and employed in IT workshops.
You will also learn and employ laboratory techniques in chemical analysis pertinent to the determination of macronutrients (protein, fat, carbohydrates), as well as techniques related to the determination of compounds such as vitamins, sugars and fatty acids.
During practical work you will look at the analytical methods used to identify and quantify such nutrients, providing a link to the understanding of food nutritional labelling.
You will gain insights in Good Laboratory Practice and Health and Safety pertinent to analytical laboratories, as well as the importance of Quality Assurance schemes employed in laboratories.
AP0524 -
Food Microbiology (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will develop your understanding of how microbes pervade the environment and impact the preparation, storage and safety of foods and drinks.
You will explore the types of cellular microbes and their metabolism including yeast, filamentous fungi and bacteria.
We will also consider the biology of non-cellular infectious agents such as viruses and prions and countermeasures required to prevent food-borne infection.
You will explore the microbiology of the human digestive tract in health and disease and distinguish infection with food-borne pathogens from food-poisoning.
Additionally, the value of microbes as probiotics will be explored.
You will see the impact of culture conditions on food preservation and on laboratory-based tests for food safety.
You will culture and qualitatively examine microbes to identify them and will also enumerate these in order to assess risk to human health or product quality.
Additionally, you will also learn other quantitative techniques such as bioassays and estimations of microbial inactivation as in, for example, pasteurisation.
You will consider the frequency and impact of endospore formation in relation to all of these aspects.
Another important and exciting facet of the course will be the rapid detection of microbial products like DNA and antigens using modern molecular analyses rather than traditional culture-based methods.
AP0525 -
Applied and Practical Nutrition (20 Credits)
In this module you will build upon the knowledge and skills you acquired during Fundamental Nutrition and you will also have the opportunity to develop your professional, research and practical skills as there is a strong emphasis on ‘hands-on’ nutrition.
Lectures during this module will include how you interpret and apply basic nutritional guidelines and policies to individuals and groups and the various roles that diet and nutrition can play in disease and in healthy ageing.
The use of dietary surveys and epidemiological studies to identify links between diet and disease and how this evidence is used in nutritional guidance for the public and individuals will also be covered.
You will become aware of the factors influencing dietary intake and barriers encountered when recommending dietary change.
You will learn about various laboratory techniques used in the nutrition research setting, as well having the opportunity to prepare and evaluate a planned diet for a particular individual determining its worth using your knowledge of dietary guidelines, individual requirements and in-depth dietary analysis skills.
Further practical sessions will develop your research and data analysis skills using experimental data that you have gathered during laboratory and IT sessions.
The practical element of this module will help you to develop your critical evaluation skills and your self-awareness of the professional and research skills required to become a nutritionist.
AP0538 -
Research Methods for Food and Nutrition (Core,20 Credits)
Food science and human nutrition are predominantly practical subjects which require a hands on approach to the development of the essential research skills and methodology required for final year students, in particular the final year ‘capstone’ research project module.
In this module students will learn a lot about how research generally ‘works’ and is conducted and communicated within food science and human nutrition.
The lectures and seminars on the module will introduce topics such as the research ‘heirarchy’, scientific communication and the presentation of research, academic integrity as a keystone in research and also different types of, and approaches to research undertaken within food and nutritional science, both quantitative and qualitative; However, the emphasis of the teaching and learning on this module is practical and most formal scheduled teaching is via workshops and practical classes, so that students will learn via hands on experience and develop a high level of competence.
Subjects will include [i] literature based research methods, so that students develop effective literature search strategies, to search, select and retrieve relevant academic information, and cite it appropriately in support of finding and conclusions [ii] quality assurance and critical reading, so that students can assess published information in terms of the likely validity and reliability of content [iii] constraints applying to the design of valid experiments, such as taking account of likely sources of error, appropriate risk and ethical assessment etc.
to ensure quality of research and safety of both researcher and research subject(s) [iv] graphical and statistical approaches to the interpretation of scientific data and use of hypothesis-testing statistics to assess the significance of experimental results – use of SPSS statistical software [v] an introduction to qualitative methodology, such as survey design and focus grops/ interview techniques and the analysis of data.
This module will give students the opportunity to explore how research works and is communicated within food science and human nutrition, with an overall aim of developing students who are competent junior researchers.
AP0616 -
Biological and Food Sciences Research Project (40 Credits)
AP0617 -
Product Development and Sensory Analysis (Core,20 Credits)
You explore the fundamental theoretical principles of food market research and complement that with processes related to innovation and development of new products in the food industry.
Current and future trends in food production will be explored and practical knowledge gained through a group research project.
You will learn and employ practical skills and techniques pertinent to market research and the development and assessment of new food products.
Theoretical knowledge on food ingredients, food market and consumer drivers will be translated into a practical assignment with the aim to develop innovative products.
You will learn about key theoretical and practical concepts in sensory analysis of foodstuffs and complement that with workshops on data analysis and statistics pertinent to sensory data.
You will gain insights in Good Manufacturing Practice, workflows pertinent to New Product Development teams and practical experience in running product trials.
AP0618 -
Food and Nutrition - Policy and Issues (20 Credits)
In this module you will reflect on current issues in the ever-changing world of food science and nutrition.
The pace of development and change in the field will mean that the syllabus will change, evolve and respond to contemporary issues.
The module will identify the scope of food policy, and assess who influences policy, inter-relationships and the dynamics that shape policy.
It will allow you to understand and evaluate what is meant by policy in the food system, from farm to fork, and introduce major themes and key thinkers in food policy.
The module will explore issues which impact at a global level, from Millennium Development Goals to environmental effect of food waste.
You will review and assess current policies and develop your awareness of the following aspects: Policy making process(es) Policy in the UK, EU and world-wide Food policy Public health policy Political influence The module will increase your understanding of major trends in a consumer driven food system to include, economic and social factors across the wide spectrum of consumer groups.
The emphasis of this aspect of the module will be in developing your on-going inquiry into the issues which will impact the food industry,  public health provision and consumers.
The module will also support consideration of the role of the media in communicating information of this type to the population.
AP0619 -
Food Quality and Safety (Optional,20 Credits)
You will learn the principles and practices involved in the maintenance of quality and safety within the food industry.
You will learn about key food safety and quality principles such as traceability, hazards and allergens, labelling, and associated legislation.
You will learn about the concept and value of quality assurance and quality control procedures in the production of food.
You will learn about the systems that underpin modern food production, such as Good Manufacturing Practice and Pre-Requisite Programs.
You will develop an understanding of recognised quality and safety systems such as International Standards Organisation (ISO) and Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP).
You will understand the importance of monitoring, and how to develop and apply an Environmental Monitoring Program.
You will also learn how to apply your theoretical knowledge in the setting up of HACCP systems and prepare and present the documentation associated with HACCP.
You will be able to differentiate between quality assurance and quality control and discuss the importance of quality systems in satisfying the requirements of both legislation and the needs of the consumer.
You will understand evaluation of food safety standards and auditing.
AP0620 -
Food Processing and Preservation (Optional,20 Credits)
You will learn the principles and practices involved in the food processing with emphasis to food preservation.
Food processing operations are central to food quality, safety and product shelf life and via participation in the module you will learn about the relationship between processes and product quality and safety as well as appreciate how food processing may change the organoleptic and nutritional characteristics of food substances in addition to the effects on storage life.
You will learn the principles and applications of the most frequently used food processing operations within the food industry such as freezing drying and thermal processing i.e.
pasteurisation and sterilization.
You will be introduced in more advanced food processing operations such as membrane processing, high pressure processing and ohmic heating.
These novel food processes are securing significant product quality improvements over conventional methods and thus have already found their way into food industry practises.
The module is designed to enable you understand the combined effects of ingredients and processing on the quality of processed products and teach you how to apply knowledge of micro-organisms to an understanding of the principles of food preservation.
You will also learn how to conduct numerical calculations needed to understand the basis of processes and use necessary numerical calculations and/or formulae and graphical methods to assess the efficiency of a process.
AP0622 -
Investigative Sport and Exercise Nutrition (20 Credits)
This module is designed to develop an understanding of the principles and applications of nutritional interventions in the context of sport and exercise performance and health outcomes.
You will learn about the scientific evidence behind health claims associated with dietary interventions, the use of ergogenic aids and other supplementation through critical evaluation.
You will learn about the effects and detection of drugs and doping agents within sport.
In addition, the role of the nutritionist in practice will be reviewed in accordance with external guidelines/codes of conduct for nutrition professionals.
AP0640 -
Clinical Nutrition (Optional,20 Credits)
This module is designed to develop an understanding of the principles of clinical nutrition, dietary intervention and treatment strategies.
You will learn about the biochemical basis of a range of disorders that are encountered in nutrition or related practice.
You will learn about how to assess nutritional status using anthropometric, clinical and biochemical data and how these relate to case studies and nutrition-related to disease.
You will learn how each clinical or metabolic disorder influences nutritional status, and the underlying metabolic complications that cause these conditions will be highlighted.
You will learn about the principles of nutrition, dietary management and control in the clinical environment.
You will learn how clinical conditions can influence nutritional status and how these conditions are treated through adequate nutrition.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/food-science-and-nutrition-uusfsu1:
UCAS Code BD46
EXPLORING AND EXPLOITING MICROBIAL DIVERSITY
NUTRITION AND FOOD
Applicants will need Grade B in an A-level Science, Food Technology, Home Economics, or a recognised equivalent.
International applicants should have a minimum overall IELTS (Academic) score of 6.5 with no component below 6.0.
Students will conduct a 4 week placement as part of one of their second year module.
This may lead to a £30 week travel costs on average.
Additionally, students taking the Human Nutrition pathway will be encouraged to join the UK Voluntary Register of Nutritionists (UKVRN - this is optional) as a Registered Associate Nutritionist.
The cost of this from an accredited programme via direct entry fees can be found on Association for Nutrition website.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-football-coaching-and-performance-extended-degree-uusxbc1:
Z070
Dive into the world of football coaching and performance with this dynamic course.
The aim of this course is to arm you with the expertise needed to work with players at every stage of their journey.
By blending the art and science of coaching and performance, you can gain the tools to inspire and develop the next generation of football stars.
This course offers the opportunity to gain practical coaching experience, reflect on your own coaching methods, evaluate performance, and develop critical thinking skills.
Our experienced staff bring current research trends in football coaching and performance, helping you gain insights into professional practice and acquire valuable transferable skills for your career.
The curriculum ensures you are prepared for a wide range of opportunities in the sports industry, whether in football coaching, enterprise, or further study.
It includes a foundation year where you will explore a wide range of specialisms to foster your basic understanding and knowledge of key principles and professions within sports disciplines.
The foundation year of this course will allow you to gain knowledge and competence in key themes within sport.
You will learn about the different facets of sport and foster a basic understanding and knowledge of key principles and professions within sports disciplines.
You will have the opportunity to work on real-world examples to examine existing sport related projects and case studies, as well as the opportunity to undertake volunteering and experience a range of practical sports.
*Depending on your level of experience you may be required to have a discussion with a member of academic staff to provide more information.
Applicants currently undertaking the introduction to football coaching course are eligible to apply but must hold the qualification at the point of commencing the programme.
SP3008 -
Essential Skills for Studying Sport (Core,20 Credits)
This module will aim to introduce you to the importance of personal and academic development skills that are essential for your programme of study.
The skills developed in this module will help you to succeed in all modules on the programme.
Topics such as searching for and understanding literature, learning how to be an independent student, essay writing, referencing, and presentation skills will be covered.
For the assessment, you will complete a workbook.
The workbook will be aligned to seminar and lecture activities.
You will complete tasks linked to study skills that will facilitate your personal and academic development.
You will be expected to draw upon current theory and consider the impact of this issue within a sport context.
SP3009 -
Sport Foundation Year Project (Core,20 Credits)
This module is designed to build on the academic skills you developed in the Essential Skills for Studying Sport module.
In particular, this module provides you with the opportunity to further enhance your writing, logical thinking and research skills.
You will use this module to identify and explore key areas linked to sport and your future undergraduate sport programme of study using an evidence-based learning approach.
This module will be centred on real-world examples, where you will examine an existing sport related project/case study.
The project will be examined from a multi-disciplinary perspective (i.e., aligned to sports coaching, sport science and sport management,) allowing you to understand the complex and integrated nature of sport.
SP3010 -
Innovations in Sport (Core,20 Credits)
The quest for the elusive edge, global reach and market competitiveness is increasingly driving innovations in the sporting industry.
The Innovations in Sport module enables you to explore the development and role of innovations in transforming contemporary sports and the sporting industry.
You will cover a number of innovations across this module aligned to sports coaching, sport science, sport management, sport nutrition, sport development and many more.
In doing so, you will also consider some of the contemporary issues and ethical dilemmas related to the use of various innovations in sport and their implications for different stakeholders (e.g., athletes, coaches, referees, sport scientists, etc).
This interdisciplinary approach allows the module to have global reach and engages you in thinking around the ethical implications of adopting and using various innovations within their professional context.
SP3011 -
Volunteering in Sport (Core,20 Credits)
In the sport industry the recruitment, management and retention of volunteers is a key human resource management concern for sport events, clubs and increasingly, facilities.
Research points to the importance of satisfying volunteers.
Whilst there is a considerable societal and economic value to sport volunteering activity, there can be personal benefits to the volunteer.
There is an increasing interest in ensuring that volunteers have an enjoyable and meaningful experience, that the volunteering population grows and that people from more diverse backgrounds are encouraged into sport volunteering.
This module is therefore designed for you to explore the theoretical and applied aspects of volunteering in sport.
You will be provided with the knowledge and understanding of how sport volunteering is conceptualised in the United Kingdom.
This will include the meaning and understanding of sport volunteering, who volunteers and why, the patterns of volunteering and changes over time in the U.K.
You will also be provided with some contrasting perspective with how sport volunteering operates in other countries.
The module will focus on the concept of the volunteer, volunteer work and the volunteer experience in sport.
However, we will briefly touch on the recruitment and management of volunteers and the legacy and impact of particular types of sport volunteering i.e., for events.
SP3012 -
Sport, Exercise and Performance (Core,20 Credits)
Sport and exercise scientists use their wide-ranging knowledge and expertise to support individuals participating in sport and exercise settings.
‘Sport, Exercise and Performance’ will give you an insight into the real-world application of sport and exercise science.
You will learn about the core disciplines of physiology, biomechanics, nutrition, and psychology, and how sport and exercise scientists use the combination of these approaches in their work.
On this module, you will gain theoretical knowledge as well as developing your practical laboratory skills in Northumbria’s state of the art, BASES accredited laboratories, an exciting and stimulating place to learn.
SP3013 -
Contemporary Issues in Sport (Core,20 Credits)
This module is designed for you to explore contemporary and relevant issues that exist in today’s sporting domains.
You will be taught about pertinent issues using a multi-disciplinary, case study approach.
Therefore, each issue will be examined from various discipline perspectives (i.e., from a sport coaching, sport management, and/or a sport science perspective) allowing you to understand the complex nature of sport and consider issues using multiple lenses.
This module will also develop your awareness and understanding of how sport continually develops and evolves over time.
JG5001 -
Academic Language Skills for Sport Exercise and Rehabilitation (Core – for International and EU students only,0 Credits)
SP4000 -
Academic and Professional Skills (Core,20 Credits)
The aim of the Academic and Professional Skills module is to develop your knowledge, understanding and application of academic, personal and professional skills relevant to university graduates which will help you to successfully complete your degree programme.
Both formal and informal techniques will be used to assess your development in key areas such as written communication, critical analysis and self-reflection.
You will develop a range of general transferable skills useful for other modules throughout your programme, including knowing how to find appropriate literature to support your ideas and how to develop balanced arguments.
The information you will learn will be linked to topics of interest to those working in the areas of sport, exercise and rehabilitation, giving you insight into these fields as potential career paths in addition to more general employability skills such as communication, digital fluency and time management.
SP4003 -
Introduction to Research (Core,20 Credits)
This module will introduce you to research in relation to sport, exercise and rehabilitation.
The module will guide you through the research process involved in generating new information via scientific methods.
The module will provide both a theoretical and practical introduction to basic experimental approaches, data analysis techniques and report writing, and demonstrate the usefulness and limitations of research-generated information.
You will gain an understanding of fundamental concepts and principles of conducting research and interpreting the findings.
You will learn about the research process (e.g., developing a research question and ethical considerations) and be introduced to the scientific method such as the basic concepts of planning, collecting, organising, and analysing data and report-writing in sport, exercise and rehabilitation.
Learning materials will be delivered via interactive lectures, hands-on workshops, directed tasks and independent study.
You will learn the basics about managing, analysing and interpreting data in practical-computer-lab workshops comprising the quantitative method of enquiry.
You will also be introduced to basic methods of working with data from interviews and focus groups comprising the qualitative method of enquiry.
For each of the methods, you will learn to identify when it is suitable to use; how to run the analysis; how to report its findings to experts and lay people; and how to use these findings to inform your critical judgement about your own research and that of others.
SP4006 -
Introduction to Sports Coaching (Core,20 Credits)
This module aims to help students develop an understanding of the fundamental knowledge and skills of effective coaching.
The module will examine coaching practice in relation to current theories and models associated with effective coaching.
You will be given an opportunity to gain practical coaching experience and observe coaches in action within this module.
SP4009 -
Social Issues and Sport Consumers (Core,20 Credits)
This module is centred on two important and interrelated areas.
First, we examine the modern make-up of sport across all levels and track key changes in sport organisations occurring due to changes in the way that we live and work in modern society.
For example, we will investigate issues including (but not limited to) commercialisation and globalisation, modern consumption practices, celebrity and stardom, neoliberalism and corruption.
Second, we will explore the benefits and drawbacks, winners and losers, accepters and resisters to these social movements manifest in sport.
To do this, we look at myriad definitions of the sport consumer and sport stakeholders.
We will examine who benefits from sport’s current organisation and what are some of the costs (e.g.
social, human, economic) of such practices.
SP4014 -
Introduction to Football Science (Core,20 Credits)
The nature of football coaching is changing, and current coaches are required to possess a holistic understanding of all elements which impact performance.
You will study key sport science principles in order to appreciate the role that science has  in current practices in football.
It is imperative that you are developing evidence-based practices, and this module provides you with the knowledge to create a rationale for your football coaching methods by understanding how the body responds to, and fuels exercise, as well as its limitations.
You will develop an understanding of the fundamental concepts of sport science, which are directly relevant to football.
Furthermore, the application of these concepts will be outlined to illustrate the interdisciplinary nature of the football coaching process.
SP4015 -
Football Accreditation Preparation (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will consider key industry knowledge and practices aligned with community and professional football coaching.
You will be widely introduced to The FA’s 4 corner module (i.e., Technical/Tactical, Physical, Sociological, Psychological) and encouraged to explore how this model supports player development, coach delivery and coach development.
Crucially, this module will also seek to develop your ‘on the pitch’ coaching practice.
Notionally, and broadly, you will consider: •	Understanding players and their game •	Helping players learn football through practice •	Helping players learn football through matchday This module will enhance your preparation for future football coaching opportunities/qualifications and support your continued engagement with experiential learning opportunities throughout your programme of study.
SP5026 -
Research Design and Analysis (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will learn how to apply the systematic-scientific method to address problems of relevance to your discipline.
The module will guide you through designing, conducting, analysing and presenting your own research findings and prepare you for carrying out an independent research project.
The module will provide both a theoretical and practical perspective on the research process, with a focus towards understanding the usefulness and limitations of research-generated information.
SP5029 -
SER Professional Development and Practice (Core,20 Credits)
The main focus of the module is work, or career, specific learning.
It encourages you to develop independence and to take responsibility for your own career-relevant skill development.
This process is supplemented by the inclusion of generic lectures, workshops, associated directed learning tasks and individual tutorial support.
The generic lectures will provide you with the knowledge necessary to allow you to capitalise upon this Continuing Professional Development (CPD) opportunity.
Workshops and directed tasks will allow for the development of essential self-reflection skills.
Generic lecture and workshop topics include: · Self-reflection and SMART analysis and Key Skills exercises to establish your development needs as a Practitioner in Sport and Exercise.
· Creating a CPD contract and CPD Portfolio · Identifying appropriate CPD opportunities to enhance your degree related expertise and aspirations Once you have written your SMART / Key Skills analysis and CPD contract you will then be able to identify a number of potential CPD opportunities in the form of short courses, workshops, and coaching awards.
Many of the skills and abilities you will learn will be of value to your life-long learning aspirations.
Potential CPD Opportunities may include: · Volunteering / working in a sport and exercise environment · Working in a PE context · Shadowing a professional in the workplace · Writing business plans · Writing grant applications · Attendance at conferences, workshops, courses.
Regular contact is maintained between you and your supervisor in order to ensure that you are supported throughout the module.
SP5039 -
Coaching Skills and Practice (Core,20 Credits)
This practically oriented module will focus upon the application of research informed approaches to coaching that promote conditions for optimal learning and motivation across different sport coaching contexts.
Coaching Skills and Practice builds upon the knowledge, skills and applied experiences gained at Level 4 to develop a research rich understanding of key pedagogical principles (e.g., coaching behaviours, practice design) that can be applied to create progressive, engaging and transferable outcomes in different sport coaching contexts.
This module aims to introduce the concepts of how to create motivational climates (e.g., self-determination theory) that meet group/individual needs to positively influence engagement, motivation and well-being in sport.
In addition, this module will develop an understanding of applied skill acquisition research that can be used to create conditions for optimal learning, and transfer of skill to different applied sport coaching contexts (e.g., high performance, participation, special populations).
SP5044 -
Sport Coaching Pedagogy (Core,20 Credits)
This practically oriented module will focus upon the application of pedagogical research to sport coaching that promote the co-construction of knowledge, effective relationships and ethical practice across a variety of sport coaching contexts.
The module therefore complements the largely cognitive based approaches to sport coaching practice included in SP5039: Coaching Skills and Practice and builds upon pre-existing knowledge from SP4008: Introduction to Coaching to equip students with an adaptive tool-kit of coaching behaviours.
Due the experiential learning emphasis of this module, students will also be able to expand upon the real-world experience derived from their placement module (SP5029: SER Professional Development and Practice).
A central aspect of Sport Coaching Pedagogy is to develop a deep and nuanced understanding key pedagogical research (e.g., constructivist, socio-constructivist) and their application to real world sport coaching contexts.
By the end of this module, students will be able to demonstrate and explain how specific pedagogical approaches apply across different sport coaching contexts.
SP5045 -
Football Organisational Leadership (Core,20 Credits)
This module will enable you to develop an in-depth understanding of football organisational leadership and stakeholder management.
The module will broadly consider leadership, organisational behaviour, stakeholder management and internal decision making within football and with some reference across multiple sports settings.
These will be explored through varying socio-cultural and/or socio/political lenses amongst others.
Some typical sample case studies include The FA, working within elite football clubs (e.g., premier league), managing external relationships across the football landscape (e.g., managing EPPP systems).
Beyond this, we will examine how leaders build organisational culture and integrity, and how leaders nurture their wider multidisciplinary teams.
We will underpin discussions with recognition of the contextual challenges (both within football, elite sport generally and wider sporting discourses) and opportunities that football leaders are tasked with navigating.
SP5046 -
Football Science Assessment and Analysis (Core,20 Credits)
This module is designed to provide you with the knowledge and understanding to work as an evidence-based practitioner in football, to develop the skills to assess footballers beyond the traditional technical and tactical components.
Optimal football performance requires coaches to possess a holistic understanding of all elements, which impacts player development.
You should be aware of the underpinning science as well as assessment and analysis methods, utilising a multidisciplinary approach to assess player performance to inform practice.
The module covers the main principles that underlie many of the current practices of measurement and assessment within sport science, with the underlying principles associated with various testing procedures will be analysed and discussed.
You will be provided with an opportunity to develop knowledge of how these principles can be applied within football coaching planning and preparation.
SP5024 -
Sport Study Abroad Year (Optional,120 Credits)
Note: This is a competitive process and a place on the module cannot be guaranteed.
SP5043 -
Sport, Exercise and Rehabilitation Work Placement Year (Optional,120 Credits)
The Work Placement Year module is a full year 120 credit module available on degree courses which include a work placement year which is taken as an additional year of study between levels 5 and 6 (the length of the placement will be determined by your programme but it can be no less than 30 weeks and no more than 52 weeks).
The learning and teaching on your placement will be recorded in the training agreement signed by the placement provider, the student, and the home University (Northumbria).
SP6035 -
SER UG Project (Core,40 Credits)
The module aims to develop your skills of independent working by engaging with a topic of your own choosing.
You will develop a critical and in-depth knowledge of a specific area (within the remit of your degree programme) in relation to a research or clinical problem of contemporary relevance to the industry/profession.
You will learn aspects of research such as literature searching, filtering and quality assessment, project design considerations, ethical implications and data analysis methods.
You will develop skills such as time management, contingency planning and critical thinking to produce a well-planned, coherent and ethical project.
SP6043 -
Talent Identification and High-Performance Sport (Core,20 Credits)
This module is designed for students to critically analyse the skills required to coach and nurture athletic talent at a high-performance level.
The module will critique contemporary long term athlete development models, pathways and their impact on performance, long term participation and well-being.
Students will also critically examine what is meant by the term talent, identify the skills and competencies needed to coach and develop in a high-performance setting, investigate the difficulties a high-performance coach may encounter and provide potential solutions to maximise effective coaching practice.
SP6049 -
Advanced Coaching Practice (Core,20 Credits)
This module will explore the pedagogical principles and practices underpinning sports coaching.
Specifically, the module will focus upon the application of theoretical and evidence-based approaches to develop coaching practice.
The module aims to provide students with the opportunity to build upon and apply the knowledge, skills and experiences gained at Level 4 and Level 5 to develop a critical, nuanced and theoretically informed understanding of key pedagogical principles applicable across a variety of sport coaching contexts.
Weekly content will be concentrated on the interactive effects of specific coach behaviours, practice design and coach-player interactions to create coaching environments that are conducive to optimal learning, engagement and performance across different sport coaching contexts (e.g., high performance, recreation, development, special populations).
The module will place particular emphasis on developing students practical coaching skills that are informed by current research.
SP6055 -
Application of Football Science (Core,20 Credits)
The Application of Football Science module is designed to allow you to critically apply the principles of training interventions and/or constraints to aid in optimising football performance.
You will have the opportunity to develop analytical, enquiry and reflective practice skills through an interdisciplinary approach.
You will study the adaptations and limitations to performance, using football-relevant scientific principles.
On completion of a successful module, you will be capable of critically analysing current training techniques/methods and be able to plan an evidenced-based, interdisciplinary, periodised training programme, accounting for all facets of football performance.
Using state-of-the-art facilities, you will develop applied intervention skills with a range of interdisciplinary techniques, to further develop your knowledge and understanding of a holistic approach to optimising football performance.
SP6056 -
Enhancing Coaching Craft (Core,20 Credits)
This module aims to enhance your coaching craft through a thorough critical and reflective analysis of evidence-informed coaching strategies and actions designed to enhance coach and athlete performance in areas such as wellbeing, engagement and thriving.
The module builds on the foundational psycho-social theories of coaching outlined in SP5039: Coaching Skills and Practice to build a deeper and richer contextual appreciation of the specific coaching strategies and actions that influence performance in athletes and coaches alike.
You will have the opportunity to reflect upon current and past practice and critically evaluate coaching research to develop an adaptive toolkit of coaching strategies and actions aimed at enhancing athlete and coach experiences of sport.
By the end of this module, you will be able to critically evaluate, discuss and apply evidence based coaching behaviours aimed at improving athlete and coach performance in sport.
Throughout the course, you can engage with industry professionals, alumni, and employers to gain a deeper understanding of contemporary football coaching and performance.
Volunteering and internship opportunities with partners like Newcastle United FC, Sunderland AFC, and Middlesborough FC give you real-world experience in coaching, performance analysis, and talent identification.
You may also complete work placements to further develop key career competencies.
Our staff offer you a practitioners perspective, backed by years of real-world experience.
Having worked with organisations like the FA, FIFA as well as Rugby Football Union and British Rowing, they deliver cutting-edge research and practical insights, blending academic skills with high-level coaching knowledge for a well-rounded and practical learning experience.
Dr Reece Chapman
Dr Marc Briggs
Andy Coyles
Dr Tom Macpherson
Based at our city centre campus you can take advantage of Sport Central, our £30 million-pound sports building.
Only a short commute away is our Coach Lane Campus, there you’ll also have access to purpose-built facilities including a full-size rubber crumb pitch and training ground, four expansive grass training pitches and a match pitch complete with fully enclosed stands and floodlights for an authentic stadium experience.
In a city known for its sporting excellence, you can immerse yourself in a community with strong ties to nationally and internationally recognised sports organisations.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-football-coaching-and-performance-uusfbc1:
FC26
To find out more, review our Northumbria Entry Requirement Essential Information page for further details: www.northumbria.ac.uk/entryrequirementsinfo

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/forensic-accounting-dtffra6:
Whether you have an accounting undergraduate background or not, this course looks at areas such as the nature, regulation and policing of financial crimes in the UK.
In particular, it focuses on the prevention and detection of fraud in organisations and examines corporate governance, internal controls and accounting techniques.
This literature-based masters involves both qualitative and quantitative study.
It will introduce you to the skills needed in the role of forensic accounting, including people skills and emotional intelligence.
‘Forensic’ means suitable for use in court, and you’ll consider this and other roles undertaken by forensic accountants.
You will study the law and regulation of financial crimes such as money laundering, bribery and corruption.
You will also examine occupational fraud, financial statement fraud and methods of prevention, detection and investigation.
Each year we invite practitioners to speak and provide practical insight into the world of financial crime and forensic accountants.
Why choose Northumbria to study Forensic Accounting MSc?
Teaching is backed up by a well-designed support system that helps ensure a successful learning journey.
We make sure that extensive feedback, from both tutors and peers, is built into the course.
Assessment methods include assignments, exams, and presentations, the majority of which are literature based rather than numerical.
Your master’s dissertation will form a major part of the assessment and there may be the opportunity to conduct quantitative research as part of your dissertation.
You will be part of a select group of business schools worldwide, following accreditation by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) in business and accounting – the first in Europe to gain the double accreditation.
Founded in 1916, AACSB International is the longest serving global accrediting body for business schools that offer undergraduate, Masters, and doctoral degrees in business and accounting.
Throughout the course, you’ll be an active participant in the on-going research agenda that’s at the heart of Newcastle Business School.
With conferences and research events regularly taking place, and with staff discussing their own research as it relates to the topics you’ll study, there’s a strong emphasis on engaging in up-to-date enquiry-based learning.
If you choose to continue your studies to doctorate level, your experience of postgraduate research will provide an excellent foundation.
This course is also a way of taking first steps in being able to work towards professional body examinations such as that provided by the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners.
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree in business, or a discipline with a quantitative element.
AF7000 -
Forensic Accounting (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will explore various aspects of financial crime through the lens of forensic accounting The module aims to: Develop a specific body of knowledge of the modalities used to prove financial crimes Assess and apply accounting techniques to evaluate data in financial crime investigations Manage forensic investigations into financial crime
AF7001 -
Fraud Examination (Core,20 Credits)
The module will cover all of the major methods employees use to commit occupational fraud.
At the end of this module you will- Critically evaluate the nature and extent of occupational fraud - Develop knowledge of various fraud schemes - Develop the knowledge and skills to assess how to combat such fraudulent conduct
AF7002 -
Fraudulent Statement  Analysis (Core,20 Credits)
Fraudulent financial statement:  you will be able to analyse a financial statements to verify if it is in line with international accounting standards).
You will also learn about current and historical examples of financial statement frauds.
Finally, you will learn how to detect and prevent financial statement fraud.
AF7003 -
Financial Crime: Law and Regulation (Core,20 Credits)
Financial crimes such as money laundering, terrorist finance, corruption and bribery are the focus of national and international collaborative efforts to counter threat to the integrity of national and international financial markets and system.
Emphasis is placed upon international and national legal and regulatory frameworks to combat financial crime.
Thus, in addition to examining the national regulatory environment (with emphasis on the UK) it is important to be aware of the role and influence of major international bodies and institutions such as the FATF, Egmont and Basle.
The module will enable you to develop your knowledge and critical understanding of the frameworks in place for the prevention, detection and investigation of these three interrelated areas.
Specifically the module aims to: 1.
Develop a critical understanding of financial crimes, their typologies and the legal and regulatory framework underpinning their prevention.
Develop a critical understanding of the ethical and practical implications for individuals, institutions and society arising from investigation, prevention and detection of financial crimes such as money laundering, terrorist finance, bribery and corruption.
In this module, you will learn: The definition, characteristics and effects of financial crimes such  money laundering, corruption and bribery National and international legal and regulatory requirements related to  the combating of financial crime Role and responsibilities regulators and regulated entities Schemes used to commit financial crimes Issues arising from the prosecuting of financial crime

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-forensic-psychology-dtffsy6:
1 year Full Time 1 other options available
Psychology
First entry on this course is September 2026.
Click the apply now button above to register your interest and be notified when applications open.
The MSc Forensic Psychology course offers an in-depth exploration of the field, blending theoretical foundations with practical application in a criminal justice context.
This course is available as both full time and part time pathways.
You can gain insight from experienced practitioners and researchers, with a focus on psychological aspects of offending behaviour and how the legal system functions.
Innovative assessments and reflective practice, enable you to develop critical employability skills.
Throughout the course you will explore the psychological underpinnings of criminal behaviour with topics including why people commit crime, how people in prison are assessed by psychologists, treatment and interventions for people who commit crime, contemporary issues and challenges within the Criminal Justice System, police investigation and working with vulnerable victims and witnesses in court.
This course will appeal to those aspiring to work in forensic psychology in settings such as prisons and secure hospitals, as well as those interested in working in related disciplines such as the Probation Service, the police and in mental health.
See other similar courses you may be interested in: Psychology MSc
A minimum of a 2:1 honours degree in Psychology (or MSc equivalent).
Additional Information:
Applicants who have completed their degree within the UK are required to provide written proof of GBC/GBR status from their UK University.
All applicants who have completed their first degree outside the UK are required to apply to the BPS for consideration of GBC/GBR.
Written confirmation of GBC/GBR will be required.
Please bear in mind that this process can take a considerable amount of time and relevant applicants should contact the BPS as soon as possible.
Throughout this course, you will be introduced to relevant psychological theory, such as theories of criminal behaviour.
You will also learn about the key skills and competencies required for working as a practitioner forensic psychologist, including forensic assessment, engaging in reflective practice and consultancy projects.
Additionally, you will learn about the legal and investigative process, including what happens within the court room.
You will have the opportunity to consider contemporary issues and challenges within the discipline and the Criminal Justice System more broadly, whilst reflecting on how forensic psychology can be applied to identify real world solutions.
PY0774 -
Qualitative and Quantitative Methods (20 Credits)
The module is designed to give you a theoretical and practical knowledge of common and more advanced quantitative and qualitative methods of collecting and analysing data in psychology.
A range of methods will be studied, and relevant hardware and software will be used in exercises.
The communication of findings according to the most recent conventions and with due regard to the audience will be addressed.
The approach is to provide a theoretical background for each technique, so that you are not simply capable of carrying out and reporting analyses, but also capable of reflecting critically on their appropriateness in psychological research and practice.
PY0776 -
MSc Thesis (60 Credits)
In this module, you will be able to independently conceptualise, plan and undertake a novel piece of research that contributes to psychological knowledge and understanding.
You will critically evaluate current theories and evidence to generate your own research question.
You will use the relevant ethical guidelines to design a feasible project plan.
You will develop your independent research skills during this module and identify points of collaboration with supervisors, research staff and other potential stakeholders.
You will use a variety of relevant skills, techniques, and research methods to implement your study and finally, you will have the opportunity to disseminate your findings in written form.
PY7006 -
Forensic Psychology Practice (20 Credits)
You will learn about the core competencies underpinning practice as a forensic psychologist, including training, consultancy, policy development, supervision and expert witness work across a range of settings and with a range of client groups, through drawing upon the latest psychological research and theory.
You will learn about the role of forensic psychologists in the private and public sectors and about the importance of self-care.
You will also be taught skills in reflective practice and you will have the opportunity to learn about career progression as a forensic psychologist, including the different routes to qualification.
This module will have a strong global focus – thus meeting the needs of our international students - by addressing variations in forensic practice throughout the world, for instance, by considering how ethical challenges may vary across different countries and cultures.
You will be taught about the qualification routes in different countries/ continents, including Europe and Australasia.
For example, you will learn about the European Federation of Psychologists’ Associations (EFPA) and its role in promoting multi and interculturalism in psychology, as well as workforce mobility across Europe and beyond.
Lastly, you will be introduced to the benefits of BPS Membership.
Indicative topics may include: •	Understanding the work of forensic psychologists in a training and consultancy capacity •	An introduction to how forensic psychologists play a role in the development, implementation and evaluation of policy •	Considering the routes to training as a forensic psychologist, as well as the importance of professional registration •	Exploring how the role of forensic psychologists is shaped by ethical, legal and practical frameworks and specific considerations when working in private practice •	Learning about the theory of reflective practice and developing skills in reflective practice •	Practising as a forensic psychologist internationally This module has been designed to align with British Psychological Society (BPS) curriculum and core standards.
The assessment for this module will require you to draw upon psychological theory and research and to communicate effectively in an engaging and thought-provoking way.
This will assist you in developing skills in professional communication.
PY7007 -
Investigative and Legal Psychology (20 Credits)
You will learn how psychology has informed the development of the Criminal Justice System (CJS) in England and Wales and how individuals progress through from investigation to trial.
You will also learn about the Civil Court System (CCS).
Key concepts throughout each stage of the court system will be explored and critically evaluated, and the role of psychology and theoretical understanding will be applied to help develop knowledge.
You will also have the opportunity to compare and contrast practices in England and Wales with others across the globe, therefore introducing you to international perspectives.
Indicative topics may include: •	Consideration of the overall structures of the CCS and CJS •	Examining how individuals enter the CJS and how vulnerability can be identified •	Understanding the investigative practices for victims, eyewitnesses, and suspects with a critical consideration of the role of psychology in eyewitness testimony and police interviewing •	Consideration of multi-disciplinary working with Appropriate Adults, Registered Intermediaries, and other allied professionals •	Understanding the trial process and the role of the expert witness in court •	Understanding similarities and differences in the English/ Welsh legal system when compared to other countries This module has been designed to align with British Psychological Society (BPS) curriculum and core standards.
The assessment for this module requires the application of theoretical and research knowledge in the critical consideration of a case study within the role of an expert witness.
This is designed to help assist you in developing your communication skills and reflective practice.
PY7008 -
Assessment and Treatment in Forensic Psychology (20 Credits)
You will learn how psychology has informed the development of assessment and treatment approaches in forensic psychology.
You will initially be introduced to how risk is defined and why it is such an important concept in the discipline.
You will also learn how risk assessment practice has evolved over time from first generation tools to the current fourth generation approach.
You will be introduced to a range of treatment approaches.
Indicative topics may include: •	Risk and the importance of risk in forensic psychology.
•	The evolution of risk assessment in forensic psychology.
•	Static and dynamic risk factors.
•	Protective factors and why they are now seen as a vital part of a forensic assessment.
•	Dynamic risk assessment tools for different forms of offending and their evaluation.
•	How forensic treatment has evolved to the point of current and common treatment approaches, and how treatment is evaluated.
This module has been designed to align with British Psychological Society (BPS) curriculum and core standards.
The assessment for this module requires the application of theoretical and research knowledge as well as working knowledge of a risk assessment tool based on a fictional case study.
This is designed to help assist you in developing your practical forensic skills, communication skills and reflective practice.
PY7009 -
Forensic Psychology Theory (20 Credits)
This module will introduce you to the core psychological theories and research which underpin forensic psychology.
This will include biological, sociological, psycho-social, cognitive, and developmental perspectives on why people commit crime, as well as those which address victimology and practice within the courtroom.
You will learn the importance of critically evaluating theories of crime, their relevance to processes in the Criminal Justice System (CJS) and how they apply to forensic psychology practice in an ethical, legal, and professional manner.
The module will also explore public perceptions of criminal behaviour and how this is influenced by the media.
Additionally, you will be introduced to the complex relationship between mental health and crime.
You will be taught by leading academics and practitioners in the field using contemporary research findings and the most up-to-date theoretical perspectives, as well as understanding the connection between the two.
You will be encouraged to critically reflect upon and synthesise information and you will be encouraged to demonstrate effective verbal and non-verbal communication, as well as reflective skills.
PY7010 -
Contemporary Issues in Forensic Psychology (20 Credits)
You will learn how contemporary issues impact upon the Criminal Justice System (CJS).
You will be introduced to real-life case studies and how they have influenced practice within forensic psychology considering a range of settings and client groups.
You will learn about current topics and challenges that reflect, and relate to, the current societal and political landscape, which you will consider by applying forensic psychological principles, theory and research to develop understanding and skills in critical evaluation.
This module will introduce you to international perspectives by examining current practices and challenges worldwide, and how these have influenced the way the legal systems function in other countries.
Indicative topics may include: •	The role of the police and how they are perceived by the public, drawing on recent high profile news stories such as the Sarah Everard case and other cases of police misconduct.
•	Recent changes in sentencing and parole board practice, for example the IPP sentence which has now been abolished.
•	Recent political challenges, for instance, issues with prison overcrowding and how this is being managed.
•	The role of technology in crime and forensic psychological practice, including AI and virtual reality.
•	Cultural issues and minority groups, including the LGBTQ+ community in prison and other forensic settings.
•	Other emerging challenges pertinent to forensic psychology.
•	International perspectives on contemporary issues.
The assessment for this module requires the application of theoretical and research knowledge of two chosen contemporary issues.
This is designed to help assist you in developing your awareness of the most up-to-date topics in a sensitive and ethical manner, as well as your communication skills and reflective practice.
The MSc Forensic Psychology course is designed to enhance your employability by equipping you with transferable skills such as problem-solving, communication, critical evaluation, and time management.
You’ll have opportunities for networking with professionals through external collaborations with experts in the field and access to career guidance.
Completion of an MSc in Forensic Psychology could be useful for a range of careers within the Criminal Justice System.
You’ll be taught by leading academics and active researchers in forensic psychology, bringing cutting-edge knowledge to the course.
The staff’s expertise spans a variety of areas, including His Majesty’s Prison and Probation Service, the National Health Service and the legal system, ensuring you learn from professionals at the forefront of the discipline.
Dr Faye Horsley
Dr Laura Farrugia
You’ll have access to state-of-the-art facilities, including the Experimental Psychology Lab, designed for group work and data collection.
Research equipment such as EEG, eye-tracking, virtual reality, and motion capture can support your thesis and projects.
Online tools like Blackboard provide additional resources, including lecture captures, interactive workshops, and feedback systems, ensuring a comprehensive and supportive learning environment.
These facilities help you apply theoretical knowledge to practical, real-world forensic psychology scenarios.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-forensic-psychology-dtpfsy6:
27 months Part Time 1 other options available
This course is available as both full time and part time pathways.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-forensic-science-extended-degree-uusxrs1:
Are you fascinated by forensic science and its application in criminal investigation?
Are you looking for a career that makes a difference?
Developing fundamental knowledge and skilled laboratory techniques, you will graduate from this course with the ability to tackle complex scientific problems with confidence, skill and maturity.
If you opt to study a Forensic Science university degree at Northumbria you will develop the essential and fundamental skills required to enter the professional world of forensic science.
Tasks, including DNA analysis and trace evidence examination, will be matched with teaching from experienced forensic practitioners, developing your scientific knowledge.
Forensic Science at Northumbria is ranked top 20 in the UK.
(Guardian University League Table, 2025).
Over 91% of students studying Forensic Science at Northumbria believed their course positively challenged them to achieve their best work (NSS, 2025).
See other similar courses you may be interested in: BSc (Hons) Criminology and Forensic Science
UCAS Code Z055
The early stages of the course are designed to give you a solid theoretical and practical grounding in the key science areas applicable to the degree.
This foundation is built on in subsequent years as you develop natural curiosity and critical thinking through experiments and greater independent learning and thought.
You will develop critical thinking skills and the ability to present clearly supported/evidenced opinions as you progress through the course.
Specialism include drugs and toxicology, forensic chemistry, detection of trace evidence, analysis of textile fibres (including transfer and persistence), pathology, data analysis and machine learning, DNA profiling and environmental analysis of chemical effluents and microbial diversity.
They are well-established within professional forensic science societies and organisations, which directly inform policy and practices within the field, and continue to maintain close links with the industry, including the police, and have been involved as consultants in cases of major crimes.
Eleanor Graham
Seth Racey
You will have access to a dedicated crime scene house to enable you to examine simulated crime scenes.
We use a range of technologies to enhance your learning, with tools including web-based self-guided exercises, online tests with feedback, and electronic discussion boards.
These tools support and extend the material that is delivered during lectures.
The forensic teaching team undertake research and
consultancy in diverse and wide ranging areas.
The knowledge gained is embedded
in the teaching on our courses.
Examples of current research areas:
As part of that goal, we host a regular series of invited guest research seminars related to forensic science and it's impact on society.
See all Applied Science research here.
We offer an innovative approach to work-based learning.
The curriculum has been designed for the development of specific subject knowledge and practical skills in forensic science while providing opportunities for personal and professional development.
The valuable transferable skills that you will gain in these modules include critical thinking, effective group work, data mining through use of electronic and classical sources of information, record-keeping, problem solving, independent learning, communication of ideas to various audiences and project management.
This course also provides the opportunity for placements, with some opportunities arising at companies like AzoNobel, P&G, ChemTech Environmental, Sanofi Aventis, National Crime Agency and the Ministry of Justice.
There is also opportunities to study abroad.
Our current alumni are working in roles within the police, forensic science laboratories and analytical chemistry laboratories, as well as in further postgraduate studies.
Visit an Open Day to get insight into what it's like to study Forensic Science.
AP0405 -
Scientific Support (Core,20 Credits)
You will explore the roles of the scientific support personnel and specialist practitioners involved in contemporary forensic investigations, as well as the scientific and technical processes that they may employ.
You will build on your existing knowledge of the importance of undertaking a thorough and conscientious examination of a crime scene and the importance of appropriate detailed recording and the subsequent handling of exhibits in the laboratory within the context of the specialist scientific discipline studied.
You will have the opportunity to apply the theory delivered in lectures to practical work both at our crime scene facility and in the laboratory using simulated crime scenarios.
Throughout this module you will also consider the Forensic Science Regulator quality assurance oversight and the accreditation and validation of processes employed by scientific support personnel and specialist practitioners.
AP0501 -
Your learning on this module will be situated within the ethical, social and legal implications associated with forensic science’s contribution to crime investigation and research.
You will learn how to effectively design, conduct and review academic research – skills that are relevant and transferable to 2nd and final year academic study.
As part of the module you will learn how to: •	effectively search and use e-literacy techniques to enable you to critically analyse academic literature relevant to forensic science and associated disciplines.
•	undertake methods of research (quantitative and/or qualitative) such as experimental data and statistics, interviews, focus groups and observations.
•	effectively communicate your opinions whilst also acknowledging the work of others through appropriate citation and evidence of wider reading.
•	review and consider the requirements and expectations of a scientist to ensure your own research is ethical, safe, peer reviewed and statistically supported.
Your learning will take place within the practice and research of forensic science.
As such, you will be required to demonstrate an appreciation of the differing ethical implications associated with real world crime investigation and the constraints that impact and influence laboratory based and desk-based research.
AP0502 -
Trace Analysis (Core,20 Credits)
Traditional areas of forensic science such as fibres, glass and paint can be overlooked in  forensic investigations despite having strengths that other evidence types, such as DNA, don’t have.
In this module you will develop your understaning of the theory underpinning fibres, glass and paint  and learn how knowledge of their strengths can  can be exploited to solve criminal cases.
You will learn how to apply your knowledge to determine when and how each evidence type may or may not be appropriate in a given case scenario and in doing so develop a case strategy.
Your practical skills will be developed to enable you to search, recover and analyse trace evidence using appropriate techniques.
Armed with hard evidence you will then apply your knowledge within the context of the case scenario to evaluate its significance.
By the end of this module you will have developed  an understanding of the role of trace evidence within forensic investigations, how trace examinations are performed and how to interpret significant findings within the context of a specific case scenario.
AP0505 -
Specialist Applications in Criminal Investigation (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn how the core disciplines of forensic science (biology and chemistry) can be complemented by additional specialisms in a criminal investigation.
You will discover the impact and evaluate the effectiveness of these additional resources on an investigation.
By using case studies you will explore how science and technology has been used to further assist the investigative process from the crime scene through to additional investigative tools and scientific interpretation.
Presentation and communication of scientific evidence in the courtroom will also be evaluated.
Topics may include: •	Digital evidence: e.g.
data recovery from PC/mobile technology/ethical hacking •	Other ‘ologies’ e.g.
pathology, palynology, entomology, archaeology, ecology •	Fire investigation – cremains, application to destruction of evidence •	Surveillance : e.g.
GIS/crime mapping/CCTV/surveillance
AP0600 -
Forensic Science Research Project (Core,40 Credits)
This module comprises the research project for level 6 of the Forensic Science programmes.
It is 40 credit module and aims to utilise your subject specific skills, both in terms of knowledge and laboratory skills, in an area of forensic science that is of interest to you.
You will identify and define a research topic in a chosen field of forensic science, plan a strategy for its implementation (in conjunction with an appointed supervisor) and be responsible for its implementation.
It will engender in you a spirit of enquiry and curiosity in both practical and theoretical aspects of the topic.
You will develop your information retrieval and critical appraisal skills, and encourage and require you to apply knowledge gained in other parts of the academic programme.
AP0602 -
Contemporary Issues in Forensic Science (Optional,20 Credits)
You will learn how scientific strategies associated with crimes and challenges facing the police and criminal justice system are complemented by criminological theory.
You will discover the impact these advancements have upon both society and upon forensic science.
By understanding crime, contemporary policing, prisons and imprisonment within the criminal justice system, crime prevention strategies will be evaluated for their effectiveness for particular crime types.
For example, you will explore current research and innovation strategies that combine innovative science and technological advances with criminological research in response to existing, new and emerging crimes and challenges.
You will address key themes such as: •	Crime/policing – e.g.
the prevention and detection of drugs in society, volume crime, human trafficking •	Security and counter terrorism – e.g.
prevention and detection of terrorism activities (domestic versus international), radicalisation and •	Policing/identity management – e.g.
surveillance in society, crime mapping and the role of biometric identification
AP0604 -
Advanced Analytical Chemistry (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will examine advanced modern techniques for the analysis of a variety of compounds commonly encountered in chemistry and forensic science.
Modern hyphenated separation techniques e.g.
chromatography-mass spectrometry, for separation, identification and quantitation of compounds will be discussed.
New approaches for separation based on ion mobility e.g.
capillary electrophoresis and capillary electro-chromatography will be explained, and the latest advances in in the chemical analysis field will be described using relevant examples.
The syllabus will also focus on modern and advanced spectroscopic techniques for drug identification and analysis, including NMR and MS methods.
Sampling protocols for the detection of drugs and alcohol in body fluids and alternative matrices will be studied as well as strategies and practice in analytical method development for a varietry of different compounds.
AP0642 -
Forensic Biology (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module, you will follow on from the body fluids and BPA and DNA profiling modules introduced at level 5 on this programme, applying the knowledge gained to more complex case-based scenarios and interpreting challenging data, e.g.
complex mixtures.
The limitations of current methodology will be reviewed in detail, including a thorough examination of DNA profile artefacts, analytical thresholds and alternative statistical approaches to data analysis.
In addition to existing methods, you will also be introduced to a range of alternative methods that use different genetic markers including RNA to build a more complete picture of the sample type under examination and the identity of the sample donor.
New materials will introduced in the fields of anthropology and forensic taphonomy to provide a good coverage of methods used in forensic biology.
Key topics covered are listed below: Interpretation of complex DNA profiles, including mixtures The effect of mutation on DNA data, including kinship analysis Genetic tissue identification DNA sequencing applications Genetics of externally visible characteristics Biogeographic ancestry
ML6001 -
Unilang - Languages for All - Level 6 Placeholder (Optional,20 Credits)
The 20-credit yearlong Unilang modules (stages 1 – 5 depending on language) aim to encourage a positive attitude to language learning and to develop and practise the four language skills of speaking, listening, reading and writing introducing the basic/increasingly complex  grammatical structures and vocabulary of the spoken and written language (depending on stage) and developing your ability to respond appropriately in spoken and written form in simple and increasingly complex everyday situations.
In doing this, Unilang modules are intended to encourage and support international mobility; to enhance employability at home and abroad; to improve communication skills in the foreign language and in English as well as cultural awareness.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/forensic-science-uusfrs1:
UCAS Code F410
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Forensic Science.
Applicants will need Grade B in A-Level Biology, Chemistry or Applied Science, or recognised equivalents.
If a student chooses to undertake their research project with an external company, there may be travel costs associated with this.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/forensic-science-dtffrs6:
The course builds on scientific knowledge gained at undergraduate level and extends your understanding into specialist areas.
You will gain knowledge and scientific skills that are directly applicable to the field of forensic science.
This course creates prospects of employment in forensic science laboratories as well as in other analytical science labs.
A high level of practical laboratory experience develops competency and professionalism, together with team working, dexterity, and numeracy.
Academic knowledge and intellectual curiosity are promoted throughout, driving engaged students to achieve at their highest level.
This Masters course involves a unique combination of forensic chemistry and forensic biology.
It covers subjects such as trace evidence, toxicology and DNA analysis.
We will continue to offer our new students a range of mock casework and research projects.
This will challenge your investigative and research skills and encourage growth in expertise as a forensic scientist.
You will undertake a crime scene assessment; examine, analyse, and interpret evidence; produce a court report, and present an oral testimony in a mock court.
You will additionally pursue a three-month research project in a specialist area in forensic science.
These will shape you as a forensic scientist and build your confidence as a valuable professional.
Your research will be supervised by the most appropriate of our inspirational staff, most of whom have extensive experience in practice.
They’ve been involved in high profile cases such as the Stephen Lawrence, Joanna Yeates, Suffolk strangler and Jigsaw murder cases.
Our facilities are exceptional and include a dedicated crime scene house to enable you to examine simulated crime scenes.
Research Powerhouse: Our research environment is rated 100% world-leading 4* (REF, 2021).
The course is accredited by the Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences , which enhances its credibility and currency among potential employers.
Hear from our students on their experience of studying Forensic Science, and what some of your learning will look like.
To support your learning journey, many of the staff have an ‘open door’ policy which makes it easy to ask questions; it’s also possible to book appointments with them so that you can work through queries about lab work, concepts and theories, and any other aspects of the subject.
We use different types of assessments: some will contribute to your final grade while others will be used to provide you with guidance on your progress and reinforce your learning.
You can expect both your tutors and your peers to provide useful comments and feedback throughout the course.
Many of the staff have worked in forensic science laboratories and have been involved in high profile cases such as the Stephen Lawrence, Joanna Yeates, Suffolk strangler and Jigsaw murder cases.
Their areas of research include toxicology, the analysis of fibres and their transfer and persistence and the analysis of ancient DNA.
Academic staff include former forensic biologists, forensic toxicologists, and forensic fibre experts.
They continue to maintain close links with the industry including the police and practising forensic scientists.
Many of them are well-established within professional forensic science societies and organisations, which directly inform policy and practices within the field.
Meet the staff who teach on our Forensic Science programme
Dr Aaron Amankwaa
Alan Langford
Julio Ponce
Kelly Sheridan
Northumbria University has also invested heavily in an impressive suite of analytical equipment allowing you to gain first-hand experience of the techniques used in operational laboratories.
Northumbria is helping to push the frontiers of knowledge in areas such as:
As part of the course, you will undertake a Masters project that will require you to evaluate relevant literature as well as to develop your ideas within the context of existing research.
The project will involve information retrieval, critical appraisal, presentation of aims and strategy, development of advanced analytical and problem-solving skills, the discussion and interpretation of results, and the composition of a written dissertation.
Each project will be aligned to an active area of research that is specific to an academic member of staff.
Bio-economy
Forensic Science Unit
An interdisciplinary group of scientists and ex-practitioners interested in advancing knowledge and contributing to the profession.
The focus on practical laboratory work, combined with the mix of group work, independent learning and professional practice, will help ensure that you develop skills that are transferable to a range of careers and disciplines.
Forensic science has gained a high profile through TV dramas and, in the years ahead, the sector is likely to be further transformed by technological advances.
With an MSc Forensic Science you will be well-placed to take up a fascinating and rewarding role in forensic science laboratories.
What’s more, by developing the attributes of a Masters student, including the ability to solve complex problems, think critically, and work effectively with others and on your own, you will enhance your employability in all sectors of the analytical science industry.
You will also be well equipped to pursue further studies at PhD level.
Laura Reid
Student profile
When I graduate, I hope to get a job in a forensic lab or in the police force.
The great thing about the course is the possibility of branching out into a number of different science-based jobs.
MSc Forensic Science
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree in a subject related to chemistry or biology.
Laboratory equipment such as lab notebook (hardcover) and a scientific calculator are required and should cost no more than £25.
AP0723 -
Practices & Procedures in Forensic Science (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn the core knowledge and skills underpinning forensic science to provide you with a holistic view of forensic disciplines, principles and practices.
You will develop your critical thinking in terms of processes, evidence evaluation, interpretation and application of knowledge in forensic casework.
Example topics included within this module are as follows: - Key forensic principles - Forensic evidence types, such as trace evidence, body  fluids, drugs & toxicology and DNA - Case evaluation and assessment - Evidence interpretation and statistical evaluation - Case reporting and statement writing - Legal system and expert testimony
AP0724 -
Forensic Toxicology & Drugs of Abuse (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn the core material relating to forensic toxicology and drug analysis and may include  the evaluation and application of analytical toxicology and analysis of drugs of abuse to forensic science, theory of advanced mass spectral analysis, critical evaluation of current issues in forensic science, for example, roadside drug testing and the construction toxicology database construction using Microsoft Access Throughout the module, the focus is orientated to existing, current and future research practices and draws on research experience from the module team i.e.
post-mortem drug redistribution, tolerance, genotoxicity, analysis and interpretation.
The module team will be expanded to include guest speakers as appropriate.
AP0725 -
Criminalistics (Core,20 Credits)
Trace evidence such as fibres, glass and paint is often critical in forensic investigations.
In this module you will learn the theory that underpins fibres, glass, paint, and firearms as evidence types and learn how that knowledge can be utilised to solve cases.
You will learn how to apply your knowledge to determine when and how each evidence type may or may not be approppariate in a given case scenario and in doing so develop a case strategy.
By the end of this module you will have developed  an understanding of the role of a forensic examiner and what value  they bring to the forensic aspect of a criminal investigation.
AP0726 -
Forensic Genetics (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will discover the biological principles underpinning the scientific and statistical methods used to enable the identification of individuals from biological material recovered following unlawful activity.
During this module, you will cover all of the major techniques that have been used in forensic genetics.
You will also explore emerging technologies such as Next Generation DNA Sequencing and RNA profiling that will provide investigators with an ever increasing array of genetic information to progress a case.
The ethical implications of the use of genetic information for criminal investigation and storage of information in DNA databases will also be considered during this course.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/forensic-science-dtpfrs6:
This part-time Masters course involves a unique combination of forensic chemistry and forensic biology.
Mode of Study 2 or 3 years Part Time 2 other options available
To support your learning journey, many of the staff have an 'open door' policy which makes it easy to ask questions; it is also possible to book appointments with them so that you can work through queries about lab work, concepts and theories, and any other aspects of the subject.
The part-time mode makes it possible to combine your studies with existing commitments such as a job in an analytical laboratory.
You will have 24/7 term-time access to Northumbria’s library , which has 500,000 electronic books, 50,000 electronic journals and over 100 databases.
The ease of online access is ideal for those who are studying part-time since you can read materials whenever or wherever you need them.
The focus on practical laboratory work, combined with the mix of group work, independent learning, and professional practice, will help ensure that you develop skills that are transferable to a range of careers and disciplines.
Throughout your time at Northumbria we will prompt you to reflect on your self-development through the Higher Education Achievement Report process.
We will also encourage you to take advantage of the services of our Careers and Employment Service such as CV advice and interview preparation.
Forensic science has gained a high profile through TV dramas, and in the years ahead the sector is likely to be further transformed by technological advances in a number of fields.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-furniture-and-product-design-extended-degree-uusxpd1:
Z052
The Furniture & Product Design course is based on the idea that knowing how to make something enables a designer to expertly explore functionality and the potential for beauty in material culture.
You will be taught to become a skilled designer, maker and to think carefully about the broader cultural, environmental and commercial context for your practice.
Formerly known as '3D Design', this course has created graduates ready to contribute thoughtful and relevant design work for over 25 years.
Alumni of the programme have made an impact in a range of professional settings; designing lighting for companies like Anglepoise, developing complex furniture systems for airports, working alongside world-famous sculptors and in hundreds of other creatively rewarding settings.
You will learn within a vibrant studio and workshop-based community and be taught and assessed via a wide range of exciting design briefs.
Other courses you may be interested in: Product Design BA (Hons)
You will develop your designing and making skills, knowledge and contextual awareness through studio and workshop-based learning.
The teaching is centered upon a series of creative briefs and portfolio submissions.
You will be encouraged to develop a personal approach towards the critical issues in contemporary design practice and develop your understanding of what material culture could and should be like.
As you create ever more sophisticated pieces of furniture and product design during longer projects, you will learn how best to use the workshop as a venue for the creation and consideration of alternatives.
You will learn to design through making, by refining the qualities of artefacts with reference to prototypes and your understanding of how those prototypes were made.
You will have the option to undertake an industrial placement year, or study abroad at a range of partner institutions all over the world.
A self-initiated Major Design Project will enable you to pursue your own interests in design.
Informed by your research in the critical issues at stake in contemporary design practice, you will be encouraged to work with curiosity, imagination and ambition, to create a portfolio and collection of artefacts that demonstrate your knowledge and abilities upon graduation.
DE4018 -
Design Cultures (Core,20 Credits)
Few forms of creative, intellectual and commercial activity reach into so many areas of public and private life as design.
Exploring the history and theory of design, we will consider how design disciplines act and interact in the world and how design is shaped by the cultural contexts in which it is produced and consumed.
This module will provide you with the tools to help situate your studio practice in its social, cultural and economic context.
It will develop your knowledge of design history in order to expand your visual vocabulary and help you understand how design developed into the global phenomenon it is today.
The lecture programme will examine the history of design through a chronological survey of key styles and movements from c.1800 to the present.
Crucially, the module will also encourage you to reflect on the wider social, cultural and economic significance of design.
Underpinning the historical survey, sessions will examine and make links to critical issues in contemporary life such as consumerism, globalisation, sustainability, post-colonialism and gender relations.
What, for example, can historical figures such as William Morris contribute to debates about designers’ social and environmental responsibilities in the 21st century?
Additionally, the module will help you develop your skills in research, visual and textual analysis, critical thinking, and written and verbal communication, all of which are crucial for academic and professional success.
DE4019 -
Design Theory (Core,20 Credits)
Furniture and product designers must often consider the specifics of their design challenge or opportunity with reference to existing knowledge, principles or approaches.
This module will introduce you to the knowledge and research methods—the ‘design theory’—that will come to support your design practice in this way.
The module is taught around 3 themes: Designers, Users, and Technologies.
Designers introduces you to the ideas, principles and responsibilities that underpin contemporary design practice.
This component encourages you to develop critical judgement of your own work and the work of others.
Notable figures and ideas from the history and contemporary practice of industrial design are introduced, and you are encouraged to explore and discover practitioners and artefacts that might be less well-known but could become a significant inspiration for you personally.
Users introduces the study of ergonomics and how design work can be informed by paying attention to people’s interactions with the world.
You will learn how to analyse the ergonomic success or failure of existing artefacts and explore a range of methods for gathering rich and useful insights into how people live with artefacts.
Technologies teaches you how to research and better understand materials, manufacturing processes and the potential of technology to drive innovative and ecologically responsible design practice.
You will develop a foundational knowledge of widely used materials and processes through presentations and case-studies, before being asked to practice and develop methods for quickly developing the type of functional knowledge and expertise required for a designer to work with new materials and processes.
DE4020 -
Studio Skills (Core,20 Credits)
This module introduces you to the professional studio skills required of furniture and product designers to conceive, develop and realise three-dimensional prototypes.
The content of the module reflects the range of tools, techniques and materials designers use to effectively work out what artefacts could and should be like, before communicating these ideas to others.
This module embraces the notion that developing your own personal, skilful and enjoyable approach to prototyping will enable you to develop sophisticated and thoughtful responses to design briefs.
The module is split into 2 components: Prototyping and Visual Communication.
Prototyping is a studio and workshop-based component that introduces a range of materials, processes and techniques useful during design development.
It covers both two-dimensional (e.g.
sketching) and three-dimensional (e.g.
card modelling) methods of design development.
Through experimentation with a wide range of media, you are encouraged to begin to adopt and develop techniques that you consider appropriate to your interests as a designer.
You should begin to feel enabled and confident to create, evaluate and develop three-dimensional forms.
Visual Communication is taught through studio sessions and computer software tuition.
It introduces industry-standard graphics software packages essential to the contemporary designer and enables you to present your work in an increasingly professional manner.
DE4021 -
Design Projects (Core,40 Credits)
This module is designed to develop your ability to creatively answer a three-dimensional design brief, both as an individual and in team situations.
The module is formed around a series of furniture and product design projects that act as vehicles for you to apply and develop your design skills and knowledge.
The projects encourage you to put the theoretical and practical skills taught in other modules into practice and begin to consider your learning in a wider professional context.
The project briefs will enable you to explore a variety of different contexts and motivations for design practice.
Some briefs might ask you to explore the potentials of a particular material or process, others might ask you design with a particular manufacturer in mind.
You might be prompted to creatively repurpose existing objects into a novel form, or re-design an artefact to make people think differently about an important subject or issue.
You will learn how diverse projects require various blends of theoretical and practical skills as you research, develop and communicate thoughtful and sophisticated responses.
By presenting your work, both at interim stages and upon completion, you will gain experience of how to effectively and professionally communicate both your project development and resolution.
This module also introduces specialist CAD (Computer Aided Design) software, which is taught alongside and implemented in the design projects throughout.
Alongside the completion of the design projects, you will be introduced to the use and value of reflective practice in this module.
You will be encouraged to take responsibility for your own learning and begin to articulate your own developing approach to design practice.
This will provide an opportunity for you to consider and forecast your personal trajectory and interests throughout the degree and beyond.
DE5017 -
3D Design: Making (Core,20 Credits)
Successful furniture and product design relies on an ability to prototype and evaluate ideas in three-dimensions.
The making of prototypes enables designers to test and refine the qualities of a nascent artefact, perhaps by improving its functionality, proposing an alternative manufacturing method, tweaking the proportions, or reworking the subtlest of aesthetic details.
Designers think through making.
And the clarity and precision with which they can think has its parallel in clarity and precision with which they can make.
In this module, you will develop your knowledge and skills in workshop-based prototyping practice, such that you will be enabled to effectively prototype in three-dimensions.
The module is based around a bespoke workshop induction and competency building programme that underpins the requirements of study on level 5 of the Furniture and Product Design degree.
These sessions introduce you to materials, processes and safe working practices.
This is more than a basic induction into the use of workshop tools and machinery—the module asks you to precisely make several complex furniture and product artefacts according to dimensioned drawings over an 8-week period, using a wide-variety of industry-standard equipment.
You will use this experience to build a critical, hands-on knowledge of materials and processes, and the understanding necessary to design and prototype your own sophisticated three-dimensional designs in subsequent modules.
Upon completion of the module, Furniture and Product Design students will be uniquely enabled to work in a safe, confident and highly competent manner in the workshop environment, so that they can successfully use this space as a means of prototyping their designs.
In addition to this time in the workshop, you will contextualise the workshop-based learning during studio sessions with academic staff.
DE5018 -
3D Design: CAD and Communication (Core,20 Credits)
This module develops your skills in CAD and graphics software, and your knowledge of how to communicate both the technical specification and aesthetic qualities of your three-dimensional design work.
You will learn how to create technical drawings appropriate for the manufacture of furniture and products, and how to present development work, product photography and computer generated imagery to the highest professional standards.
Taught by specialist tutors in the context of furniture and product design practice, your knowledge of CAD software will be appropriate to the specific requirements of this industry.
You will learn how to deliver well-resolved, accurate and dimensioned technical drawings according to industry standards, such that manufacturers would be able to easily interpret and realise your designs.
Understanding how best to present your 3D design work via print and online, using an engaging and appropriate aesthetic is a valuable skill for design professionals.
Through learning industry-standard graphics software, having access to photography studio space, equipment and technical support, and developing your understanding of graphic design practice you will learn how to deliver high-quality presentations.
DE5019 -
3D Design: Projects (Core,40 Credits)
This module  consists of a series of furniture and product design briefs that  enable you to extend your design and critical thinking skills.
The project briefs challenge you to sensitively address the requirements of defined markets and end users in the context of responsible, professional design practice.
You will also have the opportunity within these briefs to further explore and articulate your own design philosophies and preoccupations.
As the module progresses you are encouraged to take more ownership of project direction and become more confident in justifying your actions.
Studio and workshop-based teaching develops your ability to  conceieve, refine and produce  complex and sophisticated working prototypes.
You will use the workshop skills, knowledge and competency developed in previous modules, and become increasingly aware of the importance of technical materials and process knowledge to design practice.
You will learn how to use the workshop not just for the mechanical realisation of existing concepts, but as a venue for the discussion and consideration of alternatives, with direct reference to works-in-progress.
You will learn to become a designer capable of thinking through making—able to refine the qualities of nascent artefacts with reference to prototypes and your understanding of how those prototypes were made.
The module also provides an opportunity to utilise and further develop the CAD and communication skills  you have developed in other modules, as you present your work to the highest professional standards and begin to develop a portfolio that demonstrates your design knowledge, abilities and interests.
DE5020 -
3D Design: Context (Core,20 Credits)
This module will enable you to better understand and evaluate your own practice with reference to the cultural context of contemporary furniture and product design.
Unlike other level 5 Furniture and Product Design modules, which direct your focus towards the technical, functional and aesthetic details of artefacts, this is an opportunity to think more broadly about the nature of contemporary design, the future direction of your own practice, and how those two things can intersect.
Through studying the issues surrounding current practice—environmental, societal, ethical, aesthetic, commercial and technological challenges or opportunities—you will begin to identify and appreciate approaches that resonate with your own understanding of what material culture should be like.
Your teaching and learning will be framed by studying different types of design practice, and their associated motivations and outcomes.
You will, for example, learn more about the context of commercially driven projects; study how new technologies can inspire designers to explore innovative forms or user-interactions; and discover how diverse ideas and aesthetics from old or overlooked sources can define new territories in contemporary practice.
You will consider the range of approaches through which furniture and product design confronts global sustainability challenges.
And you will investigate speculative or critical approaches to design practice, which create artefacts to provoke questions, explore fictions of how the world could be and articulate (rather than solve) problems.
You will, therefore, develop a broad awareness of what a design brief can ask of you as a practitioner, and the range of valid and significant contributions your own practice could make.
DE6018 -
Professional Design Practice (Core,20 Credits)
This module gives you the opportunity to respond to a brief from a real-world context, so that you can further hone your abilities, apply an increasingly professional level of ambition and self-criticism, and develop confidence in your potential as a designer post-graduation.
The module is composed of an advanced project brief selected from an appropriate national/international design competition or suitable live briefs.
The studio-based teaching engages you with the criteria and requirements of the external body/client and supports you to refine your professional communication and presentation skills.
The ‘live’ nature of the brief sets the tone for the studio teaching—an emphasis is placed upon your autonomous management of the project.
You will be encouraged to work with independence as you research and understand the project’s context, and set your own goals and aspirations with regards the nature, quality and quantity of design work created.
You will, therefore, learn how to respond to a creative challenge in an increasingly organised and self-assured manner.
Complementary workshop time and technical support will be provided by specialist cabinet-making, metal-smithing, machining and fabrication technicians to enable you to make any prototypes necessary for pitching your ideas.
Here you will discover how carefully targeted prototyping practice can be used to efficiently and convincingly communicate the qualities of design work to a client.
DE6019 -
Major Design Project (Core,60 Credits)
This module can be understood as the culmination of your undergraduate design studies.
You are asked to research, write and respond to a self-directed design brief.
The completed project should be a testament to your learning and a valuable demonstration of your interests and abilities as you graduate into professional practice or further study.
Previous assignments throughout the degree have enabled and urged you to take a position on what contemporary material culture should be like.
This is an opportunity to manifest these ideas through your practice and make artefacts that truly embody your values as a designer.
Whilst the precise nature of the project’s content is defined by you, this module will require you to engage with the same cultural issues that have surrounded the furniture and product design of previous modules.
You will be encouraged to thoroughly research, analyse and articulate the context for your project, ensuring you learn how to frame your creative practice in a manner that is relevant and valuable to contemporary design.
Following the thoughtful definition of your project,  you will utilise studio and workshop time to prototype, develop and refine highly sophisticated answers to your design brief.
You will be encouraged to work with ambition and to develop insightful contributions to your chosen area of practice.
You will further your understanding of how to effectively manage a design project and be enabled to push your design knowledge, skills and creativity as far as possible.
DE6020 -
Critical Design Evaluation (Core,20 Credits)
As you reach the end of your undergraduate studies and complete your Major Design Project, this complementary module will enable you to enhance your understanding of how your  project work responds, and contributes, to the wider world of design practice.
Upon graduation, the self-reflection and evaluation prompted by this module will allow you to confidently articulate the value of your Major Design Project outcomes, and the personal knowledge, skills and interests that underpin them.
This module’s learning is structured via the creation of a Critical Design Evaluation document which reflects upon, contextualises and expands the work you have completed through your Major Design Project.
This module represents the culmination and consolidation of the contextual and theoretical studies aspects of your degree.
The intention is to finesse and demonstrate your comprehension of how design knowledge and principles can be applied in practice.
You will learn how to consider, position and discuss your creative practice with respect to relevant precedents and come to better understand its potential value and audience.
The module includes a series of professional practice studio sessions, which provide an outward-looking context as the backdrop to your activities.
You will be encouraged to engage with external partners in the evaluation of your Major Design Project, so that you can develop insights into the real-world significance of your design practice, and where it may lead you upon graduation.
You will learn to explore and reflect upon your own values and be encouraged to act with boldness and professional confidence when discussing your work.
Top Department: Northumbria is ranked 4th in the UK for Product Design studies (Guardian University League Table, 2025).
Excellent Careers Prospects: Product Design at Northumbria is ranked 3rd= in the UK for Graduate Prospects (Guardian University Guide, 2025).
This is because 90% of our graduates are in highly skilled employment or further study 15 months after graduation.
The Furniture & Product Design course has educated a significant number of successful designers over its 25-year plus history.
Our graduates go on to pursue careers as designers and makers across the creative industries sector, including in furniture and product design studios, designing for manufacture, interaction design, in communications and branding and within the art world.
As a student, you will develop the theoretical and practical skills required by professional practice within these fields and beyond.
A post-graduation Designers in Residence scheme supported by the course staff has also enabled entrepreneurial graduates to set up businesses, including the Deadgood furniture brand and David Irwin Studios.
Danny Duquemin Sheil
Antony Gormley Studio
Elliot Brook
Deadgood
Lauren Jones
Brand By Boudica
Will Baugh
Lowden Guitars
As a student, you will be encouraged to consider the positive contribution you could make to the world as a designer.
You will synthesise aesthetics, function, technical knowledge, making skills, social responsibility and cultural awareness through a wide range of briefs.
Commercially driven projects might see you creatively utilise a manufacturer’s technical capacities and market position.
New technologies could enable you to explore innovative forms, user-interactions or new approaches to sustainability issues.
Diverse ideas and aesthetics from old or overlooked sources might inspire you to define new territories in contemporary practice.
You will be empowered to develop and realise your vision of what material culture could and should be like.
Ella Clasby
Against the Grain: Stool
Eric Gornall
G13 Lamp
India Renshaw
The Encircled Collection: Lamp
Liam Scott
The Chew Chair
Sophie Earp
Woven Stool
Dan Grey
A Modern Morris Chair
Staff are supportive and enthusiastic teachers as well as being active design practitioners.
We regularly contribute work to national and international design exhibitions, ensuring our knowledge remains up-to-date and can inform your education.
We have recently exhibited at New York Design Week, the Venice Biennale, and at shows around the UK.
Jayne Wallace
Mac Collins
Phillip Luscombe
Assistant Professor/ Programme Leader
Rickard Whittingham
As a Furniture & Product Design student, you will benefit from generous access to studios, workshops and photography and computer facilities.
Studio spaces are set up for lectures/presentations as well as being suitable for creating sketch work and paper and card models.
They will provide a base for you throughout your timetabled activities and beyond, as somewhere to share your learning experience with other students and staff.
Dedicated cabinet making, metal smithing, engineering, fabrication, 3D printing and CNC workshops are used to create prototypes.
You will be inducted and supported in these spaces by specialist technicians, and work with increasing independence as your competence grows.
You will make your own prototypes as part of a hands-on learning process.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-furniture-and-product-design-uusfpd1:
W266
Optional field trip.
You can elect to attend the 2nd year study trip.
In recent years, this has been to New York and costs approximately £1,200 for 7 nights to cover flight and accommodation (subsistence is roughly equivalent to UK prices)
 
Degree show costs – optional.
Final year students may be given the opportunity to attend New Designers in London.
If you choose to attend, you should allow for the costs of travel (approximately £40 return by coach or £100 return by train) and accommodation (approximately £95 pp per night in budget accommodation – hostel or air bnb).
The costs of basic materials included in your tuition fees.
If you choose to use specialist materials or services for your projects, you will have to cover these (costs will vary depending on the nature of your project).
Throughout your course you will be expected to purchase specialist equipment, these may include layout pads, drawing pens & pencils, modelling tools, craft knives etc.
These will vary in cost but as an approximate guide may range between £400-£500.
Whilst we provide access to computers and software on campus machines and accessible via online remote access.
If you choose to use additional software on your own personal machines then you will have to cover this cost.
(Costs will vary depending on individual software packages.) We would also recommend that students have their own laptops/desktop: Mac or PC (cost will vary depending on the type and specification of the machine, anywhere between £700-£2800).

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-games-computing-extended-degree-uusxxo1:
Whether you wish to study games development and programming, gaining the skills to develop and implement the software behind computer games, or maybe take your skills into industry, creating simulations or immersive experiences, our BSc (Hons) Games Computing course immerses you in an exciting, innovative environment where you will develop your theoretical and technical knowledge and skills which will be directly relatable to your future career.
See other similar courses you may be interested in: Business Computing BSc (Hons) .
Starting with computer science essentials, you will become an expert in games design, development and programming by the time you graduate.
You will study key topics in games programming, games design and 3D graphics programming as well as core computer science modules such as computer programming, algorithms and data structures, data management, and cloud computing.
The gaming industry is growing, so your skills will be in high demand.
Even more so, thanks to Northumbria University's strong industry relationships and reputation for excellent gaming graduates.
You will have plenty of opportunity to practice your skills throughout your time at Northumbria.
For example, you will take part in a business consultancy project, delivering solutions to real-world problems.
UCAS Code Z068
Computer and Information Sciences encompasses all of our work in artificial intelligence, machine learning, computer forensics, human computer interaction, games and more.
To begin with, you will study computer science essentials like computational thinking, programming and data, you will also get your first introduction to games development.
Then, you become a specialist, focusing almost entirely on games computing.
You will study games programming using OOP, C++ and Unreal, as well as games design.
You will also get the chance to work on a consultancy project, delivering solutions to real-world contexts, gaining practical experience of the real-world application of games computing.
You study 3D graphics programming, advanced games programming and complete a group computing task with fellow students.
You also complete your dissertation in your final year.
This is your chance to impress employers by designing, building and evaluating your own gaming project.
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Games Computing BSc (Hons).
Speak to staff and students from the course and get a tour of the facilities
What you study is shaped by their research, which is classed as both ‘world-leading’ and ‘internationally excellent’ (REF, 2021).
Computer & Information Science programmes at Northumbria take place in a dynamic learning environment where you will have access to an expert team of staff - developing in-depth technical expertise as well as career-ready skills like teamwork, communication and critical thinking.
Our students learn from the best inspirational academic staff with experience and a genuine passion for games and computing.
Chris Rook
Dan Hodgson
Dr Kamlesh Mistry
Dr Marta Cecchinato
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study BSc (Hons) Games Computing.
Specifically, those studying Games Computing will have access to the Specialist Games Labs where you can work with the latest software and Games Development kits.
See a virtual tour here.
This course covers a broad range of computing specialisms and will open the door to a vast range of careers within this industry.
Our existing games graduates are employed in a wide range of games companies, varying from small start-ups to triple-A studios.
We place a real emphasis on developing the transferable skills that will pave the way towards your success.
These include communication, analytical and problem-solving skills, technical skills, and the ability to work independently or as part of a team.
As a games computing graduate, you could enter a career in areas such as, games development, software engineering, systems analysis and design, computer networks, consultancy, database development and management, software testing, artificial intelligence embedded systems, IT management, and web development.
Here at Northumbria, we know how valuable work experience can be in terms of giving you a head start in your career, so we enable you to gain real-world experience on a year long professional placement.
Previous students from the department have had the opportunity to go on a placement in blue chip companies such as Hewlett Packard and GlaxoSmithKline and at CERN in Geneva.
CERN has doubled the number of students it will take on placement, reflecting the respect and value placed on this degree by prestigious industry professionals.
You will also have the opportunity to study abroad year at a partner institution, enabling you to gain global perspective on your subject and boost your future career prospects.
KV4010 -
Introduction to Games Development (Core,20 Credits)
This module will be a core module for Games development programme.
This module aims to develop students introductory level skills in game development using an industry standard game engine.
Students will be introduced to the fundamentals of scripting including variables, functions and operators, and program flow control, along with more advanced aspects such as player controllers and game modes.
Students will use these concepts to implement gameplay functionality and interaction using an industry standard game engine.
Assessment will be 100% based on the creation of a playable prototype within the game engine.
This module will prepare students for later modules such as Games Design, Game Programming 3 and 3D Graphics Programming as well as the placement in your third year.
Most of the Game studios are looking for individuals who can work with open-source game engine such as Unreal Engine, Unity Engine etc.
During ‘Introduction to Games Development’ you will work through a series of exercises, making use of Northumbria’s state-of-the-art computer games labs.
You will also learn about version control (GIT repository or Unreal Engine source control) and development lifecycle (pre-production, production, and post-production)
KV5042 -
Games design (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about the design of computer/video games, the needs of and the issues facing the games industry and their impact upon games design.
You will analyse a games problem and create a design for their solution using industry standard methods.
In particular you will learn about: •	Principles of good, and user-centric game design.
•	The elements of game design.
•	How games are made in the industry and the makeup of the industry Professional, legal, social and ethical issues faced by the industry in general, and how they affect the game designer.
KV5043 -
Games Programming 1 (Core,20 Credits)
This module will form an introduction to the C++ programming language, currently the most important language for games programming.
You will learn and practice basic and advanced programming concepts, such as arrays, object-orientated code and the use of dynamic memory.
You will make use of industry-standard development tools and learn how to use them to test and debug your code in order to produce reliable, structured and efficient software.
You will also examine the role of the C++ language within the wider computing industry, the role of international standards and deviations from that standard for practical or legal reasons.
As the main language in the computer games industry, it is the most common skill sought after by games employers.
The language is also used in many other applications including operating systems, database systems, business systems and embedded systems, offering employment options in these areas.
As the language supports both low-level and high-level programming concepts, an understanding of C++ promotes a deeper understanding of programming when applied to other languages.
As well as being used by larger companies, the language is supported by many engines used by smaller start-ups, so this is a practical skill that supports entrepreneurship opportunities.
Over the course of the module, you will be taught a series of programming concepts.
You will have opportunities to try these out in workshop classes, supported by tutors and also during independent study.
You will be encouraged to experiment with different programming styles to develop a deeper understanding and to learn how to master a new technology.
You will also get to learn and improve the version control skills using industry standard tools, such as GIT repository.
KV5044 -
Games programming 2 (Optional,20 Credits)
You will learn how to create a computer game, using industry-standard programming tools and an understanding of the mathematics of motion.
You will extend your understanding of programming by using more advanced architectural concepts such as inheritance hierarchies, component architecture and templates.
You will use a software package to implement sound, input and simple animated graphics.
You will learn how to use geometrical vectors to describe and control the motion of objects in a two-dimensional environment.
You will also develop your general problem-solving and programming skills.
For part of the module, you will work on smaller, directed tasks as you develop your skills.
Later in the module, you will work on a larger task over several weeks, both independently and with the support of tutors in workshop time.
During the module, you will produce example software for your portfolio.
This improves your employability both inside and outside the games industry, as it demonstrates your problem-solving abilities, the quality of your code and your ability to structure complex software.
This will help you keep track of changes and work in collaboration with other students.
KV6008 -
3D Graphics Programming (Core,20 Credits)
This module will give you an essential foundation in 3D graphics programming on an industry-standard games platform (games console or PC).
You will learn how to create elements of a game engine (the rendering of model meshes, and texturing and transforming them, elements of lighting and other graphical effects) which you will then use to create a small game, and the supporting mathematics of 3D representation and simulation.
‘3D Graphics Programming’ will prepare you for later modules such as Games Programming 3 in your final year.
Employers are looking for skilled graphics programmers who can work as individuals and as members of a team in enhancing the visual quality of the computer games using computational efficient solutions to enable an interactive gaming experience.
During ‘3D Graphics Programming’ you will work through practical exercises, making use of Northumbria’s state-of-the-art computer labs and games lab, and using state-of-the-art games hardware.
The assessment (100%) will be a final programming assignment that will bring together all your new skills and techniques.
The teaching on this module will conform to Northumbria’s EDI standards for accessibility and respect for all.
KV6020 -
Games Programming 3 (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn algorithms and techniques for advanced game programming topics, as are currently relevant to the games industry.
This will be achieved through a mixture of taught content, directed learning and independent learning.
There will be a choice of discrete topics, from which you will choose two to study and implement.
At least one topic will be directly taught, other topics will be available through directed material, and some topics will be available through purely independent inquiry.
For both of your chosen topics you will be required to implement a “proof of concept” application which implements a topic-relevant algorithm in such a way that demonstrates clear understanding of that topic.
These applications will be of relevant scale and demonstrability that they can form part of your personal portfolio as can be used for seeking employment.
The topics for any particular year will be chosen to be advanced, current, and/or cutting-edge programming domains for games development.
Indicative topics (this list is given to help indicate the sorts of topics available, and is not intended to be either fully inclusive or exclusive – this module is designed to be agile to follow current aspects of games computing) •	Games AI: pathfinding, A*, minimax •	Network programming for client-server multiplayer gaming •	Concurrent programming for modern games hardware architecture •	Advanced shading techniques •	Procedural generation techniques Also on this module, you will investigate the current research literature pertaining to a societal issue in games of your choice, which can include equality, diversity and inclusion issues and sustainability issues.
You will produce a short critical review of the literature for this issue.
This module has a significant impact on employability in the games industry in three important ways: •	Advanced and current topics in game programming •	Independent learning of new programming algorithms and techniques •	Critical thinking and evaluation

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-games-computing-uusgco1:
UCAS Code G416

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-geography-extended-degree-uusxey1:
This Geography course will teach you to understand
the economic, cultural, social and political processes that influence key
contemporary issues.
The start of the course incorporates a broader understanding
of geography, with a specific focus on human geography for the remainder of
your course.
As you progress through the course, you can choose modules specific to your
own interests and career aspirations, and you will be taught by our team of
leading academics who boast a range of interlinked specialisms.
In addition to annual field trips in the UK and Europe, you will
also have the opportunity to undertake a work placement, study abroad or a
combination of both to further your skills and understanding.
Super Satisfaction : 100% of students studying Human Geography at Northumbria believed that their course was intellectually stimulating and they were positively challenged to achieve their best work (NSS, 2024).
Geography and Environmental Studies at Northumbria is ranked 2nd for research power in the UK (REF, 2021).
This is a rise of 39 places compared to 2014.
Geography
& Environmental Science at Northumbria is ranked top 10 in the UK for
Teaching Quality & Student Experience (Times Good University Guide, 2025).
Human Geography at Northumbria is ranked 1st in the UK for Academic Support (NSS, 2025)
Accredited degree programmes contain a solid academic foundation in geographical knowledge and skills, and prepare graduates to address the needs of the world beyond higher education.
The accreditation criteria require evidence that graduates from accredited programmes meet defined sets of learning outcomes, including subject knowledge, technical ability and transferable skills.
See other similar courses you may be interested in: Physical Geography , Environmental Science
UCAS Code Z092
This course’s focus is on human geography, allowing you to advance your understanding and appreciate the value of a human-centred analysis of contemporary global change.
You will explore the ways in which political, cultural, social and economic forces interact in specific places, developing the necessary skills to formulate research questions and select appropriate methods of inquiry and analysis.
BA Geography covers a diverse range of teaching methods, including lectures, seminars, tutorials, workshops, visits and fieldtrips.
Teaching is also supported with learning resources such handouts, online lectures, books and other materials which are made available via our e-Learning Portal.
You will be assessed not just on what you know but also the new skills you will have acquired, which include GIS, visualisation, geophotography, reflexive practice and presentation skills.
Staff operate an open door policy allowing you easy access to the team and provide regular feedback on all assessed work.
When you join the BA Geography course you will be taught by our research-active academic team who combine their vast subject knowledge with high quality teaching and support.
All of our teaching team hold doctorates or extensive experience in their respective fields.
They are experts in a broad range of specialisms including migration, labour and identity, austerity and inequalities, ‘race’ and racism, environmental justice, mobilities and environmental issues, urban regeneration, tourism, ageing and retirement migration, rural change, low-carbon lifestyles, geographies of crime, emotional geographies, feminist methodologies and creative industries.
All of our staff are approachable, enthusiastic and committed to your learning experience, supporting you through every step of your degree.
You will also benefit from our academics’ memberships with professional bodies and relationships estabilished with third party organisations.
Dr Ana Laura Zavala Guilen
Dr Peter Forman
Dr John Clayton
Prof Kathryn Cassidy
Northumbria University boasts industry-leading facilities to enhance your learning experience throughout the duration of your degree.
Our campus encompasses a range of learning spaces specifically designed to allow you to get up close and learn using state-of-the-art equipment and software.
This includes a Qualitative Research Suite, social spaces and a dedicated resource centre and learning space for geographers - The Hub.
Other on-site facilities include The Zone, which is open 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Throughout your course you will undertake individual and group projects, visiting a variety of regional, national and international locations to learn and practice investigative field work methods.
Project work will also allow you to explore and reflect on issues ranging from globalisation to housing.
Research-rich learning is central to the BA Geography course and we have two active Research Groups: ‘Social and Cultural Geographies’ and ‘Disaster, Development and Resilience'.
Our academics publish cutting-edge work within academia and contributing to policy debates, civic life and business.
Incorporating this research into an active learning environment is at the forefront of our teaching strategy, allowing you to participate in debates that are defining the discipline, with those directly involved in shaping change.
This course places an emphasis on both the development of individual research skills and the importance of group work, and by the end of your course you will possess the skills required to position yourself as a confident researcher.
Research in this department is focused in five main areas.
Employability is embedded within BSc Geography from the start, ensuring you leave with skills that are transferrable and applicable to a working environment.
Northumbria University’s BA Geography graduates are highly valued by employers thanks to our leading facilities, course options and the reputation of our research-active academics.
This course will prepare you for a wide range of specialist roles, including careers within planning, teaching, the civil service, charities, geographic data analysis, international development and the environment and renewable energy sectors.
Many of our graduates move into graduate training programmes, local and national Government and postgraduate study .
A work placement is the ideal way to gain experience in your chosen career and will enable you to apply what you have learnt in the lecture theatre and lab in the real world.
Typically, students will opt for a year in industry or study abroad before their final year.
If you opt to take a placement year during your studies, you will be able to work alongside, and learn from, professionals in the Geography field, building up vital networking contacts and developing key skills such as time management, communication, problem solving and self-management.
KE4001 -
Introduction to Human Geography (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about contemporary human geography and this will provide a firm and wide-ranging foundation/framework for more detailed study in human geographies at levels 5 and 6.
It will help you to appreciate the broad variety of issues and concepts within contemporary human geography, whilst encouraging you to make informed and critical judgements upon issues of human geographic importance and relevance.
You will be introduced to forms of explanation in human geography and the manner in which geographers have interpreted a variety of social, cultural, political and economic phenomena.
You will develop global knowledge and an understanding of international perspectives.
Topics explored are some of the major issues facing the earth and its peoples today including: poverty and social exclusion, geographies of difference and inequality, population movements and the geo-political tensions around state borders in a global world, economic change and the geographical consequences of a global financial service sector and the rise of the knowledge economy.
KE4003 -
Geography Fieldwork (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn that fieldwork is an essential and characteristic aspect of geography and you will learn how to conduct physical geography fieldwork or a combination of physical and human and geography fieldwork, depending on your programme of study.
Fieldwork is a form of experiential learning which contributes to your curiosity and enquiry about human and/or physical environments.
You will carry this out by developing discerning observation and measurement of physical aspects of your environment recognising the importance of scale.
You will understand the evolution and significance of the distinctiveness of places and environments including glaciated landscapes and you will be made aware of different approaches to their interpretation.
In the BA and BSc programmes you will gain a parallel understanding of the role of spatial linkages in social and physical processes.
You will be given opportunities to practise methods and strategies of field research in human and/or physical geography such as observing the impacts of geomorphological processes and conducting human geography enquiries.
You will be encouraged to take a critical view of the challenges and opportunities of field-based research and will learn how to use and apply appropriate field-based equipment and technologies.
For example, understanding how the ‘natural’ environment is anything but natural and is in fact a consequence of human interaction with the environment, is an example of such critical thinking.
You will take responsibility for your learning and reflection upon that learning and you will recognise the moral, ethical and safety issues involved in all aspects of geographical enquiry.
In this module you will learn how to work in groups and you will gain problem solving and presentation skills.
KE4009 -
Geographies of Development (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about why global development has been uneven, what the consequences are and what has been done to address uneven development.
We will begin by examining concepts of development and theories and models of development (e.g.
modernisation, dependency, neo-liberalism and postcolonialism).
This will provide a contextual foundation to explore other themes and issues which may include: • Development organisations and their roles (e.g.
NGOs, donors, multilateral agencies, the World Bank, the state etc) • Key historical processes and interventions (e.g.
colonialism, the debt crisis, structural adjustment, MDGs, SDGs) • Approaches in development (e.g.
basic needs, participation and empowerment) • Population and development • Urbanisation and rural development • Gender and development • Tourism and development • Poverty and inequality, livelihoods, vulnerability and resilience Through the use of case studies you will learn what uneven development means in a range of empirical contexts in the global South.
The skills developed on this module (particularly during the second semester include both self-management and working effectively as part of a group; the collection, analysis and presentation of secondary data; oral presentation skills).
KE4013 -
Geographical Ideas and Practice (Core,20 Credits)
Topics and issues covered include: ?
Independent study and time management.
Effective literature searching.
Reading and summarising academic literature.
Referencing, citations and plagiarism.
Marking schemes and expectations.
Essay writing skills.
Exam preparation.
Oral presentation and debating skills.
Dissecting a peer-reviewed journal article.
Effective group work.
Skills evaluation and reflection.
CV preparation and employability skills.
KA5018 -
Urban Planning and Development (Optional,20 Credits)
Planning mediates between competing interests in society and guides, shapes and regulates the use of land and property.
The primary policy goal is to deliver and/or facilitate 'sustainable development'.
In this module you will explore the significance of planning in order to facilitate economic, social and environmental objectives within the development process.
The module explores the nature of planning from a development perspective by engaging with policy, practical examples and key development concepts.
It considers the guiding principles of planning, the statutory processes and procedural dimensions, the management of development, contemporary planning practice, key actors and agencies, synergies between planning and urban regeneration and the competing and evolving dynamics of urban development.
You will develop, throughout this module, academic and professional skills relating to the evaluation of policy; effective communication; self-direction and personal responsibility and appreciate social and ethical aspects of the development process.
KE5005 -
Approaches to Research in Human Geography (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn the processes through which research is designed, implemented and analysed.
Part of the module addresses questions of philosophy and theory, you will understand the historical development of geographical thought within human geography, and learn how we arrived at the subject’s contemporary sub-disciplines.
These ontological and epistemological themes will then be linked to an evaluation of methodologies adopted in contemporary research in the social sciences.
You will build a toolbox of approaches which can be applied to your own research.
In the other part of module you will construct your own research project that will become your dissertation at level 6.
Through exploration of literature, case studies and best practice from a chosen field of human geography, you will develop the ability to design innovative research questions.
You will link these to an appropriate methodology and select methods suitable for your project.
KE5006 -
P/political Geographies (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about the importance of this sub-disciplinary area to the study of human geography, in relation to the key concepts of power and space.
You will develop an in depth understanding of the spatial organisation of political institutions, governance practices, processes and agents and critically consider a range of more and less formalised political practices operating at range of geographical scales.
You will also acquire important research methods skills by locating appropriate secondary qualitative data including policy and media sources and applying forms of discourse analysis.
The module places particular emphasis on the following themes: -	Definitions of the ‘political’ -	Globalisation and post-colonialism -	Activism and resistance -	Mobility and migration -	The nation and the state -	Citizenship -	The ‘local’ in politics -	The body and politics
KE5007 -
Social Geographies (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about the importance of this sub-disciplinary area to the study of human geography.
You will discover the ways in which social relations, inequalities and identities are distributed and (re-)produced across space.
The module places particular emphasis on: -	the welfare issues which affect people's lives -	the forms of power which lead to socio-spatial inequality and oppression -	individual and collective identities and their spatial (re-) production -	relevant methodological approaches for investigating these issues Through this module you will also learn a number of important and transferable skills including research skills, team working, problem solving, communication skills, and the ability to use your own initiative but also to follow instructions.
Earth Observation and GIS (Optional,20 Credits)
KE5020 -
Human geography fieldwork:UK (Optional,20 Credits)
The module seeks to demonstrate the relationships between global and local change and the interaction between economic, political, social, cultural and environmental change in one particular locality.
Within this conceptual framework, you will be mentored by a tutor to help you prepare for the field visit by developing specific projects under their supervision and direction.
These research projects will be identified by staff, but you will be expected to design a method of inquiry and carry out whatever background study necessary to conduct the work while in the field.
Research themes might include: • Rural development and agricultural change • Economic change and cultural industries • Heritage and destination place marketing • Rural tourism development • Urban change, urban morphology and redevelopment • Community development and action
KE5057 -
Economy, Space and Development (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn how to adopt and convey an economic-geographical approach to understanding the economy.
You will learn about how and why economic activities and processes vary over space and time, and will recognise the importance of history in shaping these spatial manifestations.
You will develop accounts of uneven spatial development in the economy based not just on the distribution of economic activities but also caused by decisions taken by a variety of key economic actors such as governments (and their agencies), regulators, firms, third sector organisations, trade unions, and /international/supra-national bodies.
By extension then you will learn how these actors shape and produce economic geographies, that is to say economic and social spaces.
You will also become conscious of the way in which scale is an important organising principle for the distribution of economic activity and behaviour of firms as well as learning how different economic processes happen at different spatial scales.
Finally, you will be equipped with the concepts/ theories and some of the essential methods for analysis required to understand the world from an economic-geographical perspective.
KE5064 -
Human Geography in the Field (International) (Optional,20 Credits)
You will learn about the ways in which the study site has been drawn into the global economy through a variety of different activities and processes.
You will also be able to study the ways in which some of these globalising forces have challenged local values and cultures.
We will demonstrate the relationships between global and local change and the interaction between economic, political, social, cultural and environmental change in one particular region.
Within this conceptual framework, you will be mentored by a tutor to help you prepare for the field visit.
Research themes might include: • Patterns and processes of land-use change • Development of commercial forms of agriculture • Economic change • Tourism development • Heritage and destination place marketing • Mobilities and demographic change • Urban change, urban morphology and redevelopment • Modernisation of rural villages and landscapes
KE6007 -
Geographies of 'race', ethnicity and multiculture (Optional,20 Credits)
You will learn about the politics and geographies of identity and difference with specific reference to racial and ethnic identities at a range of scales and in a variety of contexts.
You will discover how social relations are impacted by racial and ethnic identities through space and place, and how such identities intersect with other social axes such as migration, citizenship status, gender, class and age in different ways.
The module places particular emphasis on: -	Histories of racialisation -	Whiteness -	‘Race’ and racism -	Identity (re)construction -	The role of place in contextualising identities -	Contemporary migration and belonging -	Social policy -	Everyday multiculturalism You will also learn a range of skills including the ability to analyse processes and experiences in relation to a range of theoretical approaches, to abstract, synthesise and evaluate a range of source material and to develop an appreciation of your own positionality through reflexive and reflective learning.
KE6025 -
Historical geographies: usable pasts and hidden histories (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about the connections between human geography and history.
You will learn about broad themes within the sub-discipline, with particular focus upon relationships between the past and present though reflections around historical methods, archives and debates regarding heritage.
With these broad themes in mind, we will then narrow our focus to particular case studies of historical geography, to illustrate the breadth of contributions that a historically informed approach can make towards the study of human geography.
You will consider case studies and methodological interventions from the sub-discipline.
These engagements will be structured around three scales of engagement: Firstly, you will consider the micro-histories of intimate spaces to understand how sites such as ships, asylums and the battlefield all have historical geographies of their own.
Secondly, you will consider how particular places might be understood through their historical geographies to show how historical processes (such as political traditions and deindustrialisation) have influenced places, whilst also considering how people relate to the histories of places familiar to them.
Finally, the module will consider the wider trans-local and trans-national historical approach to indicate historical geographies of mobility and internationalism.
This section will consider international conferences, global lives, exploration and international forms of activism and solidarity.
These insights will allow you to shape and develop a historical narrative of your own, at or between the scales indicated here, and to shape a small research project based upon engagements with historical ‘data’.
The scales introduced here are used as historical geography ‘cuts’ and the lectures and seminars will critically consider the benefits of a spatial approach to history, facilitating your own engagements with a subject area of your choosing.
KE6034 -
Encountering Urban Worlds (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about the processes and practices shaping urban worlds and the ways in which these are socially and spatially differentiated, revealing the diversity of lived experiences in cities across the world as well as different theoretical histories and contemporary movements.
You will learn the unique contribution geographers have made to our understanding of cities, everyday life in the city, and to think critically about urbanisation, in particular, to critique and challenge the dominance of neoliberal representations of the city.
We will explore how processes of governance b/order urban space and the ways in which these are negotiated and contested.
Key themes in the module will include cities and modernity; public space, place and identity; consumption, consumer culture and psychogeography; urban geopolitics; commons and housing; debates around the “right to the city”; and imagining the urban future.
Through field work in and around Newcastle and culminating in the Amsterdam field trip, you will also learn to undertake place and participant observation, keep a fieldwork diary and analyse in-depth, ethnographic data.
KE6035 -
Global Capitalism: Digital and Sustainable Transformations (Optional,20 Credits)
You will learn about contemporary debates about the digital and sustainable transformations of global capitalism.
You will gain insight into a range of topics including the development implications of contemporary capitalism organized through global production networks; contested development outcomes brought by the rise of global platform and ensuing digitalisation of everyday life; the reproduction of (un)even development through sustainability transition; and the power relations inherent in, and that emerge from these transformations at a range of scales.
KE6041 -
Geographies of Home, Belonging and the Intimate (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about wider societal and political frameworks shaping experiences and practices of home, belonging and the intimate and how to critically examine the ways in which home as a political and embodied space is being experienced, governed, contested and transformed.
Key themes that run throughout the module include: Geographies of home on different scales from the intimate and domestic to the global; intimate and emotional geographies and ideas of home as embodied, and the ways in which home can invoke a sense of belonging intimately tied to a sense of self but can also be a space that might be dangerous, violent and alienating; Migration, belonging, transnational and global ways of home-making as well as feminist, anti-racist and postcolonial approaches to home which reveal a complex and contested space of home and belonging that is shaped by intersections of migration and citizenship status, race and coloniality, gender, sexuality and class.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-geography-extended-degree-uusxgg1:
Z090
First entry onto this course is September 2026.
For September 2025 entry, please visit Geography BSc (Hons).
Uncover the connections between people, place, and planet.
This course explores the complex relationship between humans and the environment.
It provides a broad geographical perspective on both natural and human systems, and a mixture of knowledge and approaches from both physical and social sciences.
You’ll develop the skills to critically analyse how human activity shapes the world around us.
Taught by internationally recognised academics, the course offers opportunities to actively engage with research and real-world learning.
Field trips across the UK and Europe bring your studies to life, and options for study abroad, a work placement, or a sandwich year provide valuable global and professional experience.
By the end of the course, you will have had the opportunity to develop highly sought-after skills and become confident in your geographical knowledge making you ready to take on the next step - whether that’s further study or starting your career.
KE4016 -
Earth System Science (Core,20 Credits)
This module builds upon the core understanding of the earth system discussed in semester 1, extending your understanding of core Earth systems.
You will also be introduced to numerical modelling and programming as a way of simulating simple representations of earth systems.
As a result, this module will allow you to demonstrate: -	In-depth knowledge about earth system components and how they can be analysed using modelling -	A capability to run simple models of earth system components, visualise, analyse and interpret their results -	Basic programming experience that will be useful for continuation throughout the programme and for later employment
KE5058 -
Field Applications (Core,20 Credits)
The core of this module is a fieldtrip, during which you will undertake three days of training followed by a one day group research project on a set topic.
Finally, you will design a group research project of your own, and spend a day executing your plans.
Before the fieldtrip, you will be introduced to the topics and problems seen on site during the visit and afterwards you will spend some time working on your data on campus to prepare your seminar.
KE5059 -
Future of Ice on Earth (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn the basic concepts of glacier mechanics and the processes affecting the future of ice on Earth, set within the context of global environmental changes.
The module will provide you with the tools required to understand the physical principles impacting the future of ice on Earth.
You will learn how to run numerical models and will be provided with a general background to modelling.
You will also learn how to use large data sets of both scalar and vector quantities, how to process such data sets, display them visually, and extract information about temporal variability.
While the examples provided will relate to changes in the cryosphere, the general approach is transferrable and can be applied to other large data sets involving different sets of environmental variables.
The module consists of lectures and practicals.
The assessment of the module is by a short report (4 pages) on one of the two research projects (i.e.
ice-flow modelling and environmental mapping).
Additionally, a 3-hour written exam is held in examination period.
The final grade is based on the report (50%) and the exam results (50%).
Outline Syllabus: •	Overview of the cryosphere and its global relevance in shaping our environment •	Anthropogenic climate change scenarios and their global impacts •	The impacts of climate change on the cryosphere •	Fundamentals of glacier dynamics •	Ice sheet dynamics, instability and tipping points •	Ice-ocean interactions
KE5061 -
State of the Planet (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will explore a range of topics, such as: the current environmental state of the planet, the factors contributing to environmental degradation, and the potential solutions for mitigating these challenges; use of environmental data to address ‘real life’ problems; the socioeconomic implications of environmental issues and the challenge of achieving global political action to address them.
KE5063 -
Research in Physical Geography (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn how to design and conduct physical geography research using the scientific method.
This module will prepare you for your dissertation.
Specifically, you will learn: ?
Key employability skills such as: project design, project management, communication, individual working, time-management, critical reading, adaptability, flexibility, synthesis of information and using feedback to improve your work ?
How geography has developed as a science historically and theoretically ?
Application of the scientific method in physical geography ?
Research approaches in physical geography, including the use of primary and secondary data ?
How to evaluate a body of literature to understand a debate and to identify gaps in research ?
Research and experimental design, including setting research objectives ?
How the research process works from concept to execution ?
Risk assessment and ethical considerations of conducting research in physical geography
Translating Environmental Science into policy, outreach and decision making (Optional,20 Credits)
KE6036 -
Enhancing Geographic Skills Through Fieldwork (Optional,20 Credits)
This final year module represents a significant leap in fieldwork expertise, offering a rigorous exploration of the physical environment.
Working in diverse environments, students will study complex physical interactions, collect, analyse and present environmental data, and develop advanced research skills.
Emphasis is placed on critical thinking and problem-solving, as well as the holistic understanding of environmental systems.
Through direct field experience, students gain a deep understanding of the complexity and interconnectedness of our natural world.
You will engage in data analysis and report writing practices that elevate your employability prospects.
Collaborative work will sharpen your problem-solving abilities, preparing you for complex real-world challenges.
In addition, you will gain a sense of professional ethics, and learn how to uphold standards and regulations within your field.
By synthesizing theoretical knowledge with practical application, you will cultivate a robust and comprehensive perspective on physical geography.
This module is designed not only to instil academic excellence, but also to provide you with the tools and confidence to tackle pressing environmental challenges, building on your potential to make real-world impact.
Through interactive workshops and intensive field exercises, you will experience the dynamic, challenging, and rewarding aspects of environmental fieldwork.
By the end of the module, you will have honed your proficiency in physical geographical research and improved your data collection and interpretation abilities.
The fusion of practical and theoretical knowledge will enhance your ability to approach problems with a fresh, nuanced perspective.
Fieldwork will not only deepen your knowledge but also provide hands-on experience in the application of various scientific tools and techniques.
This, in turn, will refine your analytical skills and capacity for critical evaluation.
Your interactions with the environment will foster a deeper sense of stewardship and commitment to the protection of our planet.
A greater familiarity with contemporary environmental issues will inevitably lead to a heightened ability to contribute to solutions and navigate the complex terrain of environmental issues.
Ultimately, the skills and knowledge you gain from this module will not only benefit your academic journey but also translate into a valuable asset in your future career, including the fields of environmental science and consultancy.
The comprehensive nature of this module not only challenges you academically but also nurtures essential life skills such as resilience, teamwork, and adaptability.
Our Geography courses have a strong track record of accreditation by the Royal Geographical Society (RGS), reflecting their academic quality and relevance to the discipline.
This course is being updated with the same high standards in mind and is part of our ongoing engagement with the RGS, seeking reaccreditation before these courses begin in 2026.
This course aims to prepare you for a wide range of careers.
Throughout the course there is a focus on employability and equipping you with transferable skills valued by employers.
You can gain highly sought-after technical skills in data and geospatial data analysis and interdisciplinary thinking, as well as transferable communication, and presentation skills, that prepare you for careers in environmental management, policy, consultancy, government, teaching, or further study.
You can also choose a year in industry or study abroad, giving you the chance to apply your academic learning in real-world settings, build professional networks, and enhance key skills such as time management, communication, problem-solving, and self-management.
The course is taught by research-active academics with specialisms relevant to your learning.
Their expertise in areas like climate change, glaciers, permafrost, and Geographic Information Systems (GIS) feeds directly into teaching, allowing you to engage with current debates.
Our staff are approachable, enthusiastic, and dedicated to supporting your learning.
Dr Ed Rollason
Dr Holly East
Dr Kate Winter
Dr Vasile Ersek
Specialist facilities support your learning.
The Department’s three labs - Geography Measurement and Analysis, Palaeo and Environmental Research, and Soil and Sediment Processing - give you access to state-of-the-art equipment for hands-on experimentation.
Our field equipment includes portable tools for environmental sampling and monitoring meteorology, ecology, and pollution.
Our computing facilities give you access to industry-standard software to allow you to master skills in data analysis, modelling, and statistics.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/geography-and-environmental-sciences-foundation-year-uusghy1:
Geography and Environmental Science professionals provide solutions to many of the environmental issues facing urban and rural environments and populations.
These include physical planning; use of resources; environmental health; environmental management and life cycle analysis.
Increasingly it also includes the emergency aspects of environmental, economic and social development brought about by climate change, new ways of living, unstable earth systems and human conflict.
This foundation year bridges the gap between school and undergraduate level study, providing a broad introduction to the subjects.
The course provides both academic knowledge and practical skills, and makes use of high quality, current technology and on-site laboratories.
It is the first step towards developing the skills you will need to engage successfully with life beyond the classroom, preparing you for working in an environmental context.
Research Powerhouse: Geography
and Environmental Studies at Northumbria is ranked 2nd for research power in
the UK (REF, 2021).
Quality Teaching : Geography
& Environmental Science at Northumbria is ranked top 10 in the UK for
Teaching Quality & Student Experience (Times Good University Guide, 2025).
Following successful completion of the foundation year you will qualify to join any of the following degrees:
UCAS Code F920
The course comprises six 20-credit modules that are completed over two semesters.
These include environmental geography and environmental issues modules; sustainable development; earth resources; human geography and post-industrial landscapes; and the tutorial and fieldwork module which will help you to develop the skills to transition to University level study.
Teaching methods include lectures and seminars, practical use of tools and equipment, laboratory work, fieldwork, visits from professional speakers as well as guided and self-study.
You will get the chance to work as an individual and to learn with others in group situations.
Assessments are designed to help you develop both general and discipline specific knowledge as well as developing transferable skills including communication, research and teamwork that will prepare you for progression onto your chosen undergraduate degree.
The teaching team in the Department of Geography and Environmental Science are a diverse group of experts who share a genuine passion for their subject specialisms.
They draw on their backgrounds and experiences in both academic teaching and practice to shape the course and bring real-life experience to your learning.
As such, the course is strongly influenced by professional and industry practice and will continue to evolve in line with developments across the sector.
All of our academic staff are approachable, passionate about their subject and, above all, committed to your development, they are there to support you through every step of your foundation year.
The Department offers a host of specialist laboratory facilities, field equipment and specialist software including a qualitative research suite and social spaces to support learning.
On-site study facilities also include The Hub which is a dedicated learning area and resource centre, and The Zone – a 24/7 study space.
You will also benefit from the use of technologies to support learning, teaching and the student experience.
This includes the e-learning portal, Northumbria’s Virtual Learning Environment, which houses course materials, study notes and reading lists.
The City Campus Library provides learning resources and additional study space.
The Library, which is accessible 24/7, has achieved some of the highest levels of student satisfaction in the UK.
In addition, it has held the Cabinet Office accreditation for Customer Service Excellence since 2010.
Take a look at the facilities for the Geography and Environmental Sciences department.
Tutors and lecturers are drawn from a team of geography and environmental sciences professionals with experience in research, industry and academic teaching.
Many are actively involved in international research projects that shape their discipline.
During the foundation year they provide the support you will need to progress to your chosen degree course.
Research in this department is focused in five groups.
The foundation year prepares you to progress onto one of the undergraduate degrees from the Department of Geography and Environmental Sciences, and provides the intellectual and practical skills you will need to succeed in life beyond university, as a critical and reflective member of society.
On completion of the undergraduate degree you may go on to work in planning, sustainability, greening business, environmental management, or conservation, and fields as diverse as, cartography, pollution control, urban regeneration, local government, overseas development and teaching.
You are expected to have your own outdoor winter clothing suitable for standard UK winter conditions for use on field trips - approximate cost £300-£500.
Print costs can exceed the £10 allocation made to all students.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/geography-ba-ft-uusgey1:
UCAS Code L700
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Geography.
• Specialist equipment/materials – (walking boots and waterproofs), approximate cost up to £200 
• Print costs – can exceed the £10 allocation made to all students
• Optional field trip Level 5 - Spain - approximate cost for flights up to £200 
• Optional field trip Level 6 - Amsterdam - approximate cost for flights and accommodation up to £300

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/geography-bsc-ft-uusgeh1:
For September 2026 entry see Geography BSc.
With a broad geographical focus in your first year, this course
goes on to teach you how to understand and analyse human impact on the
environment, the world around you and all of the factors that affect this.
Through teaching delivered by our internationally recognised
academics, you will not only be learning about research but actively taking
part as a researcher.
In addition to fieldtrips in the UK and Europe, you will
also have the opportunity to undertake study abroad, or to complete a work
placement allowing you to put all of your recently acquired skills into
practise, or to undertake a combination of both as part of a sandwich year.
Throughout the degree you will develop your knowledge and a
broad understanding of geography, with a focus on physical geography, in
addition to developing intellectual and professional skills and abilities that
will benefit your future career or studies.
Research Powerhouse : Geography and Environmental Studies at Northumbria is ranked 2nd for research power in the UK (REF, 2021).
Accredited degree
programmes contain a solid academic foundation in geographical knowledge and
skills, and prepare graduates to address the needs of the world beyond higher
education.
The accreditation criteria require evidence that graduates from
accredited programmes meet defined sets of learning outcomes, including subject
knowledge, technical ability and transferable skills.
See other similar courses you may be interested in: Geography BA (Hons) , Environmental Science
UCAS Code F800
Find out what our staff and students are up to across the department.
BSc Geography utilises a range of teaching and assessment
methods and a large part of this course is delivered via lectures, seminars,
and practical activities in both the lab and field, to help you master core
professional skills.
Annual field trips to destinations in the UK and Europe will
further allow you to contextualise key issues and apply your skills in a
real-world environment.
Once you have built up your core skillset, assessments will be
undertaken via a range of methods including reports, presentations, seen exams,
 and posters.
Assessments will develop your communication skills while also
testing your grasp of the learning outcomes for each module.
Northumbria University’s BSc Geography course is taught by a team of specialist academics who are research active and publishing cutting edge work within physical geography.
This expertise feeds directly into teaching and allows you to actively participate in debates that are currently defining the discipline, with those involved in contributing to those debates.
With experts across a range of geography sub-disciplines, our academics’ specialisms include climate change, snow, glaciers, ice sheets, palaeoenvironments, permafrost, sea-level change, coasts, soils, pollution and contamination, hydrochemistry and geographic information systems (GIS).
Working alongside a number of professional bodies and organisations, you will be learning from the best.
Our staff will be there to support you though every step of your degree, providing feedback and advice on an ongoing basis.
Dr Catherine Pschenyckyj goes into detail about how she brings her research into the teaching she does at Northumbria university.
And Why she chose to teach at Northumbria in particular.
Northumbria University offers a range of specialist
facilities to support you throughout your degree.
Our Department’s three specialist laboratories – Geography
Measurement and Analysis Laboratory, Palaeo and Environmental Research
Laboratory and Soil and Sediment Processing Laboratory - allow you to get up
close and experiment using state-of-the-art equipment and computational
software.
Our extensive field equipment includes a range of portable
monitoring and analytical instrumentation (e.g.
for meteorological,  soil,
water and air pollution monitoring).
All of these laboratories allow you to develop and further
master your skills, whether you are preparing sediments, soils or biological
samples for analysis, modelling your findings using specialist 3D software or
utilising specialist statistical packages.
Throughout your course you may also undertake
environmental case studies by visiting a variety of regional, national and
international locations to practise and implement your investigative field
techniques.
Research-rich learning runs throughout the BSc
Geography course, drawing on the cutting-edge international research that is
undertaken by our academics who are actively involved in international research
projects that shape the discipline.
These findings are disseminated into the teaching environment to
further enhance your learning experience and ensure that you have first-hand
knowledge of the latest findings and developments.
Consequently, throughout your course you will have unprecedented
access to our research-active experts who will bring this subject alive with
findings from their trips to the polar regions, Canada, Laos, Romania and
Chile, amongst many others.
Research skills and good academic practice are
emphasised throughout your course and by your final year you will possess all
of the skills required to position yourself as a confident researcher, creating
opportunities for practise-based research, enhancement of employability and the
boosting of self confidence.
Employability is embedded within BSc Geography from the start,
ensuring you leave with skills that are transferrable and applicable to a
working environment.
BSc Geography will prepare you for a broad range of careers as
employers appreciate the transferable analytical, communication and
presentation skills that are acquired throughout this degree.
Graduates go on to work in a broad range of sectors that may
include tackling important real world problems in the management of the
environment or policy jobs across a wide range of industries.
Others may choose
to pursue environmental consultancy or Government, graduate training schemes,
teaching or further study.
Typically, students will opt for a year in industry or study abroad between their second and final year.
• Specialist equipment/materials – (walking boots and waterproofs), approximate cost up to £200 
• Print costs –  can exceed the £10 allocation made to all students
• Optional field trip –  flights to Europe - approximate cost up to £300
• Final Projects – (dissertation), approximate cost can be up to £300
KE4006 -
Dynamic Earth (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about the application of Earth Sciences and research techniques to understanding our Dynamic Earth.
This will provide you with the necessary understanding to a variety of issues and debates that have shaped current thinking and research in the Earth Sciences.
Through lectures, lab classesEarth Sciences and fieldwork you will learn about the Earth Sciences, including topics such as: • Earth structure, plate tectonics and origin.
• Igneous, sedimentary and metamorphic rocks – how they form, how to identify them and their associated resources.
• Seismics and radar.
• Structural Earth Sciences, types of faults and folds, and what do they show?
• How rocks become soils, basic soil characteristics and resources of soils • Earth history and a deep time perspective.
• Origins of life on Earth and uses of fossils.• Sediments and soils.
• Building stones and resources.
• Geo-hazards: causes, impacts, underlying processes and approaches to mitigation.
• Geochemistry.
A key component of the module will be the laboratory practicals that will introduce you to working in labs, using laboratory equipment and using the knowledge gained in lectures to solve problems.
You will also develop a deeper appreciation of the interaction between physical and human aspects of the environment, thereby demonstrating informed concern about the Earth and its people.
On completion of the module, you will have the Earth Science knowledge and laboratory experience to give you confidence for future study and an improved ability to link theory, practice and application will serve to enhance your future employment prospects.
KE5002 -
Cold and Palaeoenvironments (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will examine the nature of past environmental change and develop an intimate understanding of the processes and landforms of glacial environments.
You will be able to identify and utilise multiple techniques for palaeoenvironmental reconstructions.
By the end of the module you will be able to critically appreciate the role of evidence in reconstructing Quaternary environments, as well as apply your skills in data analysis and interpretation.
Topics include: • Glacial processes and landforms.
• Glacier meltwater processes.
• Glacier surface energy balance.
• Environments and climates of the Quaternary.
• Glacial – interglacial cycles.
• Proxies for palaeoclimate reconstruction, focussing on pollen and diatoms.
• Stratigraphical methods and dating techniques.
KE5003 -
Meteorology and Oceanography (Optional,20 Credits)
IIn this module you will develop a broad grounding in the sciences of meteorology and oceanography from a physical geography perspective.
In particular you will develop knowledge and understanding of: • The operation of local and global scale meteorological and oceanographic processes, their simulation using numerical models and their measurement through in situ and satellite observations.
• How atmospheric processes and surface conditions give rise to weather, including meteorological extremes and hazards • Ecosystems of the oceans and palaeoceanograpic proxies • The role of the oceanic circulation in climatic variability over a range of temporal and spatial scales.
You will develop field skills in meteorological measurement using sensors and data loggers, analysis and data presentation skills using specialist software and gain first-hand practical experience of real world environmental measurement and data visualisation techniques used widely in research and industry.
You will be assessed through: (i) a report on the practical exercises in meteorology in Semester 2 (up to 2000 words, 50% weighting); and (ii) an online test on the subject knowledge and practical exercises in oceanography, towards the end of semester 1 (2 hours, 50% weighting).
You will receive formative feedback in practical classes and summative feedback on submitted coursework.
This will provide positive criticism, identifying areas for improvement and highlighting good practice.
On completion of the module your enhanced ability to link theory and practice, confidence to approach research questions and use sophisticated tools in data analysis, and ability to communicate research results in a clear, concise and professional manner will serve to improve your future employability.
Fundamentals of Ecology (Optional,20 Credits)
KE5027 -
Research and Fieldwork in Physical Geography (Core,20 Credits)
Key employability skills such as: communication, teamwork, individual working, time-management, critical reading, adaptability, flexibility, synthesis of information and using feedback to improve your work ?
Application of the scientific method in Physical Geography ?
Evaluating a body of literature to understand a debate and to identify gaps in research ?
Developing a research idea from concept to execution ?
Advanced fieldwork techniques, risk assessment and ethics
Coastal Monitoring and Management (Core,20 Credits)
KE6001 -
Cold Landscapes (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about polar and non-polar cold landscapes.
The module will provide you with an understanding of the distinctiveness of mountain and polar cold environments.
Furthermore, it will provide  you with the physical framework to investigate a wide range of processes which operate in these landscapes.
You will learn how to interpret the interaction of physical processes in cold regions and anthropogenic drivers of change in mountainous and polar terrain.
You will learn to appreciate the significance of linking diverse disciplines such as meteorology, oceanography, glaciology, hillslopes, rivers, and snow/glacier ice to understand the past, present and future of cold landscapes on earth.
Your learning will additionally facilitate an understanding of human interaction with the physical environment.
Specific topics covered may include: • Glaciology: how do glaciers, ice caps and ice sheets move, how do they interact and shape their environment?
• Mountain Environments: the distinctive nature of mountainous landscapes • Paraglacial Geomorphology: landscape adjustment after the ice has gone • Catastrophic Rock Avalanches: can hillslope processes control rivers and glaciers?
• Glacial Hazards: hazards posed by glacier recession and climatic change, and implications for development • Mountain & polar Meteorology: geographical controls and climatic characteristics of meteorological elements • Mountain Hydrology: rates, magnitude and routing of runoff from snow, ice and paraglacial areas • History and politics of polar exploration • Permafrost and periglacial processes • Oceanography: Sea ice and the role of the polar oceans in the earth system • Resources and ecosystems: exploitation, tourism, pollution and environmental sustainability • Climate change in cold landscapes and it’s impacts on regional to global scales.
On completion of the module you will have developed an improved understanding and appreciation of the interaction between a range cold landscapes and and their connection to anthropogenic activities.
Applied Ecology and Conservation Management (Optional,20 Credits)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-global-business-management-finance-newcastle-uusgbf1:
Achieve a well-rounded understanding of business and enhance your specialised knowledge in contemporary business management models, learning to evaluate the operations of businesses worldwide in an increasingly competitive environment, with a focus on finance in an industry-oriented curriculum.
The course includes specialist modules in financial markets and institutions, international finance, and responsible management.
You'll gain firsthand experience of financial markets by using our Bloomberg terminals and seizing opportunities to build a track record and portfolio.
You will receive support in developing your critical thinking and writing skills through core modules focusing on employability and contemporary business issues.
During these modules, you will create personal applications, CVs, and cover letters as part of your overall career planning to promote future employability.
You will prepare an independent review of the literature on a contemporary business issue of your choice (discipline-specific).
This will foster independent thinking and learning while applying knowledge to specific business issues.
Accredited Course - This course is covered by the prestigious Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) accreditation for Newcastle Business School.
UCAS Code N1NJ
You will embark on a number of different modules in your first year including core modules to support your learning journey, and specialist modules within global business management and finance.
In your final year, you will be challenged through modules that allow you to take strategic consideration of business and management within a global business management and finance context, as well as a substantial research-based activity that is linked to a specific research problem within global business management and finance.
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Global Business Management (Finance) BSc (Hons).
At the end of this course there are logical career paths into business, banking, and finance, both in the UK and around the world.
Discover some of our masters course to see where your next steps in academia could be: Finance MSc .
Experience Global Business Management (Finance) virtually or in-person.
There are various books that are recommended for purchase throughout the duration of this course, with costs being approximately £500.
A number of these books will also be available in the library, in either hard and/or electronic format

Optional - Choice of field trip over the course of the programme (e.g.
dissertation workshop)
Cost to Student - Returnable deposit
International Business: Growth Strategies and Resourcing (Core,20 Credits)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-global-business-management-finance-completion-award-newcastle-uufgbf1:
UCAS Code N1NK
Your tutors will challenge you through modules that take a strategic consideration of business and management within a global business management and finance context, as well as a substantial piece of research work that is relevant to a specific research problem within global business management and finance.
The Newcastle Business School teaching team is always looking to explore new fields of knowledge and generate ground-breaking concepts and insights

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-global-business-management-human-resources-completion-award-newcastle--uufgbh1:
Achieve a well-rounded understanding of business and enhance your specialised knowledge in contemporary business management models, learning to evaluate the operations of businesses worldwide in an increasingly competitive environment, with a focus on human resources in an industry-focused curriculum.
With a human resources specialism as part of your degree award, you’ll build your professional and practice capabilities through problem-based and experiential learning.
This approach will equip you with the skills and qualities sought by employers across the private, public, and not-for-profit (NFP) sectors that underpin successful enterprise.
Business Studies at Northumbria is ranked 6th in the UK (Daily Mail University Guide 2025).
Business and Management is ranked 9th in the UK for research power (REF 2021).
UCAS Code N1NG
We act as a force for good – driving real change and making a positive impact on people, our planet and prosperity.
Your tutors will challenge you through modules that take a strategic consideration of business and management within a global business and human resources context, as well as a substantial piece of research work that is relevant to a specific research problem within global business and human resources.
See all Modules for this course .
Meet the staff who teach on this programme .
At the end of this course there are logical career paths into business and human resources, both in the UK and around the world.
You can also undertake further study at postgraduate level with a course such as our Business with Human Resource Management MSc.
Experience Global Business Management (Human Resources) virtually or in-person.
Contemporary issues in Business and Management (Core,20 Credits)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-global-business-management-human-resources-newcastle-uusgbh1:
UCAS Code N1NH
You will embark on a number of different modules in your first year including core modules to support your learning journey, and specialist modules within global business and human resources.
In your final year, you will be challenged through modules that allow you to take strategic consideration of business and management within a global business and human resources context, as well as a substantial research-based activity that is linked to a specific research problem within global business and human resources.
See all modules for this course .
The course includes the ‘Academic Skills and Employability’ module that will equip you with the knowledge and skills for academic success and long-term career development.
Resourcing and Development for Diversity (Core,20 Credits)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-global-business-management-human-resources-london-uufghl1:
In a recent report, it was found that 26% of CEOs ranked talent shortage as the top damaging factor to business outlook (Gartner, 2024), highlighting the pressing concern of finding and retaining skilled employees for many companies today.
Human Resources plays a key role in all businesses, from talent acquisition, employee training and development, to reinforcing the values of the business, HR helps to drive employee engagement and maintain a positive business culture.
The BSc (Hons) Global Business Management (Human Resources) programme will develop your knowledge and understanding of key areas of global business management, whilst exploring the theory and practice of human resources to prepare you for roles such as Human Resources Manager and Head of Operations.
The BSc (Hons) Global Business Management (Human Resources) programme has been designed specifically to provide you with a broad foundation of business and management knowledge while developing your understanding, application and critical evaluation of human resources in a global context.
Upon graduating from this course, you will be able to pursue roles within business management and human resources, both in the UK and around the world, including:
Graduates of this programme will also be ready to specialise further through postgraduate studies in Business and Management with Human Resources specialism related Master’s programmes in the UK or abroad.
**Applicants holding a relevant business and management qualification in addition to one of the following will also be considered: DipHE, any Level 5 award such as Certificate, Diploma or NVQ.
Non-standard entry : please note that applicants without formal qualifications yet with appropriate work experience are also encouraged to apply.
International Year One Students joining on Level 4 will study our International Year One.
Visit the International Year One course page for detailed modular content.
Students joining on Level 4 will study our International Year One.
Human Resource Management Essentials Whether you progress to be a manager or into any role dealing with people, this module will provide both the theory and practice of HR functions.
It will equip you with a practical overview of core HR areas, including recruitment and selection, performance management, total reward, managing absence and well-being.
Managers are likely to play a crucial part in several core HR processes, such as ensuring they have the right people on their teams who can perform effectively.
This module will allow you to understand and explore key strategic decision-making aspects and their interface with cultural contexts, including: International market entry and growth Communicating across cultures International business protocol Ethics and responsible business Managing the value chain in international business Digital Business Models, Marketing and Operations This module allows you to learn about business decisions in the context of contemporary digital business examples.
You will consider strategies, such as the subscription models used by Spotify, and online marketing tools used throughout the customer journey.
You will develop an appreciation of core metrics that allow businesses to assess their marketing success in real-time.
You will also have the chance to explore how supply chain systems are designed to meet the challenges of today’s digital business.
Resourcing and Development for Diversity This module offers you the chance to examine how HR practices can ensure a diverse and inclusive workforce.
You will explore how norms and stereotypes have developed and how they can be challenged, for example through monitoring workforce demographics, mentoring and zero tolerance of discrimination.
You will also understand how to support inclusion and diversity, including values of openness, listening to diverse perspectives and inclusive participation in decision-making.
Whether you progress to be a manager or into any role dealing with people, this module will provide both the theory and practice of HR functions.
Digital Business Models, Marketing and Operations This module allows you to learn about business decisions in the context of contemporary digital business examples.
This module allows you to learn about business decisions in the context of contemporary digital business examples.
This module offers you the chance to examine how HR practices can ensure a diverse and inclusive workforce.
Students with HND merit standard or Foundation Degree in a related field can join the programme directly on Level 6 and top-up their qualification to an honours degree in one year.
Undergraduate Consultancy Project (40 credits, optional) The module aims to provide you with an opportunity to integrate the knowledge acquired during the programme and apply this to a consultancy project for a real organisation.
This consultancy project provides a vehicle for participants to develop and demonstrate key employability skills, relate theory to practice, and undertake a significant piece of assessed work commensurate with a capstone module.
You will work on behalf of an external organisation, which has identified a business problem or question, requiring a solution, working in a small group of typically 4 individuals (you will select their own team members), participating in group and individual activities.
The host organisation will provide a project briefing and review; students will be supported by appropriate academic input and guidance from Newcastle Business School in the form of a mentor and via the Business Clinic.
Management and HRM Dissertation (40 credits, optional) The Dissertation takes an enquiry research-based approach, providing you with the opportunity to examine, in-depth, an HRM or Management-related problem or issue of direct interest and/or that faces you from with your working life or work placement.
Initial weekly lectures build from Level 5 ‘Management Research and Analysis’.
You then work guided by your supervisor to confirm your research area, generate empirical (primary) or secondary data, analyse this data and draw theoretically informed conclusions.
Supervisors are appointed in line with NBS policy, which recognises the requirements of professional bodies (CMI and CIPD) and AACSB accreditation.
The module aims to equip you with the necessary intellectual and practical skills for undertaking your individual learner-led, responsible, ethical investigation, while concurrently you will further develop key transferable, employability and enterprise skills including problem-solving and analysis, creative-thinking, time and project management, negotiation, communication (written, aural and verbal), persuasion and influence, discovery, initiative.
Management Enquiry for Management and HRM (40 credits, optional) The Management Enquiry module is your chance to undertake your own independent investigation into an applied business problem or issue.
It builds on the knowledge you’ve already developed in the HRM or Management programmes, with initial lectures introducing you to the underpinning knowledge and theories needed to get you started.
Once you’ve submitted your enquiry proposal, you’ll work through one-to-one or small-group supervision with your allocated supervisor.
They’ll provide you with ongoing formative feedback on your progress as you engage with the Management Enquiry process.
Supervisors will be appointed in line with NBS policy which recognises the requirements of professional bodies (CMI and CIPD) and AACSB accreditation.
The Dissertation takes an enquiry research-based approach, providing you with the opportunity to examine, in-depth, an HRM or Management-related problem or issue of direct interest and/or that faces you from with your working life or work placement.
Career Development and Research Informed Learning This module equips you with the necessary knowledge and transferable skills to enhance your employability, future career development and academic studies for your final year of undergraduate study.
Contemporary Business Enquiry This module will help you draw on your range of knowledge and skills developed during your studies to review research literature and evaluate business and management responses to a contemporary issue.
This module equips you with the necessary knowledge and transferable skills to enhance your employability, future career development and academic studies for your final year of undergraduate study.
Responsible Strategy In this module, you will learn about the context of responsible strategic thinking and how to identify and explore sustainable business opportunities as a source of competitive advantage.
Transforming Self and Organisations Successive crises and organisational failures demonstrate that the conventional management of organisations and their people is not wholly effective.
Transforming Self and Organisations will support you to develop alternative approaches through a research-rich curriculum that will develop your understanding and application of critical management tools and perspectives.
By exploring identity, aesthetics, power and culture, you’ll develop your capabilities for questioning the neoliberal status-quo and the politics of managerialism and performance-driven agendas.
You’ll interrogate and challenge typically taken-for-granted assumptions within organisations to recognise the inherent power and control that exists, and then propose change within these organisations to prioritise fairness, justice, equality, diversity and sustainability.
Your learning will place you in good stead to bring about future organisational transformation.
These critical perspectives on organisations may also cause you to challenge your own assumptions, values and beliefs.
Project Management Globalisation and huge advances in technology have created opportunities for organisations – but they’ve also exposed them to threats and challenges.
Effective project management can be a key tool for ensuring that organisations adapt to a fast-changing environment.
It also supports the delivery of improved products, services and processes, and allows for the successful execution of organisational strategy.
What’s more, effective project managers are crucial to organisations seeking to successfully achieve their performance objectives.
This module seeks to develop you as a project management practitioner.
You’ll acquire knowledge and skills to plan and manage various aspects of a project, such as its stakeholder relationships, scope, cost, schedule and risk, and in doing so will enhance your employability.
Working as a team, you’ll have the opportunity to apply your knowledge and skills to a specific project and use advanced IT software to manage a project more effectively.
Ethics in Business After undertaking this module, you will be able to identify the normative presuppositions involved in ethical dialogue and use this in your analysis of ethical issues.
Successive crises and organisational failures demonstrate that the conventional management of organisations and their people is not wholly effective.
Globalisation and huge advances in technology have created opportunities for organisations – but they’ve also exposed them to threats and challenges.
Institute code: N77 Course  code: N1NG (level 6), N1NH (level 5)
You can apply online to study the BSc (Hons) Global Business Management (Human Resources).
Multiple entry points directly onto Year 1, 2 and 3 available
From IELTS 5.5 with no single element below 5.5, or equivalent

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-global-business-management-logistics-and-supply-chain-london-uuflbs1:
Logistics remains one of the UK’s most significant employers: in 2023, there were 214,160 logistics businesses operating in the UK, employing around 8% of the nation’s workforce (Logistics UK, 2024) and the sector added £185 billion of value to the UK economy in 2022 (The Logistics Report Summary, 2024).
The BSc (Hons) Global Business Management (Logistics and Supply Chain) programme will develop your knowledge of supply chain and logistics processes within and organisational context.
Developing both your hard and soft skills, the programme will allow you to become a potential manager equipped not just with business intelligence but also with cultural awareness.
The BSc (Hons) Global Business Management (Logistics and Supply Chain) programme has been designed specifically to provide you with a broad foundation of business and management knowledge while developing your understanding, application and critical evaluation of human resources in a global context.
By graduating with a degree in Global Business Management (Logistics and Supply Chain) you can expect to secure a job in areas such as Operations Management, Materials Management, Purchasing and Quality Management.
Graduates of this programme will also be able to undertake Post Graduate studies in Logistics, Operations and Supply Chain related Master programmes in the UK or abroad.
Applied Logistics and Supply Chain Management Effective supply chain management is key in a competitive marketplace, with high demand of the related necessary skills.
This module introduces you to the essentials of logistics and supply chain management.
You will have the chance to apply to real-world business practices through various tasks including an online supply chain simulation.
You will also develop your independent research skills, problem solving and analytical skills, while increasing your awareness of supply chain management.
International Operations Management Successful international operations management is crucial for supporting the creation of wealth for businesses and value for customers through products and services.
This module will prepare you to become a successful leader in sustainable business management in an international context, developing key problem solving skills and knowledge through interactive activities in seminars and webinars.
Effective supply chain management is key in a competitive marketplace, with high demand of the related necessary skills.
Successful international operations management is crucial for supporting the creation of wealth for businesses and value for customers through products and services.
Management and HRM Dissertation (40 credits, optional) The Dissertation takes an enquiry research-based approach, providing you with the opportunity to examine, in-depth, a  Management-related problem or issue of direct interest and/or that faces you from with your working life or work placement.
Management Enquiry (40 credits, optional) The Management Enquiry module is your chance to undertake your own independent investigation into an applied business problem or issue.
It builds on the knowledge you’ve already developed on the  Management programmes, with initial lectures introducing you to the underpinning knowledge and theories needed to get you started.
The Dissertation takes an enquiry research-based approach, providing you with the opportunity to examine, in-depth, a  Management-related problem or issue of direct interest and/or that faces you from with your working life or work placement.
Career Development and Research Informed Learning This module equips you with the necessary knowledge and transferable skills to enhance your employability, future career development and academic studies for final year undergraduate study.
Supply Chain Innovation Allowing you to explore and research supply chain innovation topics, this module focuses on managing innovation in supply chains, supplier development for innovation, new business models and new technologies.
Seminar activities involving case studies will give you a practical understanding of the area, boosting essential business skills to prepare you for a career in the industry.
Global Supply Network Management Global supply network management is at the core of the design, functioning and management of global supply chains and networks.
The module provides you with relevant knowledge on supply networks, their complexities, and related sustainable solutions in global and local contexts.
Interactive and engaging seminar and webinar-based lecture sessions will enable you to build problem-solving skills, apply them to practical situations that are likely to occur in your professional life and critically assess the solutions offered.
You’ll write up your experience, evaluation and reflection in an individual report for the module assessment achieved through research tutored and enquiry-based learning.
Supply Chain Innovation
Allowing you to explore and research supply chain innovation topics, this module focuses on managing innovation in supply chains, supplier development for innovation, new business models and new technologies.
Global supply network management is at the core of the design, functioning and management of global supply chains and networks.
This bursary is effective for intakes in May 2025, September 2025, January 2026 and May 2026..
Institute code: N77 Course  code: N1NB (level 6), N1NA (level 5)
You can apply online to study the BSc (Hons) Global Business Management (Logistics and Supply Chain).

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-global-business-management-logistics-and-supply-chain-completion-award-newcastle-uufgbs1:
Achieve a well-rounded understanding of business and enhance your specialised knowledge in contemporary business management models, learning to evaluate the operations of businesses worldwide in an increasingly competitive environment, with an emphasis on logistics and supply
chain management (LSCM).
This course includes specialist modules in supply chain innovation and global supply network management, and is designed to be a stepping stone to careers in the LSCM, which is having a profound impact on
organisational efficiencies.
There are exciting and rewarding careers in
purchasing, logistics, planning, international trade, and imports/exports, and the UK's top 10 food retailers have voted LCSM as their most vital management area.
You will be supported to develop your skills in critical thinking and writing
techniques during the course of the year with core modules which focus on
employability, and contemporary business issues.
During these modules, you will
develop personal applications, CVs and cover letters as part of overall career
planning to promote future employability.
You will be asked to prepare an
independent review of the literature on a contemporary business issue of your
choice (discipline specific), which will develop independent thinking and
learning, whilst applying knowledge to specific business issues.
Research Powerhouse: Business and Management is ranked 9th in the UK for research power (REF, 2021).
UCAS Code N1NB
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Global Business Management (Logistics and Supply Chain) BSc (Hons).
Your tutors will challenge you through modules that take a strategic consideration of business and management within a global business management and LSCM context, as well as a substantial piece of research work that is relevant to a specific research problem within global business management and LSCM.
At the end of this course there are logical career paths into global business management and LSCM roles, both in the UK and around the world.
You can also undertake further study at postgraduate level with a course such as our Global Logistics, Operations and Supply Chain Management MSc.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-global-business-management-logistics-and-supply-chain-newcastle-uusgbs1:
Student Rated: 100% of students studying Business and Supply Chain Management at Northumbria believed that their course enabled them to develop knowledge and skills needed for their future (NSS, 2024).
UCAS Code N1NA
You will embark on a number of different modules in your first year including core modules to support your learning journey, and specialist modules within global business management and LSCM.
In your final year, you will be challenged through modules that allow you to take strategic consideration of business and management within a global business management and LSCM context, as well as a substantial research-based activity that is linked to a specific research problem within global business management and LSCM.
View all staff profiles .

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-global-business-management-london-uuflbn1:
The UK set a new record of 5.63 million active companies registered with Companies House at the end of 2024, an increase of 3% on the year before, according to the NatWest and Beauhurst New Startup Index (NatWest, 2025).
As businesses continue to grow both in the UK and worldwide, future employees will need to develop the skills to navigate the complexities of the global business environment.
The BSc (Hons) Global Business Management (Top-up) programme will develop your knowledge, understanding, application, and critical evaluation of key subjects related to global business management.
The internationalised curriculum will boost your awareness of the globally diverse environment in which modern businesses and management operate, preparing you for a career in the UK or around the world.
The BSc (Hons) Global Business Management programme has been designed specifically to provide you with a broad foundation of business and management knowledge while developing your understanding, application and critical evaluation of a broad range of subjects related to global business management.
Graduates of this programme are well placed to progress into successful business and management roles, with typical jobs including:
Graduates of this programme will also be ready to specialise further through postgraduate studies in Business and Management related Master’s programmes in UK or abroad.
International Year One (Level 4)
Academic Skills and Employability This module supports the development of the specific skills necessary to successfully manage your studies and effectively communicate your ideas within the UK higher education community.
It also focuses on boosting your employability options by developing career-smart skills and knowledge necessary to obtain an undergraduate placement or graduate-level role after completing your degree.
Communications and Content Marketing Marketers have an important job: to create exciting marketing communications and online content which grabs their target audiences’ attention.
But their campaigns must also effectively convey the brand and fuel customer desire to interact with the organisation and make a purchase.
Using a hands-on approach, this module introduces you to a range of key marketing methods, inviting you to analyse and critique the content and communications strategies of well-known organisations.
You’ll consider the effectiveness of these strategies through the lens of theory and best practice and create alternative approaches.
In particular, the module focuses on the importance of understanding the needs and wants of Generation Y & Z consumers, and the media and messages most likely to appeal to them.
This module supports the development of the specific skills necessary to successfully manage your studies and effectively communicate your ideas within the UK higher education community.
Marketers have an important job: to create exciting marketing communications and online content which grabs their target audiences’ attention.
You will study one of three optional modules plus the common modules listed below.
Initial weekly lectures build from Level 5 ‘Management Research and Analysis.
Digital and Data-Driven Marketing Marketing thrives on data.
All business types – large e-commerce, small business or personal website – rely on countless marketing tools to capture and use relevant data.
In this module, you will explore contemporary digital media channels and how to use them to understand the way people interact with your business.
You will also develop your ability to use real data and turn it into actionable information to create an integrated marketing campaign as part of a national student competition.
Marketing thrives on data.
If you are an international student, you can apply to us directly following the instructions below.
Institute code: N77 Course  code: N1N0 (level 6), N1N1 (level 5)
You can apply online to study the BSc (Hons) Global Business Management.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-global-business-management-marketing-completion-award-newcastle-uufgbk1:
Achieve a well-rounded understanding of business and enhance your specialised knowledge in contemporary business management models, learning to evaluate the operations of businesses worldwide in an increasingly competitive environment, with a focus on marketing management in an industry-focused curriculum.
With a marketing specialism as part of your degree award, you can expect to stand out with specialist modules in responsible marketing strategy and digital and data driven marketing.
Research Powerhouse : Business
and Management is ranked 9th in the UK for research power (REF, 2021).
This
is a rise of 51 places, the largest rise in the sector.
Top 10: Business Studies at Northumbria is ranked 6th in the UK (Daily Mail University Guide, 2025).
Accredited Degree : This course is covered by the prestigious Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) accreditation for Newcastle Business School.
According to AACSB, 'Approximately 6% of the world's schools offering business degree education have achieved AACSB accreditation, demonstrating a commitment to high-quality, rigorous standards, innovation, and continuous process improvement'.
UCAS Code N1ND
Your tutors will challenge you through modules that take a strategic consideration of business and management within a global business management and marketing context, as well as a substantial piece of research work that is relevant to a specific research problem within global business management and marketing.
See all Modules on this course .
Meet our staff who teach in this department .
At the end of this course there are logical career paths into global business management, marketing, advertising, and PR, both in the UK and around the world.
You can also undertake further study at postgraduate level with a course such as our Digital Marketing MSc .
We create confident leaders with the drive and talent to inspire and achieve results.
Careers Guidance
Route To Success
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Global Business Management (Marketing) BSc (Hons).
Digital and Data Driven Marketing (Core,20 Credits)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-global-business-management-marketing-newcastle-uusgbk1:
UCAS Code N1NC
You will embark on a number of different modules in your first year including core modules to support your learning journey, and specialist modules within global business management and marketing.
In your final year, you will be challenged through modules that allow you to take strategic consideration of business and management within a global business management and marketing context, as well as a substantial research-based activity that is linked to a specific research problem within global business management and marketing.
See all the Modules for this course.
These include critical reflection and self-learning, collaboration and curiosity, and the ability to apply your knowledge to solve problems in ways that are sustainable and ethical.The course includes the ‘Academic Skills and Employability’ module that will equip you with the knowledge and skills for academic success and long-term career development.
Communications and Content Marketing (Core,20 Credits)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-global-business-management-marketing-completion-award-london-subject-to-validation-uuflbk1:
The Digital 2025: Global Overview Report highlights that internet users grew by 136 million in 2024, however also found that 2.63 billion people were still offline at the start of 2025.
This emphasizes that marketing expertise is more crucial now than ever for businesses who want to effectively engage with both the expanding online audience and the offline market.
This BSc (Hons) Global Business Management (Marketing) programme will allow you to explore contemporary issues in marketing, including online and offline operations and various marketing tools used throughout the customer journey.
It will equip you with essential skills for a successful career in areas such as Operations and E-Commerce Management.
The BSc (Hons) Global Business Management (Marketing) programme has been designed specifically to provide you with a broad foundation of business and management knowledge while developing your understanding, application and critical evaluation of marketing in a global context.
Graduating with a degree in Global Business Management (Marketing) will set you on the right track for a career in areas such as Operations Management, Lead Production Management, E-Commerce Management.
Graduates of this programme will also be able to undertake Post Graduate studies in Marketing related Master programmes in UK or abroad.
Market Research and Planning Marketing research and marketing planning are core activities for just about every successful organisation today.
It’s therefore vital for you as a marketing student to develop skills in these areas.
Once you’ve completed this module, you’ll have learned how to conduct quantitative data analysis using SPSS software, as well as qualitative research and data analysis skills.
You will learn how to make use of research findings in producing research- and evidence-driven marketing plans.
These skills are directly applicable in the workplace and highly desirable for employers as a result.
Marketing research and marketing planning are core activities for just about every successful organisation today.
Marketers have an important job: to create exciting marketing communications and online content which grabs their target audiences’
attention.
But their campaigns must also effectively convey the brand and fuel customer desire to interact with the organisation and make a
purchase.
Using a hands-on approach, this module introduces you to a range of key marketing methods, inviting you to analyse and critique
the content and communications strategies of well-known organisations.
Dissertation (40 credits, optional) The Dissertation takes an enquiry research-based approach, providing you with the opportunity to examine, in-depth, a Management-related problem or issue of direct interest and/or that faces you from with your working life or work placement.
It builds on the knowledge you’ve already developed in the Management programmes, with initial lectures introducing you to the underpinning knowledge and theories needed to get you started.
The Dissertation takes an enquiry research-based approach, providing you with the opportunity to examine, in-depth, a Management-related problem or issue of direct interest and/or that faces you from with your working life or work placement.
Contemporary Business Enquiry This module will draw on learning across your undergraduate programme, allowing you to focus on critical thinking and reflection.
You will develop an enquiring mind and undertake a critical review of existing literature on a contemporary issue within business and management, collecting and analysing research, reviewing literature and evaluating business practice and theory.
This module will draw on learning across your undergraduate programme, allowing you to focus on critical thinking and reflection.
Responsible Marketing Strategy In today’s competitive global market, sustainability and social responsibility have become increasingly important.
This module will introduce you to responsible marketing strategies, marketing theories and sustainability-related literature.
You will have the chance to practically apply the theory through various tasks leading to the development of a marketing strategy for a new product idea.
You will learn key skills including research, strategic and critical thinking, and the ability to shape and implement effective marketing strategies.
These will prepare you for your career and boost your employability.
You’ll write up your experience, evaluation and reflection in an individual report for the module assessment, achieved thorough research tutored and enquiry-based learning.
Digital and Data Driven Marketing Marketing thrives on data.
In today’s competitive global market, sustainability and social responsibility have become increasingly important.
Institute UCAS code: N77 Course UCAS code: N1ND (level 6), N1NC (level 5)
You can apply online to study the BSc (Hons) Global Business Management (Marketing).
Year Two Entry

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-global-business-management-completion-award-newcastle-uufgbn1:
Achieve a well-rounded understanding of business and enhance your specialised knowledge in contemporary business management models, learning to evaluate how businesses operate globally in an increasingly competitive environment.
The course will enable you to develop your knowledge of key business disciplines, exploring the current business and management challenges in human resource management, marketing, strategic and project management.
Moreover, this course supports your academic skills development and employability opportunities while providing knowledge of contemporary business management models in small, medium and large businesses in local, national or international locations.
Teaching Quality : Business Studies at Northumbria is ranked 6th in the UK (Daily Mail University Guide, 2025).
Research Power : Business and Management is ranked 9th in the UK for research power (REF, 2021).
UCAS Code N1N0
Your tutors will challenge you through modules that take a strategic consideration of business and management within a global business management context, as well as a substantial piece of research work that is relevant to a specific research problem within global business management.
Experience Global Business Management virtually or in-person.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-global-business-management-newcastle-uusgbn1:
UCAS Code N1N1
You will embark on a number of different modules in your first year including core modules to support your learning journey, and specialist modules within global business management.
In your final year, you will be challenged through modules that allow you to take strategic consideration of business and management within a global business management context, as well as a substantial research-based activity that is linked to a specific research problem within global business management.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-global-development-dtfglb6:
Interested
in tackling global challenges like poverty, inequality, and the climate crisis?
This Global Development course, formerly known as International Development, offers a critical, up-to-date
understanding of the field of global development.
The course also has a 16 month full tine option or the option to complete a year in practice.
Engage with
key concerns such as environmental and social injustices; conflict and displacement; technology, innovation and decolonising development; and examine global policies, theories, and practices.
Benefit from specialist expertise in the pioneering Centre for Global Development and the Disaster and
Development Network (DDN),
Gain theoretical, analytical and practical knowledge and skills through interactive teaching.
Our
multidisciplinary course prepares you for a career in global development, for example in non-governmental
organisations, government, or multilateral organisations.
Discover more about this course from a student point of view.
Optional Field Trip module (subject to availability)  - should students opt for the module 'International Development Study Visit', costs for flights and visas will be incurred.
For example, in 2024/25 students had the option of a study visit to Kerala, India with the costs of flights and visas totalling £1300.
KE7044 -
Global Development Futures (Core,20 Credits)
This module aims to provide you with a critical understanding of key debates shaping Global Development Futures.
The module examines cutting edge developments in the sector, in the context of demands for innovative responses to issues such as climate change and adaptation, equitable resource management, and decolonising development, including nascent technical fixes and conceptual frameworks disrupting the contemporary development landscape.
The module uses the lenses of ‘infrastructures’, ‘economies’ and ‘communities’ to develop an in-depth understanding of innovations across a range of scales, which are re-shaping local and global economies, and the way development is practiced.
Practical exercises will help you apply your critical understanding to real-world case studies.
KE7045 -
Geopolitics of Development (Core,20 Credits)
This module aims to provide you with a critical understanding of the key contemporary experiences, policies and debates that characterize development in a time of significant geopolitical change and shifting relationships.
The module will enable you to develop cutting edge and nuanced analyses of the changing landscape of global development, and to locate a range of important actors in the global development arena.
The module critically debates historical relationships between aid and development, and the predominance of western development agendas and approaches; the emergence of new state and non-state actors, and with this new forms of development cooperation that may transcend the traditional and hierarchical North-South aid relationship; and the implications for development theory and practice.
Practical exercises will apply your understanding of geopolitical change and its impacts, to real-world case studies.
KE7046 -
Critical Development Thinking (Core,20 Credits)
How can we explain the continued presence of poverty in many parts of the world?
How does development happen?
What does development actually mean?
This module will critically debate theories of development and the roles of key actors including international organisations, the state, transnational civil society, NGOs and local communities.
This will include the different and often contrasting and contradictory roles these actors play, and the ways in which this is captured in different approaches to development theory.
The module will begin by examining debates within development theory and the different propositions that were made to overcome the ‘development impasse’ between state and market led approaches, and post-colonial critiques of traditional development theories espoused after World War II (modernisation theory, dependency theory and World Systems Theory).
The module then goes on to explore the meaning of development and ideas of Orientalism, before examining the mainstream neoliberal development project.
The module will then engage with a range of critical responses to development, including postcolonialism, the work of Amartya Sen and Martha Nussbaum and the capabilities approach; alter-globalization; cosmopolitanism; and feminist approaches to theorising development, as well as alternative theoretical approaches coming from the Global South.
KE7047 -
Contemporary Global Challenges (Core,20 Credits)
What are some of the key problems in global development?
How can we provide solutions for poverty, hunger, environmental degradation, health and sanitation?
This module provides you with an opportunity to explore contemporary global challenges and to develop problem solving skills around real world issues.
The module will bring together the theory and methods part of the programme.
Topics you will explore include – but are not limited to – poverty and inequality, hunger, health, sanitation or environmental degradation.
You will learn about conflicting theories of solving these problems, contested debates about what poverty and inequality mean and how they are produced and who produces them, and what the best ways are to combat widespread problems such as hunger or environmental pollution.
This course
equips you with the skills and knowledge to tackle urgent global challenges
like inequality, the climate crisis, conflict and disasters.
You’ll
enhance your career prospects with tailored career support and networking
opportunities.
The chance
to base your dissertation on independent fieldwork provides real-world
experience and industry connections.
Graduates pursue careers with NGOs,
charities, government agencies, or launch their own initiatives.
Others move
into research, consultancy, or academia, with Alumni working for Barnardo’s,
The Refugee Council, and the International Rescue Committee.
The course
is taught by internationally recognised academics with extensive experience in
global development across the global North and South.
You’ll also attend guest lectures from experts who are currently working
within the sector, and who will share their first-hand experience of what it’s
like to work in the field of global development.
Staff on the MSc Global
Development course bring their cutting-edge research into the classroom
through case studies, problem-solving, and group discussions.
Their expertise
spans environmental governance, the climate crisis, gender inequalities, migrant
mobilities, and decolonial approaches to development, with a focus on Africa,
Asia, and Latin America and the Caribbean.
Members of
the team are experts in participatory, decolonial and
creative methodologies and in working collaboratively with development
organisations.
You’ll
have the chance to conduct your own research and engage with development
organisations in the UK and internationally.
Professor Katy Jenkins
Professor Stephen Taylor
Dr Oliver Hensengerth
Dr Pete Howson
Centre for Global Development (CGD)
Discover more about the CDG
Our campus
encompasses a range of learning spaces, including the Qualitative Research
Suite , The Zone , The Hub and our University Library.
The Qualitative Research
Suite: Offers facilities for interviews, focus groups, and workshops, with
recording equipment and transcription software.
The Zone: A 24/7 study area
with workstations for group or individual study.
The Hub: A collaborative space for Geography & Environmental Science students, with
computers and large tables for individual or group work.
24/7 Study Space

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-global-development-with-advanced-practice-dtsgdp6:
2 years Full Time
This Global Development course, formerly known as International Development, offers a critical, up-to-date understanding of the field of global development.
The course also has a 12 month full time option and a 16 month full time option, both without advanced practice .
The Advanced
Practice element of the course offers hands-on learning experiences beyond your
studies.
This 60-credit module is designed for all full-time postgraduate
programmes within the Faculty of Engineering and Environment and provides you
with the opportunity to undertake a Live Project (including the possibility of
live research project work with staff) for one semester as part of your
programme (the first semester of year 2 in this case).
This
experience gives you the opportunity to apply skills and knowledge acquired
during the taught part of your programme and to acquire new skills and
knowledge in an alternative learning environment.
Your learning goals and development
plan will be tailored to you through a formal learning contract.
Assessment
emphasises self-reflection, helping you evaluate your progress.
By engaging
with real-world challenges, you’ll build resilience, flexibility, and a fresh
perspective on your field, ready for employment beyond graduation.
Your
Advanced Practice semester will be assessed on a pass/fail basis and as such,
it does not contribute to the classification of your degree.
However, when
taken and passed it is recognised both in your transcript as a 60 credit
Advanced Practice Module and in your degree title.
This course equips you with the skills and knowledge to tackle urgent global challenges like inequality, the climate crisis, conflict and disasters.
You’ll enhance your career prospects with tailored career support and networking opportunities.
The chance to base your dissertation on independent fieldwork provides real-world experience and industry connections.
Graduates pursue careers with NGOs, charities, government agencies, or launch their own initiatives.
Others move into research, consultancy, or academia, with Alumni working for Barnardo’s, The Refugee Council, and the International Rescue Committee.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-global-development-dtfglv6:
16 months Full Time
January 2026 or January 2027
The course has entry points in September or January, as well as the option to complete a year in practice.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-global-human-resource-management-dtfghr6:
Join our Global Human Resource Management Masters and broaden your knowledge and enhance your career prospects.
Organisations pursuing successful globalisation or
internationalisation require high-quality and diverse workforces.
An efficient
system of global human resource management will help those be successful with
the sustainable competitive advantage of human capital.
This program aims to
help you develop and cultivate capabilities in discovering contemporary
challenges and issues facing human resource management practitioners in modern
organisations.
You will “be ready for the real world” by applying scientific
and practical knowledge and skills in decision-making and strategic thinking
for global human resource management.
Why choose Northumbria to study Global Human Resource
Management MSc?
Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD)
This course is fully certified by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD).
Students need to join as CIPD Student members and successful completion of the programme leads to Associate membership (enabling the use of the designatory letters Assoc CIPD).
CIPD membership grants you access to top-tier resources, support for training, and professional networks that can enhance your expertise in the field of human resource management.
The course will provide you with an opportunity to:
This course is widely open to students who are interested in
international human resource management.
This course is also suitable for those
pursuing careers in global organisations.
Whether you have just graduated with
an undergraduate degree or are someone who has been in work but wants to
upskill or perhaps change direction, this course is appropriate for a variety
of people who want to become an HR professional.
You will be part of a diverse
student cohort working collaboratively through practice, learning from your
peers and our academic staff.
The Castle Peak Group Scholarship
Your tutors will use a variety of teaching methods, including: lectures, case discussions, seminars, practical exercises, and workshop activities supported by tutor-led directed learning.
The focus will be on your application of theory to ‘real life’ situations, critically analysing and making recommendations for appropriate ways forward.
As this is a Masters course there is a major element of independent learning and self-motivated reflection.
Our assessment strategy is based on our understanding that everyone has different needs, strengths and enthusiasms.
Assessment is based on course work and our methods will include essays, reports, group work, presentations, and either the master’s dissertation, or consultancy project.
Our staff are actively pushing at the frontiers of knowledge in this field and generating new concepts and insights.
Business and Management at Northumbria is ranked 9th in the UK for research power (REF 2021), with the quality of our research, teaching and engagement with businesses further enhancing our global reputation.
Newcastle Business School is part of a select group of business schools worldwide, with accreditation by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) in business and accounting – the first business school in Europe to gain this double accreditation.
Founded in 1916, AACSB International is the longest serving global accrediting body for business schools that offer undergraduate, masters, and doctoral degrees in business and accounting.
Newcastle Business School provides first-class teaching in a world-class environment.
From social spaces and hub areas to lecture theatres and exhibition spaces, our facilities are exceptional.
The University has also invested heavily in IT labs and facilities.
You’ll use software such as ARIS Express Business Process Modelling, various SAS applications, Microsoft Project, specialist decision-making software, and Google Analytics.
As a Masters student you’ll develop your research skills to a new and higher level.
Your research supervisor will help you submit a proposal for your Masters dissertation, or consultancy project and then discuss its development through to completion in the final semester.
If you decide on a consultancy project rather than a dissertation, you’ll still undertake primary and desk-based research.
Through this you’ll gain, and be expected to demonstrate, a deep understanding of the issues that are involved in a topic of your choosing.
With conferences and research events regularly taking place, and with staff discussing their own research as it relates to the topics you’ll study, there’s a strong emphasis on you engaging in up-to-date enquiry-based learning.
This course will prepare you to become an HR professional in several organisations that deal with a global workforce, this could include organisations such as consulting firms, banks and large multinationals.
The course could also lead you to a postgraduate research degree such as an MPhil, PhD or Professional Doctorate.
These include the ability to tackle complex issues through conceptualisation and primary research, the ability to contribute to new processes and knowledge, and the ability to formulate balanced judgements when considering incomplete or ambiguous data.
HR9781 -
Global HR Practices and Fundamentals (Core,20 Credits)
Understanding human resource management in a global context is critical for business managers as globalisation provides increasing opportunities for companies to grow and be competitive in more diverse and international contexts.
This module provides you with an overview of the field and a new set of contemporary principles, theories and concepts for managing employees within the context of the growing internationalisation of a business.
This module focuses on the implications of the rise of multinational corporations and foreign direct investment for international human resource management and the challenges of managing a diverse workforce across national borders.
This module will help you critically examine the impacts of institutional environments, international labour regulations and global business ethics on the choice and effectiveness of HR practices.
The course also helps you learn and adopt a comparative discussion of convergence and divergence of human resource practices across national contexts.
You will learn to understand the fundamental HR functions and the responsibilities of HR professionals across national borders to help businesses achieve employee and firm outcomes.
Finally, you will reflect on and gain an in-depth knowledge of the challenges and opportunities that companies face in managing people and workplaces at the global level.
Key themes: HR practices of multinational corporations and subsidiaries, institutional environments, cross-culture, comparative human resource management, HR functions.
Topics may include: •	specific international HR functions (such as recruitment and selection, training and development, expatriation and repatriation, pay/rewards systems, performance management, career development) •	high performance HRM systems •	'home-country' and ‘host-country’ effects shaping multinational and subsidiary employment practices across borders •	convergence and divergence of HR practices •	international assignments as an HR tool •	equity and diversity dimensions of MNC HRM practices •	the role of culture and business ethics in global HR management •	corporate social responsibility issues in global HR practices •	global talent management •	implications of outsourcing and offshoring for HR practices in a global context
HR9782 -
Cross Cultural Organisational Behaviour (Core,20 Credits)
The module aims to develop your theoretical and practical knowledge and understanding of cross-cultural behaviour at work.
Cross-cultural organisational behaviour refers to organisational behaviour in different cultural contexts.
You will learn a wide range of research-based theories and practice related to cross-cultural organisational behaviour.
These include topics such as, cross cultural psychology theories (e.g.
Hofstede, Childs, Trompenaars, etc); organisational environments and complexities in international business environments; expatriation and repatriation; employee motivation and managerial environment; global leadership and cultural competence; managing change, communication and negotiations across cultures; managing multicultural and bi-cultural individuals; cross cultural teams and knowledge exchange in in person, hybrid and dispersed settings; diversity and inclusion in global MNCs, etc.
Given the challenges associated with cross-cultural work we will also discuss the role of IT in facilitating cross-cultural understanding but also issues around health and well-being.
HR9783 -
Human Resource Analytics and Decision Making (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn to interpret the four key sources of information for decision makers which are identified by CIPD: scientific literature, organisational data, expertise and judgement of practitioners, managers, consultants and business leaders, and stakeholders.
Drawing on the growing interest in and expectations of the role that analytics can play in improving Human Resource (HR) Management in global organisations you will understand how the growth in Big Data, the challenges in managing this, and the principles of quantitative analysis can be applied to HR management to increase knowledge and operational practice by demonstrating impact and enhancing strategic decision making.
You will also gain the skills needed to work with statistics and Big Data to use evidence to solve problems in an organisational context.
These may include (but will not be restricted to) looking at stakeholder engagement, data management and visualisation methods, and working with metrics and statistical modelling.
HR9784 -
Comparative Employment Relations (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about the growing interest in and expectations of the role that comparative employment relations (in countries such as UK, Germany, France, Italy, USA, Japan, China and Australia), as well as UK employment law can play in Human Resource (HR) Management in organisations.
You will also consider the continued significance of the European Union and how much Brexit has changed that.
You will understand employment relations in developing countries, about the importance of employment relations movements in developing countries, and the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and alternative forms of workers organising together (– as many multinational corporations now operate in developing countries).
You will understand how the principles of comparative employment relations can be applied to HR Management to increase knowledge and enhance strategic decision making in areas such as workforce planning, performance management, and retention.
HR9785 -
Contemporary Issues in Global HRM (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about the contemporary and timely issues associated with human resource management and about managing human resources in a global context.
You will learn the concepts, principles, theories, and techniques and how to apply and evaluate the principles and theories to authentic cases and scenarios in contemporary organisations.
Complementary to this is insight into global contemporary issues in human resource management and a well-rounded and specialised ability to identify and integrate these issues in contemporary organisations in the global context.
Topics may include: •	Managing an international workforce, •	Managing racism and discrimination in global context, •	Agile workforce, flexibility, and change, •	Future of work, •	Digital transformation, •	Knowledge sharing and transfer in multinational corporations and cross border alliances •	People and skills required in global context, •	Social trends and sustainable strategic goals, •	Engaging people
HR9786 -
Research Methods for HRM (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn about a comprehensive range of research methods and data analysis techniques.
This will equip you with the knowledge and practical skills necessary for you to conduct HR research at Masters’ level and prepare you to complete a Master’s HRM Dissertation, HRM Consultancy Project or HRM Enquiry.
By the end of the module, you will know how to apply both quantitative and qualitative data collection and data analysis techniques.
In addition, you will gain some understanding of research philosophy (positivism and interpretivism) and research ethics, and you will be able to write a research proposal to bring these ideas together.
This module will provide clear, critical, and analysis of quantitative and qualitative data.
HR9789 -
Masters HRM Enquiry (Optional,60 Credits)
The Masters’ HRM Enquiry module is a student-led individual project that enables you to undertake a significant piece of assessed work commensurate with a capstone module and is offered as an alternative to the Masters’ Dissertation and Masters’ Consultancy Project in the MSc in Global HRM programme.
The module aims to provide you with an opportunity to demonstrate an authentic engagement with managers and/or professionals in the HRM discipline, and to integrate the knowledge you have developed during your programme to explore the theory in practice.
Through the module you will be offered the opportunity to develop and enhance key transferable employability skills, including time management, project management, communication (written, aural and verbal), negotiation, persuasion and influence, discovery, initiative, problem-solving and analysis.
It is expected that you will apply non-verbatim documented conversation and provide evidence of the key ideas emerging within the submitted enquiry report (e.g., within the appendices).
This live data may be primary data (e.g., further interviews with, or questionnaire to, managers and/or professionals in practice) or secondary data (e.g., industry data).
Reflect and Connect: Demonstrating an ability to critically evaluate and reflect on the issues arising from the HRM Enquiry.
HR9791 -
Masters HRM Dissertation (Optional,60 Credits)
The dissertation module aims to enable you to develop intellectual and practical skills for undertaking an individual student-led, ethical investigation into a HR focussed business problem or issue.
Using appropriate research methodologies and data collection methods, you will critically synthesise a body of Human Resource Management knowledge, relevant to the programme, with an organisational issue that you have identified.
You will then provide recommendations for improvement change based on your analysis.
By the end of the module, you will have written a 15000 word Masters dissertation.
The areas included are: • Justification for the choice of topic • Appropriate understanding, awareness and critical analysis of existing and up to date literature evidenced by a comprehensive and well-referenced literature review with an extensive reference list • Selection, justification and application of an appropriately rigorous methodology - including limitations of the approach selected • Clear statement of the findings of the research • Critical analysis of the findings • Explicit links between the analysis and the conclusions supported by critical argument • Evidence of original work or thought for example in the form or context of the data collected, analytical process or application of findings
HR9792 -
Masters HRM Consultancy Project (Optional,60 Credits)
On this consultancy based module you will enhance your individual HRM effectiveness and employability skills by locating your learning and development in an organisational context.
In doing so, you will promote personal and group development, HRM awareness, and a range of inter-personal, intellectual and practical skills and knowledge centred on and demonstrated through a group negotiated real-time work-based project.
The syllabus will include: • Conducting HRM research in organisations.
• Identifying researchable questions.
• Consultancy and project management skills.
• Research methods and doing a literature review • Presentation, communication and report writing skills.
• Analysing findings.
• Writing recommendations and action plans.
• Reflecting on work based experiential learning.
In undertaking this project based module, you will critically reflect and evaluate upon HRM practices and their relation with academic theory, and in doing so, provide practical and actionable recommendations through an investigative management report.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-global-logistics-operations-and-supply-chain-management-london-dtfgsl6:
The MSc in Global Logistics Operations and Supply Chain Management has been designed to enable you to acquire an in-depth understanding of the major areas of knowledge and philosophical approaches that underpin the concept of the Global Supply Process.
The programme philosophy is to develop this knowledge and understanding of the specialist area of supply chain management, whilst placing it firmly within an organisational context.
The key specialist modules are resultant from both academic and professional influence as to strategic change factors within the global supply process.
We also offer this programme online and part-time over 2 years – perfect if you need to balance studying with work or other commitments.
The MSc Global Logistics Operations and Supply Chain Management programme provides an intensive logistics, operations and supply chain management education for students entering at Level 7 from an undergraduate degree of any discipline including business and management.
The curriculum is informed by the latest research and aligned to the practical and employability skills required for a successful career across a wide range of sectors and businesses and its applications are relevant to careers in both the manufacturing and service sectors.
An experiential, or ‘real-world’, approach to learning will ensure you are exposed to current professional practice, and the modules will equip you with the skills to contribute effectively to global businesses.
Given the continuous change in the logistics, operations and supply chain management field, you will be encouraged to innovate and apply emerging models, theories, technologies and ideas to solve business problems specific to this suite of related disciplines.
With the substantive content of the programme being discipline-specific (i.e.
logistics, operations and supply chain management),
The specialist GLOSCM modules cover strategic procurement, sustainable supply chains, improving the supply chain, and strategic partnerships.
The course culminates with a master’s dissertation.
This programme is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply (CIPS) and the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT).
Graduates can expect to secure roles in areas such as Operations Management, Materials Management, Purchasing and Quality Management.
This programme is also available as MSc Global Logistics, Operations and Supply Chain Management with Advanced Practice which includes either an internship or group consultancy project.
Whilst you are welcome to apply because of your relevant work experience, you must have a clear commitment to a professional career that comprises one of the areas of logistics, operations management or supply chain management.
Applications will be considered on an individual basis.
Strategic Supply Chain Relationship and Innovation This module is designed to equip you with the necessary knowledge, skills and techniques to be able to formulate a Logistics and Supply Chain Management understanding of Strategic Supply Chain Relationships and related Innovation Management.
The module emphasises the contribution of Logistics and Supply Chain Management disciplines to organisational strategy.
Exposure to contemporary developments in this arena will allow you to evaluate and assess the potential for the adoption of these developments as complementary or alternative procedures in the management of the supply chain, with a particular focus on managing innovation in supply chains through reference to international supply chain relationships.
Examples of such developments include the role of blockchain technology and the development of globally integrated supply chains.
There is a strong emphasis on relationships within your learning, with consideration given to the logistics partnership, supplier and partnership development, making change happen and developing frameworks for managing change.
The international focus of the module is recognised by consideration of cross-cultural management Global Supply Chain and Operations Improvement This module aims to provide you with an underpinning knowledge about supply chain and operations improvement, whilst investigating the ongoing developments in theory and practice within the global context.
You will learn strategic theories and gain the knowledge associated with performance improvement inside, outside and beyond the organisations that enable value chain strategies to be put in place.
The key themes include: Global Operations and Supply Chain Strategy, Quality Management Models, Strategies and Systems Industry 4.0 Robotic Process Automation Service Operations Improvement Performance Measurement and Benchmarking Global Supply Chain issues Process and Product Design Global Logistics and Transport etc.
Supply Chain Sustainability, Resilience and Risk Management This module aims to give you an in-depth understanding of the fundamental principles of contemporary supply chain sustainability, resilience and risk within a business context.
This research-informed module provides a series of evidence-based lectures, designed to create a better understanding of key logistics and supply chain challenges and issues, with a focus on social, economic and environmental considerations and environmental policies.
It will help you to understand how key stakeholders operate, regulate, decide and function in the real world.
It will identify, prioritise, reflect and conceptualise green supply chain management / sustainable supply chain management together with risk and risk-resilience concepts in the context of business continuity against the key priorities of environment, economy, safety, public health, social inclusion, accessibility and integration.
Strategic Procurement and International Logistics This module aims to provide you with an appreciation of the synergy between strategic procurement and logistics management.
The focus is given to processes that add value through the production and delivery of services and products in the supply chain, and the tools needed to manage these processes effectively.
Furthermore, you will be given a comprehensive understanding of modern approaches to strategic procurement and logistics management throughout the supply chain.
On completion of the module, you will be able to critically analyse the approaches to managing procurement and logistics management used by a variety of product and service organizations operating in a global business environment.
In the first part of the module, you will be supported in self-analysis by a range of activities, including the completion of self-administered toolkits to demonstrate an increased self-awareness and self-understanding.
A key outcome of this process is how you will be able to exploit this development in order to lead and manage, more effectively in your future careers.
Research Methods and Analytics for Business Practice This module will provide you with essential knowledge and analytics skills needed for you to complete a high-quality Masters’ Dissertation or Consultancy Project.
By undertaking and reflecting on practical research-based activities you will understand the process of designing and carrying out a research study, also you will engage in activities that involve an understanding of data and analysis of data.
This will place you in a strong position to undertake your own Masters’ level research or Consultancy Project.
Academic Language Skills for Post-Graduate Business Students (0 credits) The aim of this module is to support your study, language and communication skills for academic purposes in the study in your chosen discipline at the postgraduate level.
The module is supported by a teaching and learning plan which outlines the formal sessions.
You may also be asked to complete some preparation tasks for some seminars but these will be kept to a minimum.
You will be expected to identify those skills which you need within your postgraduate programme, and to develop these independently through a range of learning activities that might include extended reading and reflection.
The Newcastle Business School Masters Dissertation (60 credits) You will design a research project, assessed through a proposal and will then work under the supervision of a member of academic staff to use and extend the knowledge and skills that you have acquired during your programme of study to complete a dissertation.
In this module, you will gain an understanding of the academic skills that are required to produce a Masters Dissertation.
By the end of the module, you will have written a 3000-word dissertation proposal and a 15000 word Masters dissertation.
This module is designed to equip you with the necessary knowledge, skills and techniques to be able to formulate a Logistics and Supply Chain Management understanding of Strategic Supply Chain Relationships and related Innovation Management.
The international focus of the module is recognised by consideration of cross-cultural management
This module aims to provide you with an underpinning knowledge about supply chain and operations improvement, whilst investigating the ongoing developments in theory and practice within the global context.
The key themes include:
This module aims to give you an in-depth understanding of the fundamental principles of contemporary supply chain sustainability, resilience and risk within a business context.
This module aims to provide you with an appreciation of the synergy between strategic procurement and logistics management.
This module will provide you with essential knowledge and analytics skills needed for you to complete a high-quality Masters’ Dissertation or Consultancy Project.
The aim of this module is to support your study, language and communication skills for academic purposes in the study in your chosen discipline at the postgraduate level.
You will design a research project, assessed through a proposal and will then work under the supervision of a member of academic staff to use and extend the knowledge and skills that you have acquired during your programme of study to complete a dissertation.
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study the 1 year MSc Global Logistics Operations and Supply Chain Management .
For students undertaking an internship
Masters Internship (60 credits) Within this module, you will record your learning experience gained by undertaking a semester outside of the University as part of your Masters programme by means of an Internship at an external organisation and it will enable you to assess the learning that has taken place in the University with a “real-world” industry experience.
You will then progress onto The Newcastle Business School Masters Dissertation.
Within this module, you will record your learning experience gained by undertaking a semester outside of the University as part of your Masters programme by means of an Internship at an external organisation and it will enable you to assess the learning that has taken place in the University with a “real-world” industry experience.
For students not undertaking an internship
Business Clinic PG Group Consultancy Project (60 credits) As a student enrolled on one of the 2-year Advanced Practice Programmes you may undertake a group consultancy project within the first semester of your second year of Masters study (the alternative is an Internship).
Through your work-based experience, you will develop abilities as a problem solver with valued investigative, theoretical and practical industrial skills.
Depending on the grade you achieve, you will progress onto the Applied Management Work Investigation or the Newcastle Business School Masters Dissertation.
As a student enrolled on one of the 2-year Advanced Practice Programmes you may undertake a group consultancy project within the first semester of your second year of Masters study (the alternative is an Internship).
Depending on what grade you achieve for the Consultancy Project, you will progress to one of the following modules
Applied Management Work Investigation (60 credits) You will undertake a group consultancy project within the Business Clinic during the first semester of your second year of Masters study.
Through your work-based experience, you will develop your ability as a problem solver with valued investigative, theoretical and practical business skills.
This second-semester module will involve the development of the client-oriented management report and presentation alongside an individual literature review and personal reflection.
You will undertake a group consultancy project within the Business Clinic during the first semester of your second year of Masters study.
Once you’re ready to apply, you can apply online to study the MSc Global Logistics Operations and Supply Chain Management with Advanced Practice.
Minimum 2:2 honours degree from a UK university, or equivalent in any discipline (although they may cover Business and Management, Operations Management, Engineering or Transportation)
Minimum 2:2 honours degree from a UK university, or equivalent, in any discipline
IELTS 6.5 , with no single element below 5.5, or equivalent
21 months

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-global-logistics-and-supply-chain-management-dtfgsc6:
We welcome applications from both business and non-business graduates, with an interest in a specialist Masters’ education.
You will develop your operation, production, service management, leadership competence and confidence within a business context.
We will focus on applying these skills globally and in manufacturing, service and public sectors in order to prepare you for a high earning career in business.
The specialist logistics, operations and supply chain management modules cover strategic procurement and logistics, sustainable supply chains and risk management, improving the operations and supply chain, and strategic partnerships.
Our assessment strategy is based on our understanding that everyone has different needs, strengths and enthusiasms and so this course will appeal to various types of learners.
You will have the option of finalising your studies with a traditional Master’s dissertation or, a more hands-on consultancy project, where you will tackle an issue faced by a real client.
On the Business Logistics Masters, you will gain an appreciation of the interaction between strategic procurement and logistics management.
Focus is given to processes that add value through the production and delivery of services and products in the supply chain, and the tools needed for effective process management.
You will learn the fundamental principles of contemporary Supply Chain Risk Management and Sustainable Supply Chain Management, within a business context.
Learning these skills will enable you to help organisations achieve a sustainable, competitive advantage as part of their movement towards realising 'triple bottom line' (TBL) benefits.
This Global Logistics Operations and Supply Chain Management MSc is well-received within industry.
The course also boasts multiple accreditation's including; The Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (UK) (CILT).
This course is also accredited by CIPS (Chartered Institute for Purchasing and Supply).
Learn with the best minds: 9th in the UK for research power.
You will learn in depth knowledge
on the management of operations and supply
chains and how these are reliant on the improvement and integration of numerous
functions within an organisation that must work together cohesively.
The
improvement in operations and supply chains is considered in local, national
and international contexts with particular attention to the contexts of quality
and efficiency and their tools and techniques.
On the Global Logistics Operations Masters, you will gain an appreciation of the synergy between strategic
procurement and logistics management.
Focus is given to processes that add
value through the production and delivery of services and products in the
supply chain, and the tools needed for effective process management.
You
will also gain exposure to the fundamental
principles of contemporary Supply Chain Risk Management and Sustainable Supply
Chain Management within a business context.
This course also includes a residential
day for the leadership and team-building event,
which is aimed at strengthening skills in team working, emotional and cultural
intelligence, self-reflection, independent learning and critical thinking.
You will identify how these
principles contribute to optimisation of operational efficiency, organisational
excellence, and by minimising organisational and environmental risk, help
organisations achieve sustainable competitive advantage as part of their
movement towards realising 'triple bottom line' (TBL) benefits.
Key areas of research from the teaching staff include operations improvement, efficiency and optimisation, supply chain risk management, sustainability and resilience, and operations and supply chain innovation.
Prof Alireza Shokri
Dr Sadaat Yawar
Dr Wiehua Zhang
Dr Zaina Gadema-Cooke
What’s more, there are plenty of opportunities to put your learning into practice through.
If you decide on a Master’s consultancy project, rather than a
dissertation, you’ll still undertake primary and desk research.
Through your
reading, reflection and research, you’ll be expected to show a deep
understanding of the issues that are involved in the client brief.
Throughout your course you’ll be an active participant in the on-going
research agenda that’s at the heart of Newcastle Business School.
With
conferences and research events regularly taking place, and with staff
discussing their own research as it relates to the topics you’ll study, there’s
a strong emphasis on engaging in up-to-date enquiry-based research-rich learning.
The course includes a focus on
developing leadership and management competencies.
Topics studied  include emotional intelligence, intellectual
competence, cultural awareness and the ability to work in diverse groups and
teams.
There is a specific focus on self-development, including formal sessions
with our Careers and Employment Service which offers a range of workshops,
one-to-one advice, and networking opportunities.
Our graduates typically go into
graduate positions in areas such as operations management, materials
management, purchasing, advanced logistics, and quality management.
Roles of
recent graduates include supplier quality manager, continuous improvement
manager, procurement manager and consultant, quality manager and consultant, transport
consultant, distribution services manager, e-commerce operations manager,
freight account manager and logistics project manager.
A Postgraduate in Global Logistic Operations could also lead you to
a postgraduate research degree such as an MPhil, PhD and Professional
Doctorate.
Whatever you decide to do, you
will have the transferable skills that employers expect from a Master’s
graduate from Northumbria University.
These include the ability to tackle
complex issues through conceptualisation and undertaking research, the ability to
contribute to new processes and knowledge, and the ability to formulate
balanced judgements when considering incomplete or ambiguous data.
This course is certified by the Chartered Institute of logistics and transport, and students are eligible to get a membership based on the payment of £42 for the membership.
The total fees for the first 20 students would be £800.
Forecasting and Predictive Analytics (Optional,20 Credits)
BM9721 -
Project Management in Operations and the Supply Chain (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module, you will learn about the role of a project and project manager in logistics, supply chain and operations management, and the concepts and techniques required to manage the core aspects of a project.
The main topics covered include fundamental theories, knowledge, and techniques required to manage projects in a contemporary logistics, supply chain and operational setting.
•	Understanding how projects drive change and achieve strategic goals in logistics, supply chain and operations.
•	Realising the role of project manager in various organisational structures and cultures.
•	Focusing on systems and structures as the means of systematising operations and working practices.
Drawing on contemporary project management research and business case studies on logistics, supply chain and operations, this module will develop your knowledge, skills, and confidence in managing projects in a global logistics and supply chain environment.
Your learning will take place though lectures and workshops.
You will be exposed to a wide range of project management literature as well as business cases on operations and supply chain management to broaden your understanding of project management in a global environment.
On completing this module, you will be able to utilise appropriate project management techniques and skills to manage different projects effectively and efficiently in operations and supply chain management.
You will be able to critically challenge the assumptions and practices in contemporary settings.
MO9700 -
Global Supply Chain and Operations Improvement (Core,20 Credits)
This module addresses global contemporary operations and supply chain issues, challenges, strategies and tools and will develop you as an active learner.
The mission of this module is three-folded: 1.
You will learn strategic theories and gain knowledge associated with performance improvement inside, outside and beyond the organisations that enable value chain strategies to be put in place.
The key themes include: •	Global Operations and Supply Chain Strategy •	Quality Management Models, Strategies and Systems •	Industry 4.0 •	Robotic Process Automation •	Service Operations Improvement •	Performance Measurement and Benchmarking •	Process Improvement strategies •	Lean Management •	Location Management •	Supplier Development •	Global Supply Chain issues •	Process and product Design •	Postponement •	Global Logistics and Transport 2.
This module aims at developing your practical problem solving skills in the global operations and supply chain context by analysing contemporary issues through interactive case study analysis in each of the weekly seminars.
You will have opportunity to analyse cases relevant to the various theoretical themes and discuss with your tutor, fellow students and team members to answer the relevant questions with the facilitation of your seminar tutor.
Your development in linking theory into practice is supported by regular seminar-based analysis of contemporary case studies that align to the different theoretical themes presented in the modules through the lectures.
This practical seminar work further supports your development in team-based research and underpins the module’s assessment activities.
You will have opportunity to learn more about critical reading and writing of peer reviewed academic journal articles individually and with your seminar group.
You will develop your team-based research skills including collaboration, research framework development and oral presentation.
On completing this module, you will be able to demonstrate your developed capability to analyse global operations and supply chain issues, underpinned by relevant knowledge and be able to implement suitable improvement strategies and tools.
MO9701 -
Strategic Supply Chain Relationships and Innovation (Core,20 Credits)
This module is designed to equip you with the necessary knowledge, skills and techniques to be able to formulate Logistics and Supply Chain Management understanding of Strategic Supply Chain Relationships and related Innovation Management.
Exposure to contemporary developments in this arena will allow you to evaluate and assess the potential for the adoption of these developments as complementary or alternative procedures in the management of the supply chain, with particular focus on managing innovation in supply chains through reference to international supply chain relationships.
Examples of such developments includes the role of blockchain technology and the development of globally integrated supply chains.
The international focus of the module is recognised by consideration of cross-cultural management and exploration of intercultural encounters taken from the supply chain management perspective.
The integrative nature of operations management is reinforced through consideration of its interface with disciplines such as marketing.
Your strategic and cross-functional understanding is further reinforced through participation in a business simulation, where in teams, you operate in a competitive environment as new-market entrants.
This will provide opportunity to make strategic-level decision, further reinforcing the strategic importance of operations as a sole function and one working in an integrative way with other disciplines such as finance, marketing and human resources.
MO9702 -
Supply Chain Sustainability, Risk and Resilience Management (Optional,20 Credits)
This module aims to give you an in depth understanding of the fundamental principles of contemporary supply chain sustainability, resilience and risk within a business context.
You will learn of contemporary sustainability and supply chain issues from the perspective of local and global supply chains and urban cities.
The international perspectives that inform the module include both first world and emerging economy perspectives.
This module demonstrates how the overarching global drive for sustainable supply chains, chain resilience and risk are key in the push for sustainable cities and delivering  more sustainable, flexible and resilient chains of supply in the UK and beyond.
The module explores the ways in which good practice in these fields underpinned with theoretical relevance can contribute to the optimisation of operational efficiency, manage waste streams, build in risk-resilience, socially just, transparent and accountable supply chain organisations and contribute towards the Circular Economy.
It also examines organisational excellence, how contemporary organisations mitigate/adapt to risk and can play a role in improving conditions such as public health, social justice and environmental risk and seek sustainable competitive advantage(s) for the fruition of broader ‘triple bottom line’ (TBL) benefits.
The content of the module comprises several key parts which are listed below: •	Moving from ROI and Profits to a Circular Economy •	Risk: Vulnerability, Disaster and Resilience Management •	Scenario Planning •	Climate Change, Carbon Footprinting and Life Cycle Assessment •	Green Supply Chain Management •	Sustainable Development, SDGs and the ‘Supply Chain Code of Conduct’ •	Global sustainability implications for developing countries and their economies •	Ethics, CSR, Vested sourcing/outsourcing •	Environmental Standards and Compliance •	EIO - Environmental Input-Output Analysis •	Waste Management
MO9703 -
Strategic Procurement and International Logistics (Optional,20 Credits)
This module aims to provide you with an appreciation of the synergy between strategic procurement and international logistics management.
Furthermore, you will be given a comprehensive understanding of contemporary approaches to strategic procurement and logistics management throughout the supply chain.
On completion of the module ,you will be able to critically analyse the approaches to managing procurement and logistics management used by a variety of product and service organizations operating in a global business environment.
The content of the module comprises various key parts which are listed below.
Introduction to purchasing and SCM The purchasing processes Supplier - quality management, evaluation and selection Negotiation and Contract management /incoterms Supplier management and development - creating a world-class supply base and worldwide sourcing Digitalisation of procurement and IT benefits evaluation Supply chain continuity management Knowledge management and innovation management in supply chains Outsourcing/re-shoring management and power in supply chains Change management in supply chains Scope of Materials Management and International Logistics The effects of ROI and Profits Customer Service Purchasing - the 5 'rights'-Partnership Sourcing Inventory Management  - Strategy MRP and ERP Channel and Network Strategy Materials Handling and Storage Information Technology in International Logistics

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-global-logistics-and-supply-chain-management-with-advanced-practice-dtsgsc6:
In the second year of this course you will have an opportunity to undertake an Industry Consultancy Project creating the opportunity for you to apply the knowledge and skills you have gained during your first year of study, to a real-life industry issue from a range of employers.
During the course you will develop your operation, production, service management, leadership competence and confidence skills within a business context.
We will focus on applying these skills globally and in manufacturing, service and public sectors, in order to prepare you for a high-earning career in business.
Our assessment strategy is based on our understanding that everyone has different needs, strengths and enthusiasms, so this course will appeal to various types of learners.
This advanced practice will enrich your learning experience and gives you hands on, practical experience in order to help you stand out to employers.
You will gain an appreciation of the management of
operations and supply chains and how these are reliant on the improvement and
integration of numerous functions within an organisation, which must work
together.
The improvement in operations and supply chains is
considered in local, national and international contexts, with particular
attention to the contexts of quality and efficiency and their tools and
techniques.
On the programme, you will gain an appreciation of the synergy
between strategic procurement and logistics management.
Focus is given to processes that add value through the
production and delivery of services and products in the supply chain, and the
tools needed for effective process management.
You will also gain exposure to
the fundamental principles of contemporary Supply Chain Risk Management and
Sustainable Supply Chain Management within a business context.
You will identify how these principles contribute to
optimisation of operational efficiency, organisational excellence, and by
minimising organisational and environmental risk, help organisations achieve
sustainable competitive advantage as part of their movement towards realising
'triple bottom line' (TBL) benefits.
Your tutors will use a variety of teaching methods including
lectures, seminars and workshops.
As this is a master’s course there is a major
element of independent learning and self-motivated reflection.
Teaching is backed up by a well-designed support system that
helps ensure a successful learning journey.
We make sure that extensive
feedback, from both tutors and peers, is built into the course.
During the second year you will have the chance to undertake a consultancy project for a whole semester.
You will follow this up with an Applied
Management Work Investigation Report that will critically analyse an issue related
to your practical experience.
Our assessment strategy is based on our understanding that
everyone has different needs, strengths and enthusiasms.
Assessment methods
include assignments, presentations, exams, and the master’s dissertation or
consultancy project.
The University has also invested heavily in IT labs and
facilities.
Business software includes various statistical, analytics and
decision-making applications.
Technology Enhanced Learning (TEL) is embedded throughout
the course with tools such as the ‘Blackboard’ eLearning Portal and electronic
reading lists that will guide your preparation for seminars and independent
research.
At Northumbria it’s easy to put your learning
into practice.
In addition to the Advanced Practice element of the course,
further opportunities for experiential learning are available through our
Student Engagement Centre which promotes volunteering and placements.
The
Business Clinic enables our
students to participate in a ‘consultancy firm’ to provide advice for our
region’s businesses on issues that include operations, logistics and supply
chain management.
If you decide on a master’s consultancy project, rather than
a dissertation then you will still undertake primary and desk research.
Through your
reading, reflection and research, you will be expected to show a deep
understanding of the issues that are involved in the client brief.
Throughout your Global Logistics Operations Masters you will be an active participant in
the on-going research agenda that’s at the heart of Newcastle Business School.
With conferences and research events regularly taking place, and with staff
discussing their own research as it relates to the topics you’ll study, there’s
a strong emphasis on engaging in up-to-date enquiry-based learning.
The course
includes a focus on developing leadership and management competencies.
Topics studied
include emotional intelligence, intellectual competence, cultural awareness and
the ability to work in diverse groups and teams.
There is a specific focus on
self-development, including formal sessions with our Careers and Employment
Service which offers a range of workshops, one-to-one advice, and networking opportunities.
In the second year of the course you will be putting your new learning into practice.
You will develop a track record of
achievement that will help you stand out from other job applicants.
We will help
you find a project that matches your interests and career
aspirations.
A Business Logistics Masters course that takes two years, instead of just one, will carry
particular weight with employers.
They’ll understand that you’ll have a deeper
understanding of topics as well as more hands-on practical experience.
Our graduates typically go into graduate positions in areas such as
operations management, materials management, purchasing and quality management.
Roles of recent graduates include supplier quality manager, transport
consultant, distribution services manager, e-commerce operations manager,
freight account manager and logistics project manager.
If you decide to start up your own business, it’s good to know that the
combined turnover of our graduates’ start-up companies is higher than that of
any other UK university.
The course could also lead you to a postgraduate research degree such as
an MPhil, PhD and Professional Doctorate.
Whatever you decide to do, you will have the transferable skills that
employers expect from a master’s graduate from Northumbria University.
These
include the ability to tackle complex issues through conceptualisation and
undertaking research, the ability to contribute to new processes and knowledge,
and the ability to formulate balanced judgements when considering incomplete or
ambiguous data.Newcastle
Business School provides first-class teaching in a world-class environment.
From social spaces and hub areas to lecture theatres and exhibition spaces, our
facilities are exceptional.
The 24/7 University Library achieves some of the highest levels of student satisfaction in the UK
and has held the Cabinet Office accreditation for Customer Service Excellence
since 2010.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-global-logistics-operations-and-supply-chain-management-dtfgsj6:
In the second year of this course, you will have an opportunity to undertake an Industry Consultancy Project creating the opportunity for you to apply the knowledge and skills you have gained during your first year of study, to a real-life industry issue from a range of employers.
You will have the option of finalising your studies with a traditional Masters dissertation or, a more hands-on consultancy project, where you will tackle an issue faced by a real client.
Newcastle Business School is accredited by the
prestigious Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB).
Read more about our 'double' AACSB Accreditation.
Business software includes various statistical, analytics and decision-making
applications.
Technology Enhanced Learning (TEL) is embedded throughout the course with
tools such as the ‘Blackboard’ eLearning Portal and electronic reading lists
that will guide your preparation for seminars and independent research.
Our use
of lecture capture software will help you revise challenging material.
The Student Engagement Centre promotes all types of experiential learning
including volunteering, internships and placements.
The Business Clinic enables
our students to participate in a ‘consultancy firm’ to provide advice for our
region’s businesses.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-graphic-and-digital-design-top-up-uufgdd1:
W219
Graphic and Digital Design (Top-Up) BA (Hons) gives you the opportunity to explore both traditional and emerging design practices to help prepare you for a career in the dynamic creative industries.
Build on your current design skills by incorporating the latest design thinking in combination with industry-standard practices across various platforms, including web, apps, and smart devices.
The course covers key areas such as branding, typography, editorial, digital design, UI/UX, data visualisation, and design for virtual reality.
Studio-based activities, live briefs, and critique sessions allow you to enhance your skills, helping you to develop a portfolio while staying connected to real-world design challenges.
By the end of the course, we aim for our graduates to be confident, independent designers ready for the evolving digital landscape.
BTEC HND or Foundation degree with an overall pass, in a related subject such as Graphic Design, Visual Communication, Graphic Communication, Digital Design, UX Design, Multimedia or New Media Design, Illustration, Animation, Games Design or Product Design (with strong portfolio evidence of Graphic Design or Digital Design capabilities).
Look out for module specifics coming soon.
Please keep checking this web page for updated information.
This course prepares you for a career in the fast-growing
digital design sector.
You can develop skills in UX/UI Design, Co-design,
Experiential Design, and AI-enhanced production, all in high demand across
industries.
Career paths may include roles as a UX/UI Designer, Visual
Communication Designer, Interaction Designer, and Creative Technologist, in
sectors like design agencies, consultancies, and cultural institutions.
The
course aims to build transferable skills such as creative problem-solving, critical
thinking, and collaboration for success in design careers or further study.
You will be taught by leading design practitioners and
researchers with expertise in visual communication, UX/UI, data visualisation,
and digital arts.
Our experienced team mirrors industry standards, offering
exciting briefs to help you refine your skills and prepare for a seamless
transition into the creative industry.
This course offers an authentic, experiential learning
environment with excellent facilities at Northumbria.
You'll have access to
specialist Mac labs with current creative software, workshops for both
traditional and digital prototyping, and equipment like photo labs, laser
cutting, and large-format printing.
Expert technical staff will provide
inductions and online tutorials to help you master new tools.
Our 24/7 Library
and eLearning Portal will guide your independent research and preparation.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-graphic-design-extended-degree-newcastle-uusxsn1:
Z067
Graphic Design BA (Hons) is all about encouraging your creativity and helping you think critically about your ideas.
By the time you graduate, you'll be an independent thinker who understands how theory influences your work.
You'll have a solid grasp of modern graphic design, responsible practices, creative processes, and methods.
You'll build confidence and skills in various areas of graphic design, including branding, sustainable packaging, typography, editorial and digital design, copywriting, imagery, print, experiential design, material culture, and physical production.
Our collaborative learning spaces and critique sessions allow students and staff to tackle real-world design challenges together.
Our curriculum keeps you up-to-date with the expanding and evolving creative industry.
For example, as technology evolves, conceptual thinking and visual problem-solving remain as key skills.
Throughout the course we will help you integrate these skills into your practice and prepare you for the growing design industry.
Other courses you may be interested in: Digital Design BA (Hons)
In the first year, you will collaborate with the staff team to establish fundamental knowledge and skills in Graphic Design practice, employing a ‘thinking-through-making’ methodology.
You will begin to delve into conceptual thinking (ideas) and visual problem-solving (design solutions) and their significance in professional graphic design.
You'll gain insights into materials, methods, research skills, and design, and begin crafting meaningful graphic designs using both physical and digital mediums.
During the second year, you will build upon the creative processes and methodologies introduced in the first year, focusing on producing more authentic, industry-relevant, and professional outcomes.
Digital and physical workshops will further refine your emerging creative practice and craftsmanship skills.
In the third year, you'll have the chance to enhance your career readiness, entrepreneurial spirit, and intercultural awareness through first-hand experience in the workplace or international study opportunities.
You can pursue industrial placements or opt for study abroad programs.
In your final year, your creative practice will align with your professional and personal ambitions, offering opportunities to undertake self-initiated projects and tackle industry-set creative briefs and/or competitions.
You'll explore the intersection of theory and practice while developing your professional portfolio.
This portfolio will demonstrate your ability to comprehend and interpret creative briefs, showcase your professional creative identity, skill set, methodologies, and readiness for a career to diverse audiences, all within the context of your professional aspirations.
DE4033 -
Graphic Design History, Theory & Context (Core,20 Credits)
This module will help you to understand the socio-cultural and historical development of visual communication and Graphic Design.
Through an exploration of global historical advances in visual tools and technologies, you will study how these developments in visual culture were affected by and affect, their contemporary cultures and societies.
As such, at the end of the module you will have gained an understanding how advancements in culture, society and technology inform the production of visual material and Graphic Design.
Within the module you will also be introduced to, and will utilise, visual and written analytic research methods that will enable you to develop your reflective and critical thinking capabilities, which are key skills for an emerging Graphic Designer.
Your exposure to these research methods, will support your developing knowledge of how socio-cultural ideas, such as social responsibility and an individual’s positionality, inform understandings of Graphic Design.
GD4010 -
Practice Based Graphic Design: Process and Methodology (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will learn how to develop, establish and enhance your graphic design skills by exploring key fundamental elements of graphic design theory and principles through practice-based learning.
You will be introduced to the various methods and approaches that can aid and support the creative process, including reflection and presentation.
These will give you a greater understanding of the fundamentals of graphic design, including, amongst other things, the importance of generating multiple ideas, concept visualisation, storytelling, narrative, image-making, typography, illustration, craft, and layout.
You will be introduced to the processes of immersive research, ideation, visualisation, reflection, presentation and realisation through craft-based learning.
These activities form the essential components of your design process; a process that will develop over your time on the course and into graphic design employment post-graduation.
In summation, you will be introduced to the intellectual and practical fundamentals and creative processes underpinning the practice of graphic design to improve your visual communication sensibilities and make informed choices regarding process and method in realising your concepts.
GD4011 -
Typographic Fundamentals 1: Form & Architecture (Core,20 Credits)
Through this module you’ll be introduced to the lexicon, anatomy, architecture, theories, practical skills and overarching guiding principles needed to understand this key component of the contemporary graphic designer’s arsenal: typography.
This core element of graphic design practice has a rich historical tradition that continues to inform and shape the future of our subject.
Nuanced, often misunderstood or underappreciated by some, understanding the overarching principles or form, composition, legibility, format, architecture, hierarchy and semiotics really do separate the accomplished graphic designer from the layman desktop publisher.
An ability to design and craft effectively with typography to a professional standard is a core skill that the profession consistently tells us they seek out in graduate graphic designers.
You’ll develop a deeper appreciation and understanding of typography and its many creative applications.
You’ll be introduced to the lexicon of typography, and the methodologies and processes necessary to work with it to a professional level.
We’ll introduce you to its history, present and future, in order to foster a deeper appreciation of its visible form, semiotics, and communication.
You’ll learn about the expressive and creative potential offered by typography, technical processes, methodologies and techniques through introductions that are supported by practical workshops.
You’ll learn through making, undertaking challenging and creative technical processes to help you understand established and experimental approaches to typography in graphic design.
In summation, you will be introduced to the intellectual and practical fundamentals and creative processes underpinning the application of typography within the practice of graphic design.
GD4012 -
Practice Based Graphic Design: Ideation & Visual Problem Solving (Core,20 Credits)
Through this module you’ll continue to expand the knowledge and practicalities needed to gain an intermediate understanding of graphic design theory and practice.
The work you accomplish will continue to be informed by a commitment to research, concept generation, visual problem solving and the way in which it shapes how we teach and practice graphic design.
It is the same process; the briefs will be more demanding and challenging and new knowledge will be imparted through project briefs and technical workshops throughout the module.
You will continue to solve visual problems through lateral and conceptual thinking.
We will expect more of you in your use of the processes of immersive research, ideation, and visualisation, reflection, and presentation, through to realisation through crafting.
As before, these activities form the essential components of your design process; a process that will sustain you over through the course and hopefully into design employment post-graduation.
You’ll continue to learn and develop abilities by exploring the expressive and creative potential offered by graphic design technical processes and techniques through further skills introductions supported by practical workshop activities.
Learning by undertaking new and challenging technical processes in this module, while using and developing the skills learned in earlier modules, helps you underpin novel and experimental approaches to problem solving.
In summation, you will be introduced new creative techniques while developing your intellectual awareness and creative processes that define the practice of graphic design.
GD4013 -
Typographic Fundamentals 2: Composition & Layout (Core,20 Credits)
Through this module you’ll develop what you have learned in Typography Fundamentals | Form & Architecture and start to explore more advanced applications of typography, drilling deeper into and expanding on the overarching principles in the macro and micro, including page composition, leading, kerning, lengths and spacing of lines, grid structure, paragraph settings.
You will learn advanced principles that underpin the practice and application of typography to feed and embellish your own emerging graphic design practice.
You will explore and apply said principles around type composition, legibility and the mechanics of typography, formatting, hierarchy and semiotics.
The ability to work and craft with typography to a professional standard is a core skill that the profession consistently tells us they seek out in graduate graphic designers.
You will continue to develop your knowledge and understanding of typography including key terminology, methodologies and processes necessary to work to a professional level.
We will delve deeper into its history and examine possible avenues for future forms of communication.
You will learn through making, undertaking challenging practical projects using creative technical processes to help you understand established and experimental approaches to typography within the practice of graphic design.
This will be reinforced and supported by continuing practical workshop activities.
DE5038 -
Contemporary Design & Critical Issues (Core,20 Credits)
The module explores the key and emerging trends situated within your design discipline, and functions as an important precursor to your final year study.
This module builds on your insights from the first year and continues the discussion of design’s relational and sociocultural impact on the world.
Early in the module, your tutors will present for critique examples of advanced and research-led/informed practice that will showcase the kinds of impacts.
In the second half of the module, you will be introduced to the idea of data gathering, field work as well as a range of social science methods as a way to understand human-centred design.
This will help you to understand better the dynamics of human behaviour and how it may be applied in your future design practice.
By the end of the module, you will have begun explorative research into a design problem, setting or theme of your own choosing that can be further developed during your final year modules.
GD5015 -
Graphic Design for Social Change (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you with explore how graphic design can have a measurable impact on communities and the wider world by contributing to positive social change.
Working as a team with a given brief, you will demonstrate an understanding of the topic and a justification for your design response by using appropriate levels of creativity, empathy and respect, demonstrated through your subject immersion, design research, and working journal.
You will further develop your working skills and understanding through intellectually exploring and navigating the creative process from start to finish, with particular focus given to the relationship between the key areas of immersion, design research and ideation, development and iteration, and refinement and finishing.
You will explore and develop your knowledge, working practices and understanding of graphic design through the application of appropriate design processes and methodologies.
During the module you will be presented with social challenges and will apply design thinking to navigate and broaden your understanding of how graphic design impacts societally, politically and ethically.
You will understand how design experiences can drive individual actions, and how and why they can implement change.
GD5016 -
Experiential & Collaborative Graphic Design (Core,20 Credits)
You will explore and further develop your knowledge, working practices and intellectual understanding of experiential graphic design and teamworking through the applied principles of typography and image creation/curation for physical and digital environmental applications.
Exhibition/environmental graphic design shapes the way a user interacts with a given space or environment.
You will explore narrative and storytelling through applied graphic design to a designated or chosen exhibition or public space.
You will understand how the editorial viewpoint can form the basis of a narrative platform for your communication and be conveyed through the compelling use of imagery and typography on both practical and emotional levels.
During the module, you may consider experiential techniques and technologies that can further enhance user experience and engagement.
These could include the application of sound, tactility, olfactory components, motion graphics, set props/dressing, motion triggers, video mapping, AI, VR, AR, holographic elements, or other emerging technologies.
You can explore how these could bring further dimensionality to your graphic design practice and thinking.
You will develop team-working skills, through on-going negotiation, coordination, task management and collaboration with your peers.
GD5017 -
Creative Practice: Responsible Branding (Core,40 Credits)
This module focuses on the principles and practices of responsible branding and with consideration given to packaging design.
You will explore how to apply sustainable, ethical, and/or socially aware thinking to creative branding and/or packaging solutions.
Responsible branding extends beyond environmental considerations; it encompasses ethical obligations regarding the products, services, or clients you represent.
A brand’s truth must be authentic, and as designers, we hold a responsibility to avoid misrepresentation or misleading our audience.
Through this module, you will be expected to integrate your conceptual and practical graphic design knowledge and skills, developing those through to production considerations such as materials, waste reduction, afterlife and or environmental impact.
Additionally, you will critically consider the ethical dimensions of your proposals, including the transparency and accuracy of your brand positioning and messaging.
You will be tasked with developing branding and/or packaging designs that not only meet the conceptual, practical and aesthetic needs of the project but also reflect a commitment to societal responsibility.
This includes making informed decisions about materials, production processes, and the long-term effects of your designs on both people and the planet.
You will have the opportunity to work independently, taking responsibility for your creative process and demonstrating your ability to evaluate and refine your work.
Your progress and decisions will be documented in your Working Journal, culminating in a final submission that reflects your understanding of branding and packaging as graphic designers, and your responsibility to make informed, ethical design choices while contributing to a more sustainable and transparent design industry.
DE6030 -
Future Practice In Context (Core,20 Credits)
This module will help you deliver a body of design research that will provide both contextual knowledge and intelligence to support your self-initiated studio practice.
The module is driven by discovery research where you will better understand your sector/audience/challenge space before you begin creative/conceptual development work.
We will support you by offering refresher online and live lectures, presentations and seminars on a selection of interdisciplinary methods and contemporary design challenges to help you finalise and finesse your research topic/domain.
You will be supported to develop a research report (also known as a research deck): a powerful format used in professional and research contexts that enables design researchers to articulate, insight, need and value in a host of challenge spaces.
It is also an excellent way demonstrate your maturing research, critical thinking and communication skills.
GD6016 -
Self-initiated Briefs 1 (Core,20 Credits)
This module allows you the freedom to pursue and explore a graphic design project of your own choosing or devising.
The project should involve all the creative and intellectual skills, processes and methodologies you have developed on the programme so far and should encourage a greater level of autonomous study, cumulative knowledge progression and an advanced intellectual understanding of graphic design practice, time management, decision-making, persistence and communication skills.
This is an opportunity to explore a particular area of interest or develop a portfolio of work that aligns to your career and personal ambitions.
All briefs proposed must reflect 200hrs of study and be discussed and approved by module staff prior to the start of the project.
GD6017 -
Self-initiated Briefs 2 (Core,40 Credits)
This module allows you the freedom to pursue and explore a graphic design project of your own choosing or  take on a brief set by a professional body or competition.
The project should involve the creative and intellectual skills, processes and methodologies you have developed on the programme so far and should encourage a greater level of autonomous study, cumulative knowledge progression and an advanced intellectual understanding of graphic design practice.This is an opportunity to explore a particular area of interest or develop a portfolio of work that aligns to your career and personal ambitions.
All briefs proposed must reflect  the level of study and should be discussed and approved by module staff prior to the start of the project.
GD6018 -
Vaughan Oliver: Design for Music (Core,20 Credits)
This module gives you the opportunity to embrace serendipity, experiment, and take some creative risks.
Vaughan Oliver (1957–2019) is a Northumbria BA (Hons) Graphic Design alumnus and was one of the most influential British graphic designers of his generation.
He is best known for his work with independent record label 4AD, and working with artists such as the Cocteau Twins, The Pixies and The Breeders.
His creativity inspired graphic designers as well as fashion designers, film directors, photographers and art directors and his unique experimental approach to design attracted clients from a diverse range of organisations including film director David Lynch.
This module encourages you to be curious and experiment as you explore graphic design responses for music.
You will work on an authentic creative brief written by Vaughan Oliver himself.
You are encouraged to immerse yourself and explore the creative and experimental philosophy Vaughan applied to his own practice.
Whatever
area of graphic design you decide to pursue upon graduation, you’ll have
the core transferable skills needed to operate successfully in the creative
industries.
Our course produces conceptual, confident, practitioners who can apply
their creative knowledge and skills to a variety of professional employment
opportunities or post-graduate education.
Skills including critical reflection and analysis, collaborating with
others, creative thinking and the ability to visually and conceptually
solve problems.
Our graduates are consistently employed across a wide range of
design positions in the graphic design industry.
See some examples below of our Alumni:
Nile Hope
Pearl Fisher, New York
Poppy Scoffings
Graduate Portfolio
Thomas Hall
Woei Thing Tay
Ben Clarke
Alec Tear
Graphic Designer & Lettering Artist, Amsterdam
As
a graphic design student, you will explore creative processes and methodologies
that develop your personal creative practice through experimental and iterative
design processes that mirror industry practice and foster a deeper
understanding of material culture and craftsmanship.
Examples
include brand creation and responsible packaging, typography and editorial
design, image creation and curation, visualisation and prototyping using
physical and/or digital technologies, audience and personality benchmarking and
storytelling through graphic design.
Ethan Proctor
Brandon McCrostie
Parang Rai
Olivia Hu
Melody Richmond
Connor Robinson Scrafton
Leah Taba
Mya Matthews
Our dedicated team of experienced graphic designers and researchers ensures you receive the highest level of expertise.
We operate in a way that authentically mirrors industry standards, preparing you for a seamless transition into the creative studio environment.
By offering exciting and challenging briefs, we provide opportunities to test and hone your developing skills.
Andy Reay
David Gardener
Mike Pinkney
Ted Carden
Chris Wakeling
Dr Victoria J.
E.
Jones
Dr Donna Leishman
Andy Frith
Sara Ogilvie
An authentic and experiential learning
environment is at the core of this course, and you’ll find that the facilities
at Northumbria are excellent.
Spaces include specialist Mac labs with the most
current creative software.
Our workshops are equipped to facilitate both
traditional and digital approaches to prototyping, printing and visualising.
You’ll have access to photo-labs, laser
cutting and large format printing.
Everything
is supported by skilled technical staff who will help you make the best use of
available facilities.
Our 24/7
Library holds comprehensive design reference, also accessible through the
‘Blackboard’ eLearning Portal, that will guide your preparation for seminars
and independent research.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-graphic-design-uusgsn1:
W215
In the first year, you will collaborate with the staff team to establish
fundamental knowledge and skills in Graphic Design practice, employing a ‘thinking-through-making’
methodology.
You will begin to delve into conceptual thinking (ideas) and
visual problem-solving (design solutions) and their significance in
professional graphic design.
You'll gain insights into materials, methods,
research skills, and design, and begin crafting meaningful graphic designs
using both physical and digital mediums.
During the second year, you will build upon the creative
processes and methodologies introduced in the first year, focusing on producing
more authentic, industry-relevant, and professional outcomes.
Digital and
physical workshops will further refine your emerging creative practice and
craftsmanship skills.
In the third year, you'll have the chance to enhance your career readiness,
entrepreneurial spirit, and intercultural awareness through first-hand
experience in the workplace or international study opportunities.
You can
pursue industrial placements or opt for study abroad programs.
In your final year, your creative practice will align with your professional
and personal ambitions, offering opportunities to undertake self-initiated
projects and tackle industry-set creative briefs and/or competitions.
You'll
explore the intersection of theory and practice while developing your
professional portfolio.
This portfolio will demonstrate your ability to
comprehend and interpret creative briefs, showcase your professional creative
identity, skill set, methodologies, and readiness for a career to diverse
audiences, all within the context of your professional aspirations.
Clarissa Angelica Santoso
Iris Binnington
VIEW MORE STUDENT WORK

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/guidance-and-counselling-ba-hons-uusguc1:
This
theoretically rich subject draws upon a range of disciplines including
Psychology, Sociology and Philosophy.
You will be encouraged to develop
critical thinking, to be able to recognise the inequalities and discriminatory
practices encountered by people in everyday life and to consider strategies to
influence and bring about change.
You will engage with a range of learning
experiences that include group work, case studies, enquiry based and
experiential learning, as well as the more traditional lecture-based approach.
Applying theory to practice is a central theme of the course and you will take
part in a number of experiences to enable you to develop your skills such as
peer mentoring, careers interviews and group facilitation.
Work placements and
study abroad options are available for a full year between your second and
final years, with the additional option of a placement during your second year.
BA Hons Guidance and Counselling at Northumbria is unique in being the only
undergraduate programme that qualifies you to enter the career guidance
profession, just one of the areas graduates can go into.
Our graduates offer a
unique skillset which equips them for a wide range of job roles within
education, health and community settings, many which support mental health and
well-being, an area where there is growing demand.
Students can also use their
degree as a basis for further study or professional training in areas such as
Counselling, Teaching or Social Work.
Please note that in order to qualify as a
Counsellor you would need an additional qualification and observed experience
in practice – something many students choose to do.
Student Rated - 90% of students studying Guidance and Counselling at Northumbria believed they had chance to explore ideas and concepts in depth, and thought their course enabled them to develop knowledge and skills needed for their future (NSS, 2025).
See other similar courses you may be interested in: Health and Social Care BSc or explore all our available Social Work Courses we have and find the one that suits your interests.
UCAS Code B9L5
Department Courses
We will use a variety of teaching methods including lectures, seminars, group work, case discussions, problem-based exercises and experiential learning.
To facilitate the independent learning that needs to take place outside of formal contact sessions, there will be directed learning tasks during every module.
Teaching is backed up by a well-designed support system that will underpin your learning journey.
You will have a personal tutor with whom you can discuss academic or personal issues, and who will model good guidance practice.
A unique feature of the course is the involvement of students in the Peer Mentoring Project.
In your first year you’ll be mentored by students from other years then, in turn, you’ll become a mentor in your second and final years.
Our assessment strategy is designed to support student-centred learning and you will take increasing responsibility for evaluating and improving your performance.
The assessment process will encourage interaction and dialogue around learning and assessment (peer-student and teacher-student).
Our team of tutors have wide experience of working in guidance, counselling, education, health and social care settings.
The team includes renowned national and international consultants, authors of key publications which inform current guidance and counselling practice and multiple award winners for innovation in career guidance.
Our tutors have built up, over several years, an excellent network of organisations that offer work placements to students.
You can choose to explore professional practice as a module in the second year.
There are also opportunities to undertake a full year placement between the second and final years.
Our tutors have also developed strong links with European academic institutions.
There are opportunities to study counselling at the Instituto Superior de Servico Social do Porto based in Portugal, and to study social policies in Sweden.
There is also the option of a short course at Hochschule Osnabrueck in Germany.
Paula Benton
Se Kwang Hwang
Dr Colin Cameron
Sarah Foster
Find out what our staff are getting involved in.
News
Keep up to date.
Technology Enhanced Learning is embedded throughout the course with tools such as the ‘Blackboard’ eLearning Portal and electronic reading lists that will guide your preparation for seminars and independent research.
The teaching team uses interactive technologies to provide feedback, encourage you to explore questions, and identify areas for development.
To help you develop your skills in guidance and counselling, we record sessions so that you can review the interactions and reflect upon your progress with the support of tutors.
Just a few miles from the city centre lies Coach Lane Campus; a modern multi-million pound complex.
At Northumbria your learning will be directly impacted by the teaching team’s active research into their specialist areas, which include the theory of career development, employability, effective group facilitation, advocacy, learning and decision-making, and youth workforce development.
As part of the University’s strong research-rich ethos, you will also build up your own research skills as you formulate questions, critique different interpretations and develop well-founded arguments.
In the final year you will undertake a research project that will be a test of academic maturity, academic rigour and intellectual ambition.
The content of the course is relevant to all the ‘helping professions’ and you’ll have a great deal of flexibility when it comes to careers.
Further specialist training will be required for some careers, such as counselling, social work, teaching and nursing.
For other roles you might go straight into employment and undertake on the job training.
Examples of roles include; careers adviser, psychological well-being practitioner, family support coordinator, training and development officer, social prescriber, lead learning mentor, behaviour specialist, progression coach, counselling and support manager.
In recent years, final year BA Hons Guidance & Counselling students have been 'head hunted' by a number of organisations, particularly within the career guidance sector.
If you decide to start your own business, it’s good to know that the combined turnover of our graduates’ start-up companies is higher than that of any other UK university.
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Guidance and Counselling.
From a combination of acceptable Level 3 qualifications which may include: A-level, T level, BTEC Diplomas/Extended Diplomas, Scottish and Irish Highers, Access to HE Diplomas, or the International Baccalaureate.
Additional costs associated with travel to undertake field work in the first year and optional additional placements later in the programme.
PP0425 -
Learning at University (Core,20 Credits)
This module aims to provide formal academic induction across your whole first year of study, introducing you to the academic literacy practices required to perform successfully in higher education.
The module has been designed to support you to recognise and debate key concepts of your degree by encouraging you to actively engage in discussion and debate to enable you to make-sense of the subject-curricula and discourse communities of the discipline area and to develop your own standpoint.
PP0426 -
Developing Skills and Strategies for Helping (Core,20 Credits)
This module enables you to develop guidance and counselling skills used in a range of ‘helping’ professions and to explore the nature and application of one to one and group interventions in a range of settings.
Drawing upon counselling theory, you will consider the skills, strategies and models underpinning effective guidance and counselling.
You will undertake a range of formative, skill based activities and a summative assignment which encourages you to reflect on your own experience and use of guidance and counselling skills.
PP0427 -
Counselling Perspectives (Core,20 Credits)
This module has been designed to support you to recognise and debate key concepts of your degree by providing you with underpinning knowledge and understanding regarding the broad foundation of the history and practice of counselling.
You will examine a range of counselling perspectives and evaluation issues in relation to counselling practice.
Through a range of teaching and learning strategies you will be encouraged to explain and distinguish between the various theoretical bases of counselling and identify their key features.
The module aims to orientate you to the breadth of the discipline as well as the language and key terms used in the literature.
PP0428 -
Introduction to Academic Research (Core,20 Credits)
This module provides you with an introduction to academic research within health and social sciences disciplines.
In an increasingly information-rich society, knowledge and skills in research play an essential role in enabling society to anticipate, and respond to, unexpected challenges and change.
Therefore, understanding and using research are recognised as essential requirements for all professionals to inform service improvement.
This module is designed to develop your understanding of the nature, purpose, principles, practical challenges and ethics of research by examining a broad range of research methodologies and methods.
You will also learn essential concepts and languages in research.
The focus of the module is on specific and very important aspects of research for you: •	Understanding the role of research; •	Introduction to research methodologies and how these underpin different forms of knowledge; •	Introduction to research methods and their strengths and weaknesses; •	Reviewing and critiquing literature with methodological appropriateness and with particular reference to the application to practice; •	understanding the importance of the ethical issues in research; •	Application of knowledge to practice and putting research to use.
This module will support you to develop the research skills and knowledge necessary that are transferable across disciplines.
This module will assist you in the conception, development, documentation, delivery and reporting of your independent research.
The module is invaluable in providing you with a solid foundation from which to develop your independent research, including final year project.
PP0429 -
Professional Contexts in Guidance and Counselling (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will explore some of the criteria that might be used to analyse and evaluate the effectiveness of services in the field of guidance and counselling.
You will learn about: major areas of policy and government strategy that determine the focus or development of services in different fields; codes of practice and quality standards governing the operation of guidance and counselling organisations and agencies; systems for performance management and customer feedback.
You will be introduced to enquiry skills including, observation and narrative recording, to enable you to undertake a series of enquiry based visits, and/ or conversations with practitioners and desk-based inquiry.
You will also explore issues of safeguarding and ethical practice in relation to delivery of services and to support your planning and delivery of these visits.
PP0430 -
The Social Self and Meaning Making (Core,20 Credits)
Being an effective practitioner hinges on having a clear and detailed understanding of self.
In this module you will explore different ways of thinking about what it means to ‘be’ or to ‘have’ a self.
You will look at the ways in which the experience of the self is embedded in social relations.
Taking as a starting point the proposition that being a self involves being uniquely situated within the context of contemporary social conditions, dealing with an incessant sense of becoming, and being an active participant in social change, you will learn about the relationships between individuals and the wider cultural and structural contexts they inhabit.
You will explore the ways in which being a self involves not simply being a product of social life but being collaboratively involved in its continuous emergence.
You will examine ways in which competing, conflicting and subversive narratives around gender, class, age, disability, sexuality, race and ethnicity, come to shape individuals’ perceptions of life and of their own roles in it.
While the presence of structural and cultural influences are often obscured at the level of people’s everyday interactions with each other, it is within these that the self takes its shape and roles and identities are bestowed, learned, negotiated and resisted.
When life is an ongoing, incessant process of meaning making, an insight into these relationships will enhance your understanding of why people think and feel about themselves as they do, and ground your developing Guidance and Counselling practice.
PP0548 -
Mentoring: Theory and Practice (Core,20 Credits)
You will explore the theory and practice of mentoring, focusing on the use of both group and individual approaches in developing and enhancing the mentoring relationship.
You will recognise the core guidance and counselling skills inherent in the mentoring role and apply them with 1st year undergraduates.
You will undertake research into the effectiveness of mentoring across the life course and within educational, business and community settings.
PP0549 -
The Skilled Helper (Core,20 Credits)
You will explore the theory and practice of a range of helping processes drawn from differing contexts and critical perspectives.
Attention is given to individual approaches to helping and initiating change.
This will include the exploration of counselling within specific contexts (e.g.
Transcultural, feminist, online etc.) and representations of helping in the media.
There will also be an opportunity to explore critical views of counselling paradigms that have been developed within the disabled people’s movement and other sociological perspectives.
PP0550 -
Career Development Project (Core,20 Credits)
The aim of the module is to provide you with an opportunity to explore potential career pathways and develop an understanding of professional roles by undertaking a career development project.
Exploring entry routes and requirements of occupations through a range of sources, including direct contact with professionals, will further develop research skills as well as develop and utilise networks to help you to enhance your employability.
You will conduct a study into a chosen professional area, reflect critically upon a range of academic and work related experiences and consider how these have informed your career identity and contributed to the development of graduate attributes and employability skills.
You will complete an application and undertake a mock interview in which you will be supported to reflect upon and verbally articulate your graduate skills, attributes and values.
PP0551 -
Guidance and Counselling in Groups (Core,20 Credits)
You will explore the theory and practice of group delivery within a Guidance and Counselling context, building upon experience gained within the ‘Developing Skills and Strategies for Helping’ module.
Throughout the module you will be provided with knowledge and practical experience of working with groups, initially as a participant and later as a facilitator.
You will study theoretical approaches to group work and group management, the latter including the skills of leadership and facilitation.
You will gain practical experience of working in groups, beginning with low stakes activities to build your confidence.
Ultimately you will be involved, with a small group of your peers, in the planning and delivery of a group work session.
You will undertake personal research into the effectiveness of group delivery of guidance and counselling as the module proceeds.
PP0552 -
Research in Practice (Core,20 Credits)
This module will help you to further develop knowledge from the module ‘introduction to academic research’ through development of a deeper understanding of the research process.
The overall module aim is to support you in developing your research skills and knowledge.
You will also further develop your ability to analyse and critique research literature and to consider its application to practice.
The module will provide you with a strong grounding in a range of research methods.
It will also enable you to understand the philosophical and theoretical frameworks that underpin these methods and the research process as a whole.
Undertaking this module will help you to prepare for your final year dissertation / project
PP0553 -
Exploring Professional Practice (Optional,20 Credits)
The aim of the module is to provide you with opportunities to further develop knowledge and skills to enable transition from graduate level to the world of work.
This module provides you the opportunity to develop your employability and understanding of contemporary professional practice by participating in a work related learning opportunity.
Experiences will be provided to enhance your professional skills in a workplace setting by exploring the realities of day to day practice.
Learning experiences will also be also provided to enable you to gain an appreciation of the contribution of the reflective process in developing your professional practice and an understanding of professional roles and responsibilities within a multi-agency context.
This will give you the opportunity to explore possible areas of career interest and gain relevant experience.
As part of your placement preparation you will attend a short series of lectures and workshops in which you will be introduced to models of reflective practice and key concepts and issues relating to contemporary professional practice such as organisational culture, professionalism, professional boundaries, ethics/codes of conduct and multi agency/ integrated working.
As the placement unfolds you will reflect on your  experiences and progress towards agreed professional development targets via a placement diary.
These reflections will then be shared in seminars and tutorials with peers and a tutor who will provide formative feedback that will enable you to enrich your understanding of professional practice in the workplace.
PP0555 -
MAD Studies (Optional,20 Credits)
This module invites you to explore the concept of ‘madness’ with a consideration of ‘mental health’, ‘distress’ and ‘wellbeing’ through the perspectives of mental health service users and/or ‘survivors’.
The survivors’ movement reject biological and genetic explanations of their mental health, they celebrate their difference and challenge the legal constraints placed upon them.
In essence this is a political alignment within both the ‘anti psychiatry’ and ‘holistic’ movements in the UK and internationally.
This module will therefore introduce you to the principle theorists Foucault, Laing, Beresford and LeFrancois.
In addition the contested importance of mental health ‘recovery’ in current mental health provision will be explored along with critical challenges to diagnosis, treatment and potential stigma.
Recovery refers to the affirming process of discovering (or rediscovering) a positive sense of self and accepting and coping with the reality of any ongoing mental health distress.
This in turn includes a critic of the biological determinism often associated with any mental health pathology.
The module will take a historical perspective to the field of madness including topics of architecture and art as well as the early interpretations and treatments.
Intersectionality will also be considered through the relative influences of gender, ethnicity, class and sexual orientation providing a fuller understanding of how these effect the mad narrative.
PP5001 -
Creative Helping Practices (Optional,20 Credits)
You will learn to identify, engage and apply a range of creative helping practices in the context of their programme of study.
Students will be encouraged to develop a deeper understanding of alternatives to traditional interventions to allow for work with diverse communities and clients.
You will explore the practicalities associated with engaging with alternative approaches, including the realities of accessing creative helping practices, developing engagement with clients, and understanding how these can support wellbeing across the life course.
You will be introduced to a range of methods and supported to explore how these can be engaged with in practice.
PP0562 -
Guidance and Counselling: Year Abroad (Optional,120 Credits)
The Study Abroad Year module is a full year long module which is available on degree courses which include a study abroad year.
It is taken as an additional year of study between levels 5 and 6.
The course of study abroad will be dependent on the partner and will be recorded for an individual student on the learning agreement signed by the host university, the student and the home university (Northumbria).
It will not count towards your final degree classification however if you pass, it is recognised in your transcript as a 120 credit Study Abroad Module and on your degree certificate in the format – “BA (Hons) Guidance and Counselling (with Study Abroad Year)”.
PP0563 -
Guidance and Counselling: Work Placement Year (Optional,120 Credits)
The Work Placement Year module is a full year module available only on degree courses which include a work placement year which is taken as an additional year of study between levels 5 and 6 (the length of the placement will be determined by your programme but it can be no less than 30 weeks and no more than 52 weeks).
This is a Pass/Fail module and an overall pass grade and so does not contribute to classification.
When taken and passed, however, the Placement Year is recognised in your transcript as a 120 credit Work Placement Module and on your degree certificate in the format – “BA (Hons) Guidance and Counselling (with Work Placement Year)”.
SW0519 -
Guidance and Counselling Placement Semester Long (Optional,60 Credits)
On this module you will gain experience and knowledge of working in a relevant placement, for a minimum of 15 weeks.
You will develop transferable skills, such as knowledge of confidentiality, data protection, communication, problem-solving, group work, time-management, self-management, and record keeping.
You will work within a team whilst maintaining boundaries and building professional relationships.
SW0520 -
Guidance and Counselling Study Abroad Year out (semester long option) (Optional,60 Credits)
The Study Abroad semester long module is taken as part of an additional year of study between levels 5 and 6.
The other half of the year is occupied by the semester long placement module for the year out option.
It will not count towards your final degree classification however if you pass, it is recognised in your transcript as a 60 credit Study Abroad Module and on your degree certificate in the format – “BA (Hons) Guidance and Counselling (with Study abroad and work placement year)”.
PP0635 -
Guidance and Counselling Project (Core,40 Credits)
Building on research understanding and skills developed throughout your programme, this module will introduce you to key ideas, perspectives and activities in social research relevant to guidance and counselling.
In addition, you will understand how to relate each of these elements into a coherent research project and will appreciate relevant ethical issues that apply to your research.
PP0636 -
Models of Career Guidance Practice (Core,20 Credits)
This module explores theories of career choice and development and how these are used in career guidance practice with young people and adults.
In this module you are encouraged to develop insight into a range of multi- disciplinary models of career choice and development and consider their relevance to current practice in the UK (both in schools and in in a range of settings for all ages).
You will have the opportunity to further develop and apply important guidance and counselling skills in the context of careers work.
You will undertake formative assessments which allow you to practice and further develop guidance skills.
The summative assessment will involve planning and delivering a career guidance intervention, for example a career guidance interview or a group activity, and written commentary, drawing upon career development theory.
PP0637 -
Engaging with Older Clients (Core,20 Credits)
Within this module you will develop the knowledge needed to support practice when working with older people.
You will develop a critical understanding of key theoretical perspectives on ageing, with a focus on life course perspectives.
You will also explore current, global, debates on ageing and develop the ability to apply underpinning knowledge to counselling practice when working with older people.
Within this module you will explore the realities of aging in society from the perspective of older people.
As part of this module you will also explore a range of issues that may impact on older people and influence their engagement with guidance and counselling services.
PP0638 -
Brief Approaches to Counselling and Helping (Core,20 Credits)
You will explore the theory and practice of a range of brief approaches drawn from differing theoretical and critical perspectives.
In this module you will develop knowledge and critical understanding of three types of brief counselling approaches as used in guidance and counselling settings: Cognitive Behavioural Therapy, Solution Focused Approaches and Motivational Interviewing.
You will develop understanding of the theoretical background to the approaches and implications for practice.
This may involve working in situations where you will think about issues that some people face, such as anxiety and depression, as well as behaviours which may prove problematic,  such as substance misuse.
PP0639 -
Narrative Approaches to Counselling and Helping (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will develop knowledge and critical understanding of three types of narrative practice used in guidance and counselling: personal construct psychology, existential therapy and narrative therapy.
You will develop understanding of the ways in which the lives of individuals, families and communities are shaped by the stories they tell about themselves, and of ways in which identities can be enriched and strengthened or hurt and diminished depending upon the sorts of stories that are told and  who is recognised as having the right to tell stories.
In exploring these three types of therapeutic intervention, you will gain insight into how different types of listening conversations can be used as opportunities to allow people to think about how damaging stories can be rejected, and different meanings and preferred storylines can lead to more positive, accepting outcomes.
You will gain insight into the view that the person is never the problem, but that the problem is the problem: and find creative ways of working with people in to support them to think differently about problems.
As well as learning about the theoretical bases of each of these approaches, you will participate in workshops and seminars where you will have the opportunity to begin to put them into practice.
This may involve working in situations where you will consider ideas about subjects including loss, bereavement, death, modern power, or where you will learn about counselling individuals, couples, family groups and communities.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-health-and-social-care-extended-degree-uusxlc1:
Throughout the Health
and Social Care degree, we aim to support you to explore, discuss and evaluate
health and social care systems from a range of different perspectives.
You will
research the history of health and social care provision, critically examine a
range of professional roles, discuss the potential for service user involvement
and analyse global health problems and government policy.
In addition, you will
debate a range of significant health and sociologically important topics such
as disability; equality and social justice; mental health; and the social
determinants of health.
This degree also aims to equip you with knowledge about
some of the challenges and tensions of partnership and inter-professional
working, involving service users, and why integration between health and social
care might lead to higher standards of care.
The knowledge you will get from these health and social care courses in the uk will prepare you for potential roles in a variety of health and social care settings, such as working with people experiencing mental health issues, in Domestic Violence services, or in Public Health teams.
It will also prepare you for post-graduate and/or professional study in this health and social care related subjects.
See other similar courses you may be interested in: BSc (Hons) Social Work , Health and Social Practice BSc , Health and Social Practice (Clinical) BSc or explore our wide range of Social Work Courses that are available to you.
Discover what courses you could progress onto after successful completion of an undergraduate course: Health and Social Practice MSc
UCAS Code Z074
In the first year of the degree, the modules you study cover the foundations and some of the key concepts of health and social care and some of the different professions involved in health and social care (such as nursing, occupational therapy, social work etc.).
You also learn about the history of health and social care services and how they have developed over time and you begin to debate issues of social justice and needs, and how the environment in which we live can affect our health.
In addition, you are introduced to different ways of learning at university and how academic research is carried out.
In the second year, you learn about different international systems for organising and providing health and social care services, and explore core issues in public health, and healthcare interventions.
You also learn about communication skills and professional boundaries, different perspectives on caring for older people and you will begin to develop your skills as a research in your own right.
You also get to choose an optional module that may allow you to pursue and learn more about an issue you are particularly interested in.
In the third year, you explore changing policy landscapes of health and social care and begin to learn about management and leadership approaches.
You also discuss legal and governance issues relating to social care and examine what we mean by safe and effective practice.
You will also carry out a research project of your own, supported by a supervisor.
The teaching staff on this course come from a wide variety of backgrounds and are interested in lots of different research and policy areas.
We have qualified social workers, nurses and occupational therapists teaching on the programme and staff who have previously worked with young people, in housing services, local authorities, and with User Led Organisations (ULOs) and disabled groups.
Our staff’s research interests cover issues such as patient safety, school food, resilience amongst young people, disability rights, health inequalities amongst traveller communities, the involvement of service users, the concept of Madness, how health policies are implemented, family policy, and poverty.
The Coach Lane Campus offers modern teaching facilities, two cafes, a well-equipped library and plenty of space for group work and individual study.
You will be part of a growing multi-disciplinary department that includes education, social work, children and young people, public health and community wellbeing.
Our academic team are actively involved in some of the ‘real issues’ that face individuals and communities through their research into health inequalities, poverty, welfare rights and advice, child protection and service user involvement.
We work in partnership with a range of different organisations outside of the university and we encourage learning outside of the classroom as much as we can.
This involves trips to local health and social care organisations, health walks and tasks for students to do off-campus.
The research rich learning approach, which encourages you to become an active inquirer and participant in your own learning, is at the heart of the teaching and learning approach on this course.
In the first two years of study, you will learn about a range of research approaches, from people who are actively involved in carrying out research around health and social care issues.
For example, some of our staff are involved in a new £16 million national project to address health inequalities in the country and the prevention of poor health.
Our staff are also involved in writing books, book chapters, journal articles and reports for government and charitable organisations.
These works are intended to be read by a wide range of people, including students, other academics, policy makers and practitioners.
For example, Christina Cooper who teaches on this degree is co-leading a 1.4 million project focused on connecting services and communities to support people experiencing homelessness
These experiences will hopefully inform your studies into Health and Social Care and how you approach your research project.
You will be encouraged to identify and select topics you are interested in, and to think about potential research issues from a range of perspectives.
In your final year, you undertake a research project that will allow you to study a topic you are interested in in detail and help to prepare you for the professional and/or academic world beyond this degree.
You will be encouraged to explore a range of career pathways throughout your degree and develop an understanding of contemporary ways of working in the field of Health and Social Care engaging with a range of employers, alumni and external agencies.
The content of the course is relevant to professions within the health and social care field, and you’ll have a great deal of flexibility when it comes to careers.
Further specialist training will be required for some careers, such as social work, teaching and nursing.
Examples of roles include; social prescribing, psychological wellbeing, work in charities, local authorities, substance abuse, housing, community development, NHS management.
You will be supported to develop key professional and personal skills (such as one to one work, group work, interviews and presentations) throughout the course.
You will be encouraged and supported to engage with volunteering opportunities and use the links and networks we have with local employers to improve your employability.
A number of extra-curricular career development and employability sessions, focusing on different professions and aspects of job-hunting run throughout the year.
The skills learnt and assessed through the course will develop your employability, and you will have acquired the characteristics of a Northumbria graduate – the ability to think independently, work collaboratively, and apply innovation.
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Health and Social Care.
There are no additional requirements.
PP0431 -
Foundations of Health & Social Care Policy and Practice (Core,20 Credits)
Improvements in living standards and the introduction of new technologies have had a significant impact on life expectancy of both older people, who live longer than ever before, and younger people with disabilities, who are enjoying longer and a better quality of life.
This module has been designed to allow you to consider ways in which health and social care can be conceptualised and experienced through a variety of different methodologies.
These include, exploring levels of analysis and professional and lay perspectives on health and social care.
The underpinning eclectic concepts of health and social care will be examined in an integrated way.
In addition you will be encouraged to explore ethical issues in health and social care such as equity, choice, need, autonomy, freedom, rationing and justice.
PP0432 -
Professional Practice and the Health & Social Care Workplace (Core,20 Credits)
This module aims to provide an introduction and understanding of contemporary key issues in professional practice in Health and Social Care, and to enable you to relate the impact of various professions and their practice to the subject of Integrated Health and Social Care.
It will enable you to make links between current research based evidence and social and health care policy and professionalism.
Issues covered will include the changing nature of and challenges to professional practice; multi-professional and multi-agency working, changing health and social policies and their impact on practice, nature and understanding of professional knowledge and evaluation of the contribution of research.
As part of this module you will also begin your  “attachment” to a named outside agency.
This attachment will allow you to develop links with this agency,  throughout your wider degree programme, with the intention of providing you with opportunities to consider the practical application of your theoretical learning to the professional/workplace areana.
This attachment will also form part of your formative assessment for this module.
PP0434 -
Inequalities and Social Justice (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will be introduced to a range of concepts and theories related to Public Health, Social Determinants of Health, Needs analysis, and User Involvement.
You will explore a wide curriculum including Inequalities in health, mechanisms for need assessment and user participation.
You will debate emergent themes and issues based upon contemporary research in his field.
The Module aims to introduce you to the concepts and principles related to Public Health, Inequalities in Health, and Needs Assessment.
This will enable you to explore and debate theoretical positions related to inequalities, social justice, and the analysis of need.
The Module aims to give you a firm theoretical basis to explore these issues in subsequent Levels of your degree, and to support your conceptual understanding of contemporary debates about inequality and social justice within integrated health and social care.
PP4000 -
Children, Young People in Health and Social Care (Core,20 Credits)
Children and young people’s health and social care needs are often overshadowed by the health needs of older adults, and arguably services are less responsive to addressing their health concerns.
In this module you will develop a detailed understanding of the context surrounding children’s and young people’s health, the policy and clinical drivers shaping health and social care services, and the impacts they have.
The content will cover a range of problems from accessing healthcare, to safeguarding, child protection and mental health service provision.
The adolescent phase is a unique time when the individual transitions from dependency on parents and other adults to acquiring independence and transitioning to adulthood with greater autonomy and self reliance.
You will acquire critical knowledge of how young people engage in self management of illness such as Type 1 diabetes or access support in their transition to independence from living in care.
The module will offer an ideal opportunity to re-examine the place of children and young people in the context of current health and social care policy such as those policies which advocate choice for children and young people in relation to their (health) care.
PP0556 -
International Perspectives on Health and Social Care (Core,20 Credits)
This module will enable you to debate issues of citizenship, nationality, rights and duties in relation to health care and social welfare, through an understanding of forms of social capital and 'social ills' from a global perspective.
You will analyse the development, implementation and diffusion of health and welfare policies in particular areas of the world, (for example India, China, the Pacific Rim), and assess their impact on the wellbeing of local populations.
The module aims to foster an understanding of the benefits and principles of comparative social policy analysis, as well as enabling you to debate issues of citizenship, nationality, rights and duties in relation to health and welfare provision through an understanding of the global and local distribution of social goods and social ills.
PP0558 -
The Older Person in Health & Social Care systems (Core,20 Credits)
The Module aims to introduce key theories that attempt to explain “modern ageing”, including the notion of the Third and Fourth Ages, ageism, the diversity of older people, and the impact of professional and political agendas on health and social care policies, and their effect in the delivery of appropriate interventions for individuals and groups.
By exploring different social theories, you will consider how societies have attempted to give shape to, the personal lives of older people, and you will develop an understanding how personal experiences of being older are constituted not only through chronological age, but also through issues of social class, (dis)ability, ethnicity, gender, and sexuality.
This module introduces you to current debates regarding ageing and later life.
You will consider historical contexts of “old age, work and welfare”, and debate why some societies expect individuals to stop work at a defined age and the impact this has on their lives.
You will debate both the challenges and opportunities ageing societies bring at local, national and global levels, in and around the areas of health and social care, and consider changing societal attitudes as to what constitutes an “older person”, including the impact of the media.
PP0559 -
Communication Skills & Professional Boundaries (Core,20 Credits)
The aim of this Module is to debate the development of boundaries as an important stage in the practice of various groups of practitioners in health and social care, exploring opportunities for collaborative working and evaluating the success of this in terms of the agenda of multi-professional/integrated working.
It will afford you opportunities to analyse concepts associated with collaboration, (or lack of), between “professionals” working in health and social care.
You will also engage with and analyse the nature of, and challenges to, professional practice which have emerged as a result of multi-professional and multi-agency working.
You will also consider theories of communication between professional groups focussing in particular on the use of “professional language” as a barrier to integrated working.
You will also consider, in consultation with your named external agency, the practical issues associated with collaboration, (or lack of), between “professionals” working in health and social care settings, and the impact on service delivery.
This will include you considering examples of models from past and current literature, critical evaluation of case studies and the evidence and personal knowledge based on your own, and other students and staff experiences, by engaging in exercises allowing reflection on individual experiences as a consumer of health and social care and consider these in terms of concepts from the module.
and a changing health and social context in which professional working is influenced by policies - policies determined by the state which do, or have the potential to, impact on the realities of professional working and may not always correspond to real or perceived professional interactions and/or interventions.
PP0560 -
Health and Neighbourhood Renewal (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will critically examine the interplay between public health; community-based health and social care provision; and community regeneration policies.
You will develop skills in community profiling; critical analysis of the policies of regeneration; and critically reviewing community participation in health and social care delivery.
The aim of this Module is to analyse and debate how public health and social care priorities are linked with the study of ‘communities’.
Through an exploration of community development as an approach to working with communities you will evaluate lay health perspectives of health and social care.
Theories of participation and empowerment will be debated and you will be introduced to different approaches to undertaking participative needs analysis exercises with communities.
The Module also analyses how regeneration policies interact with wider health and social care policies.
PP5000 -
Public Health Theory and Practice (Core,20 Credits)
The aim of this module is to support you to develop a critical understanding of public health theory, policy and research and apply this to the complex and dynamic health and social care context.
In this module you will critically explore and analyse key concepts relating to public health theory and practice.
This will include developments in public health policy and prevention research and approaches to practice.
You will examine the changing public health context and the emergence of ‘lifestyle illnesses’ which affect population health and individual health behaviours.
You will be introduced to behavioural science and behaviour change theory, to equip you with a detailed understanding of the challenge and opportunities for improving health behaviours and lifestyles in individuals and populations.
The module also will examine research conducted on healthcare risks, lay beliefs, help seeking behaviour and the ‘prevention paradox’.
Key sessions will support you to critically explore a range of public health initiatives from past and current literature, critical evaluation of case studies and the evidence and personal knowledge based on your own, and other students’ and tutors’ experiences.
PP0564 -
Integrated Health & Social Care: Study Abroad (Optional,120 Credits)
It will not count towards your final degree classification but, if you pass, it is recognised in your transcript as a 120 credit Study Abroad Module and on your degree certificate in the format – “BSC (Hons) Integrated Health and Social Care (with Study Abroad Year)”.
PP0565 -
Health and Life Sciences Work Placement Year (Optional,120 Credits)
When taken and passed, however, the Placement Year is recognised in your transcript as a 120 credit Work Placement Module and on your degree certificate in the format – “BSC (Hons) Integrated Health and Social Care (with Work Placement Year)”.
PP0640 -
Management and Leadership in Integrated Health & Social Care (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will appraise contemporary management and leadership in Integrated Health and Social Care settings by reviewing the skills and knowledge needed to manage successfully.
You will compare theories and concepts underpinning management and leadership in health and social care initiatives in relation to political, social, cultural and professional perspectives in the workplace, by drawing on real life examples.
The aim of this Module is to prepare you to work effectively within management settings by giving you insights into the running of a wide variety of integrated health and social care initiatives in the public, voluntary and private sectors, and as such this module lends itself to a continuation/enhancement of the links you have formed with your external agency in the first 2 years of your degree.
PP0642 -
Safe and Effective Practice in Integrated Health & Social Care (Core,20 Credits)
This module will involve you in thinking about the non technical skills which often underpin human error.
You will consider error from the perspective of the organisation, individual professionals and teams and patients/service users and their family.
You will analyse human behaviour in the context of health and social care service design and delivery.
Specifically the relationship between systems, technology and human behaviour will be explored to expose opportunities for avoidable harm and opportunity to mitigate against harm.
You will draw upon learning from previous modules and in conjunction with your module ‘management & leadership in health & social care’.
PP0643 -
Changing Landscapes and Policy Critiques in Integrated Health and Social Care (Core,20 Credits)
The aim of the module is to engage you in critical discussion and analysis of emerging trends in contemporary health and social care issues and policies.
You will build on existing knowledge and develop your understanding of the changing social and political contexts for health and social care issues and policies.
This module also allows you to develop knowledge and expertise in relation to an area of interest through independent enquiry.
The module encourages you to develop an understanding of local, national and global perspectives on emerging trends and contemporary issues and to explore a range of theoretical frameworks.
You will examine health and social care contexts including organisations, neighbourhoods and communities and explore the contribution of local authorities and other public sector organisations, families, business and voluntary organisations.
You will also evaluate the impact of health and social care policies on particular communities, professionals and/or organisations and critically reflect on policy and practice using research evidence.
You will be encouraged to explore a range of question in relation to an emerging issue.
For example: What are the challenges facing organisations delivering health and social care?
What impact do health and social care policies have on professionals and service users?
What roles do professionals and service users have in developing health and social care policies and practice?
What are the ‘drivers for change’ in relation to Health and social care?
PP0644 -
Core Project (Core,40 Credits)
Building on research understanding and skills developed throughout your programme, this module will introduce you to key ideas, perspectives and activities in social research relevant to Integrated Health and Social Care.
PP6000 -
Health Care Interventions, Policy and Practice (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will examine how health care interventions are developed in health and social care systems, how they are evaluated and the impacts they have on populations and service users.
Health researchers continually design and test new services and interventions to improve the health of populations.
However, significant challenges arise in how they are developed and implemented in health and social care systems.
Researchers are only beginning to understand the key barriers to implementing them in current healthcare routines.
The implementation of new innovations in health has considerable significance for health and social care and how services can be improved.
Often major barriers prevent their successful adoption, and this module will explore the complexity surrounding this major challenge to service improvement.
You will examine critically the different ways to evaluate interventions and how to judge success or effectiveness, You will also critically explore the professional, organizational and system challenges or barriers to implementation, and how some possible solutions have succeeded or failed.
For instance, you will be introduced to co-production theory and whether this is a viable pathway to effective implementation of innovations and new services in health and social care.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-health-and-social-care-uushlc1:
UCAS Code L5L6
112 UCAS Tariff points From a combination of acceptable Level 3 qualifications which may include: A level, T Level, BTEC Diplomas/Extended Diplomas, Scottish and Irish Highers, Access to HE Diplomas or the International Baccalaureate
Additional Requirements: There are no additional requirements for this course.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-health-and-social-practice-clinical-duphhc1:
The programme reflects contemporary
health and social practice, and you will learn alongside other practitioners
from a variety of professional backgrounds.
This level 6 programme will enable
you to develop theory related to your clinical field within health or social
practice and explore the impact of this within your organisation, team and as
an individual situated in practice.
It will enable you to enhance your practice
at the same time as gaining an award.
On completion you will be awarded a BSc
(HONS) Health and Social Practice (Clinical).
Please find a programme diagram here .
The award framework has been
created to provide a cohesive student choice driven pathway of awards aligned
with career progression in Health & Social practice.
This will support
Increased demand in health and social practice for more complex decision
making, resulting in the requirement of an advancing level of practice within
the workforce and the level of care provided to patients or clients.
This award framework has been
designed in collaboration with health and social practice stakeholders and
students.
This innovative framework is aimed and registered health and social
practice professionals who wish to consolidate or develop their practice in
line with their career aspirations.
The programme provides a flexible
method of study for you that fits around your health or social practice role.
To enter the programme you are
required to have a Diploma of HE or equivalent and appropriate registration
with a relevant professional body such as the NMC or HCPC.
This programme does
not lead to professional body registration.
**Please find a link here to a Guidance Document to assist
with the application process.
Please read over this document before applying.**
We are keen to work with partners to ensure the most effective and efficient delivery models that meet your individual needs so please contact us directly to discuss your interest and explore collaboration arrangements in more detail.
For any individuals with programme enquiries please contact NSApplicantServices@northumbria.ac.uk
For organisations with business enquiries please contact businessenquiry@northumbria.ac.uk
For applicants who wish to undertake V300 (non-medical
prescribing) in their first semester of their Health and Social Practice
Framework programme, please click on apply now and choose the application for
the correct starting month.
Once your application is complete we will contact
you in order to confirm whether or not you have been allocated a place.
To discover more about the Non-Medical Prescribing course
requirements please visit the below course pages:
Non-Medical Prescribing (V300) – Level 6
Non-Medical Prescribing (V300) – Level 7
Non-Medical Prescribing (V300) - Recognition of Prior Learning - Level 6
Non-Medical Prescribing (V300) - Recognition of Prior Learning - Level 7
*subject to cohort viability, some modules may have additional application requirements, e.g.
non-medical prescribing.
Programme leads will direct enquiries accordingly to
ensure you can meet practice engagement and assessment requirements.
See other similar courses you may be interested in: Health and Social Practice (Leadership and Management) BSc , Health and Social Care BSc , Health and Social Practice (Education) BSc
Mode of Study 2 years Part Time
Alongside
the base modules ‘Understanding and development of evidence for practice’ and
‘Improving outcomes in health & social practice’ that are designed to
underpin your development, our Flexible Award Building Study System (FABSS)
encourages students to choose from our substantial suite of specific clinical
riser modules, examples include ‘Health History & Physical Assessment’ and
‘Prevention & Early Intervention in CAMH’ as well as new modules designed
for this framework such as ‘Supporting
Survivors of Sexual Violence/Abuse’.
There is also opportunity to
select from our education, leadership or research riser modules.
This
facilitates students to build their own award in line with their development
needs and stakeholder workforce development plans, leading to a student-centred
approach to learning.
Staff
draw on years of health and social practice experience in their field, bringing
their expertise to the classroom with a richness seldom seen in programmes of
this nature.
Our staff maintain close relationships with our stakeholders and
specialist network involvement, bringing this contemporary and ‘real world’
evidence to their teaching practice.
You will benefit from state-of-the-art teaching and practice facilities, and
from an immersive environment dedicated to the study of healthcare as your
module choices dictate using simulation and immersive technologies as
appropriate to your learning.
First person tour through the clinical skills facilities at Coach Lane Campus
This research rich programme will provide students with skills of
intellectual autonomy, collaborative working, critical and independent enquiry
and discipline specific creativity.
Intellectual autonomy is a key feature of
the programme within which students are given responsibility for developing
health & social practice.
The programme advances their research-based
approach to dealing with complex issues and making sound clinical judgements
with sometimes incomplete data, a fundamental skill in the contemporary field
of health & social practice.
Self-direction will be encouraged to examine
the key ideas and concepts that link learning to the development and
understanding of research and research opportunities.
Collaborative working is
a strong feature within the programme and students will be encouraged to share
their learning and the evidence base within the professional context and with
their wider community of practice.
Students will be encouraged to expose their
research ideas and experiences to critical dialogue and socially construct
their understandings of the research process.
You can then
make the most of opportunities that such roles will bring.
You will be
encouraged to work to the vision of the organisation that is your employer.
This award works alongside the organisational structure of NHS acute and
primary care services giving you the confidence to progress in your career and either consolidate your role, move into more senior
positions or study further as your career aspirations direct.
A Diploma of Higher Education (DipHE) or Advanced Diploma for degree entry, or an honours degree for graduate certificate entry.
Applicants must be working in health and social practice and hold appropriate registration with a relevant professional body such as the NMC or HCPC, or have a professional qualification relating to their area of practice.
The university accepts Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) for entry onto the programme subject to approval by the Programme Leader.
International applicants should have a minimum overall IELTS (Academic) score of 7.0 with 7.0 in each component (or an approved equivalent*).
AC6662 -
Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) for Long Term Conditions (Optional,20 Credits)
You will learn about the use of ‘Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) in Long Term Conditions (LTCs)’ as a possible treatment strategy in Monitoring and Management of LTCs.
As you explore the evidence base and key components of CBT you will develop theoretical knowledge and an understanding of the benefits of adopting this technique with your service users.
Topics include: •	Long Term Conditions and Mental Health •	Why CBT - an introduction to using CBT with service users who have physical health conditions •	CBT for Anxiety and Panic •	CBT for Depression •	Therapeutic assessment skills – a central component in CBT •	Using guided discovery •	Formulation – a framework for solving problems •	Treatment goals and treatment strategies – tailored to target the psychological aspects of physical disease
AC6676 -
Applying Positive Behavioural Support (PBS) in Practice PBS (Optional,20 Credits)
This module enables you to develop the knowledge, skills and values required to lead the process of functional behavioural assessment and develop, implement and evaluate a behaviour support plan (BSP) to support the specific needs of an individual with a learning disability and behaviour that challenges.
It includes learning activities related to functional behaviour assessment, an analysis of the social and physical environment as well as mediator analysis to understand the context for the behaviour and implementation of the plan.
You will develop skills in gathering appropriate history, establishing clear descriptions of behaviour and obtaining information about factors that may contribute to challenging behaviour e.g.
communication, level of social, cognitive, emotional skills/abilities and mental illness.
You will utilise a range of assessment strategies and measures/tools e.g., checklists, questionnaires, interviews, observation and evaluate their respective validity and reliability.
You will interpret this data and use the 4-term contingency to generate a formulation as to the function of the challenging behaviour.
This module will enable you to lead the development and implementation of a BSP with a range of strategies designed to improve an individual’s quality of life and reduce the likelihood of behaviour that challenges.
You will learn how to monitor/review the effectiveness of a BSP and address attitudinal, individual and environmental barriers to its successful implementation.
As well as enabling you to meet the requirements of  a Northumbria  Award it will also enable you to demonstrate behaviour specialist/supervisor/manager competencies of The PBS Coalition Competence Framework (2015) nationally recognised as best practice in this field.
AC6677 -
Leading PBS in Organisations (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will enable you to lead PBS in your organisation.
You will have developed your knowledge and proficiency in PBS in the previous two modules including the ability to contribute to assessing behaviour, as well the development, implementation and review of behaviour support plans.
This module enables you to critically analyse and apply the most effective strategies to facilitate learning in adults and act as a leader of learning within your organisation to others who are learning about and developing their proficiency in PBS.
You will do this through a coaching approach providing support, supervision and feedback to others as they learn You will analyse how adults learn knowledge, skills and values, and how to best facilitate the development of each.
You will learn how to model good practice, how to coach and support others when they are learning, and how to give effective feedback on performance.
You will observe and assess proficiency in PBS of staff within your organisation, applying your understanding of factors which improve the validity and reliability of assessment.
You will analyse and apply theories and models of supervision demonstrating ability to provide effective ongoing supervision to others utilising PBS plans and providing feed-back which is supportive, constructive and helps individuals reflect upon and develop their own practice.
You will learn about other system wide aspects which influence the ability of the workforce to use PBS in practice; these include leadership, allocating resources effectively, and understanding, developing and utilising policies and practices central to safe effective PBS.
As well as to meeting the requirements of a Northumbria Award the module enables you to demonstrate the behaviour specialist/supervisor/manager competencies in the PBS Coalition Competence Framework (2015) nationally recognised as best practice for those who support people with learning disabilities /autism with challenging behaviour.
AC6678 -
Principles of Positive Behavioural Support (PBS) (Optional,20 Credits)
This module enables you to develop the knowledge, skills and values required to understand the Principles of the Positive Behavioural Support (PBS) approach to support someone with autism/a learning disability who displays behaviour that challenges.
It enables you to meet the requirements of a Northumbria Award and evidence relevant competencies identified in the PBS Coalition Competence Framework (2015) nationally recognised as best practice.
The module helps you to critically analyse the meaning and impact of Learning Disability and Autism, the causes of challenging behaviour and the use of a functional approach to understanding behaviour as a key concept of positive behavioural support.
You will explore and critique the theory and context of PBS as a way of improving quality of life and reducing behaviour that challenges.
You will develop your understanding of the importance of values-based support for people with a learning disability which acknowledges them as individuals, ensures choice and participation in their own lives and treats them with dignity and respect.
You will analyse the factors affecting behaviour to identify why someone may display behaviours that challenge and understand the purpose and development process of behaviour support plans (BSP) to improve quality of life and ensure the least restrictive support strategies are used.
The module helps you appreciate the importance of working together with the person, their family and other workers to assess, plan and develop behaviour support plans, understand your own role and contribution to the process and how to support the person and each other.
AC6679 -
Management  of Acute and Chronic Neurological Conditions (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will explore the normal anatomy and physiology of the nervous system before applying this knowledge to the altered pathophysiology of acute and long term neurological conditions.
Topics will include traumatic brain injury, brain and spinal tumours, stroke, infections, epilepsy, Parkinson’s disease, multiple sclerosis and motor neurone disease.
You will learn the value and application of comprehensive neurological assessment, investigations and effective management of patients with neurological conditions.
The importance and focus of contextualised interprofessional working and the scope of health care provision for neurological conditions within different health care settings will be integral to the module, including the psychological impact on both patients and their families.
AC6680 -
The Acutely Ill Adult (Optional,20 Credits)
Care of the acutely ill adult is challenging and complex.
Following on from the National Confidential Enquiry into Patient Outcome and Death (NCEPOD, 2005) investigation into deteriorating patients in the acute care settings, the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE, 2007) produced guidelines to help with the recognition and management of the acutely ill patient .
The Intensive Care Society (ICS, 2009) make explicit that the location of the patient does not determine the level of care required, and in their guidance recommend deteriorating patients, or patients at risk of deterioration, require Level 1 care.
Level 1 care is defined as patients in need of additional monitoring/clinical interventions, clinical input or advice and possible critical care outreach involvement (ICS, 2009).
This module is designed for nurses working within all acute settings.
The module will provide you with an increased ability to recognise, assess and manage patients that are acutely ill.
Relevant anatomy and physiology will be covered with a body systems approach to some of the common acute illnesses that patients’ present with; including respiratory failure, cardiovascular failure, acute kidney injury, neurological and metabolic disorders and gastrointestinal emergencies.
Holistic nursing care will be addressed during discussion on psychosocial care.
Additionally, the nursing role in ensuring patient safety will be considered with inclusion of human factors in healthcare, risk assessment, early warning scoring, communication and evidence based practice.
Learning will be facilitated by directed learning and the eLearning portal.
It is expected that this module will give you the knowledge to assess and manage the early phases of acute illness.
AC6698 -
Physical Assessment and Care of the Newborn (Optional,20 Credits)
On this module, you will learn to be a Newborn and Infant and Physical Examination (NIPE) practitioner.
You will develop your current understanding of newborn assessment.
Newborn examination skills will be enhanced to incorporate competency in performing the 4 specific screening elements of the NHS Newborn and Infant and Physical Examination (NIPE) programme, these are the examination of the newborn heart, testes, eyes and the hips.
You will learn about the NHS Newborn and Infant Physical Examination Screening (NIPE) Programme and the rationale for the newborn examination standards and the implementation of the programme in the UK.
You will determine how this will direct your practice and understanding of referral and decision making.
Guided online learning and student-led learning will enable you to review and increase your knowledge of newborn physiology, the normal parameters of health and potential deviations from normal as well as understanding the aetiology and recognition of congenital abnormalities.
You will evaluate the practitioner accountability and responsibility when assuming an extended and enhanced role, and be able to directly link this to the NMC code.
This will include a review of the literature pertinent to this enhanced role, and a personal reflection on your own development.
The module will assist you to embrace specific aspects of newborn wellbeing.
You will review contemporary evidence and research to evaluate care, for example neonatal jaundice.
The newborn examination is an opportunity to have dialogue with parents and to reinforce health promotion messages, you will review the evidence base and communication approaches when addressing for example, safe sleeping, recognising the ill baby and responsive parenting.
AC6700 -
Prevention and Management of Diabetes in Adults (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module, you will gain knowledge and understanding of the prevention and management of both Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus, the complications that may occur and the effect on the patient and family.
You will also develop a critical insight into the role of practice and service structures in detecting and managing diabetes and preventing or postponing complications.
Topics will include; diagnosis, treatment and management of Diabetes Mellitus, risk factors and lifestyle interventions, foot care, screening for complications, emerging research and technologies and the mental health impact of living with this long term condition.
You will learn the value and application of comprehensive assessment, investigations and effective management of patients with or at risk of Diabetes Mellitus according to national standards within the context of the quality outcome framework.
AC6710 -
AC6711 -
Children and Young People's History Taking and Physical Assessment (Optional,20 Credits)
The overall aim of the module aims to develop knowledge and skills for undertaking a comprehensive health history and physical assessment in Children and Young people.
It is aimed at those practitioners who undertake these skills as part of their role and are able to perform in practice.
In order to ensure safe patient care, students will be engaged in practical skills and knowledge development which includes patient-practitioner communication, health history elicitation, and clinical examination of physical systems, symptom recognition, and patient management.
The module uses a structured approach to systematically assess and manage deteriorating children and young people.
You will apply this structure to understand how children of all ages deteriorate and apply health promotion and safety netting to those children who do not need any form of treatment.
You will learn the anatomical and physiological response to illness in classroom sessions, prior to applying this knowledge in simulated sessions utilising High Fidelity Simulation with Sim Baby/junior.
AC6712 -
History Taking and Clinical Skills for Primary Care (Optional,20 Credits)
On this module, you will develop an increased ability to assess, examine and manage patients with a wide range of clinical presentations across the age spectrum presenting in general practice.
It is expected that this module will give you the knowledge to assess and manage the patient’s ability and appropriateness to receive health interventions and refer to other health care professional as required.
Summative assessment will include the achievement of clinical examination skills via an OSCE, and a reflective academic assignment.
This module aims to develop practitioners to undertake history taking and examination within contemporary primary care nursing.
Students will be able to demonstrate the knowledge and skills required to assess, and respond appropriately to health need, whilst working independently whilst working within legal, ethical and professional guidelines.
AC6713 -
Foundations Paediatric Intensive Care (Optional,20 Credits)
The module is solely for professional staff working in the clinical area of paediatric intensive care.
This module is delivered in practice to form part of a staff induction, preceptorship or an agreed development package The module enables the development of knowledge and skills in the care of a child or young person requiring intensive care.
It is delivered in conjunction with the completion of clinical competencies as part of the induction/preceptorship/development period in the student’s workplace.
Emphasis is placed on accurate holistic and family assessment together with the subsequent development and implementation of the appropriate management plans in order to provide efficient and effective therapeutic care interventions.
Working with the Multi Professional Team (MPT) to ensure high quality care is a core underpinning of this module.
The summative assessment for the module will be through the submission of a portfolio of evidence, which includes a 2500 word reflective commentary, and evidence of clinical competence.
Both parts of the assessment must be successfully achieved in order to gain academic accreditation.
Formative feedback on progress will be via a designated mentor and / clinical educator.
Summative feedback will be provided by written comments Core concepts •	Critical illness Pathways •	The infant and Childs airway (Children are different) •	Maintaining the airway •	Intubation •	Non-invasive and invasive respiratory support •	Non-invasive and invasive monitoring •	Supporting the circulation •	Multi organ failure •	Assessment and care planning •	Management of Pain •	Management of sedation •	Family support •	Communication in PICU •	Care planning •	Evaluation of care
AC6714 -
Children and Young People Recognition and Emergency Care in Critical Illness (Optional,20 Credits)
The overall aim of the module is to develop the knowledge and skills required for the safe care of critically ill Children and Young People.
You will gain a sound knowledge and understanding of specific physiological problems encountered in children and be able to recognise, respond and manage emergencies.
This module will enable you to develop the knowledge and skills required to recognise and manage the deteriorating and critically ill child and young people.
The module content closely follows the UK resuscitation council guidelines and policy.
You will apply this structure to understand how children of all ages deteriorate.
Summative assessment will require you to participate in simulated scenario exam this will require you to demonstrate competent practice and through dialogue rationalise actions Content Overview •	Recognition of the critically ill Child •	Structured approach to critically ill children.
•	Assessing seriously ill children: •	Paediatric Basic and Advanced Life Support •	Assessment of respiratory/ circulatory function •	Assessment of conscious level and neurological emergencies •	Exploration of clinical conditions •	Clinical decision making •	Ongoing supportive care of seriously ill children
AC6717 -
Respiratory Disorders (Optional,20 Credits)
This module is aimed at registered healthcare professionals who care for patients with respiratory disorders across all healthcare settings.
The primary focus is on the normal anatomy and physiology of the respiratory system and an exploration of the altered pathophysiology of both acute and chronic respiratory disorders.
Topics include, but are not limited to: •	Asthma and COPD •	Tuberculosis •	Lung transplantation •	Cystic Fibrosis •	Pulmonary Embolism •	Pulmonary rehabilitation •	Smoking cessation •	Pneumonia •	Pneumothorax •	Occupational lung disease You will develop a comprehensive understanding of the care and treatment of these disorders, including assessment, investigations, and management.
The module integrates the importance of inter-professional working and highlights the scope of healthcare provision for respiratory disorders, including the psychological impact on patients and their families.
The assessment for this module is a 3000-word case study on a chosen acute or chronic respiratory disorder.
This will allow you to demonstrate your knowledge and understanding, critically analysing the condition and reflecting on best practices and implications for patient care.
AC6725 -
End of Life Care for All (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module, you will explore the needs of the patient who has life limiting disease and is approaching the end of their life.
This module will enable you to critically examine your practice when caring for this vulnerable group of patient’s and will enable you to consider the holistic needs of the patient and their carer’s.
You will be encouraged to reflect and explore personal experiences arising from your own clinical practice in order to explore ways of enhancing your professional practice.
The module provides the opportunity for you to identify and examine the challenges of care delivery at the end of life.
You will investigate the holistic multi-disciplinary care necessary to facilitate quality end of life care.
A flexible learning approach is adopted to assist in the development of specific knowledge relating to end of life care in both the cancer patient and patients suffering diseases other than cancer.
Topics will include; Contemporary policy drivers, holistic common assessment, common core principles and competences in the end of life workforce, recognition of disease trajectories in advanced disease, multi-professional working, bereavement theories and models, funding and resource issues.
AC6726 -
Managing Pain and Symptoms in Advanced Disease (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module, you will explore the needs of the patient with advanced disease and the impact of unmet symptom management on quality of life.
This module will enable you to critically examine your practice when assessing and managing symptoms and will enable you to consider the holistic needs of the patient and their carers.
The module provides the opportunity for you to identify and examine the challenges of managing complex symptoms.
You will investigate the holistic multi-disciplinary care necessary to facilitate high quality symptom management.
A flexible learning approach is encouraged to assist in the development of specific knowledge relating to Topics will include; common symptoms in advanced disease; the physiology of pain and pain theory; pain and symptom assessment tools; pharmacological and non-pharmacological symptom management; emergencies in palliative care; symptoms in the last days and hours of life; challenges for practice; patient perspective of living with fatigue.
AC6727 -
Foundations of Cancer Care (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module, you will explore the foundations of cancer care by examining cancer as a chronic disease from screening and detection through to treatment, psychosocial support and the principles of palliative care.
Topics will include cancer as a health care problem in the UK, the social construct of cancer, the biology of cancer, which includes normal and abnormal cell division, and the genetics of cancer.
The module has the patient and carers as a central focus therefore the psychological impact of cancer and the user perspective and living with cancer will be implicit within the module content.
The prevention detection and management of cancer will be analysed and debated within the context of the UK healthcare system.
You will learn how to appraise current contemporary evidence underpinning the management of cancer in order to appreciate current standards of cancer provision with specific relevance for your clinical practice.
AC6728 -
Health History & Physical Assessment (Optional,20 Credits)
You will learn knowledge and skills for undertaking a general approach to health history and clinical examination of patients.
You will cover biological systems in order to provide a systematic approach to history and clinical examination.
The systems covered in your learning are as follows: •	Cardiovascular system •	Respiratory System •	Gastrointestinal system •	Neurological system •	Selected serious conditions You will learn to review clinical data in order to construct clinical decisions and produce management plans.
You will learn specific techniques for examination of the body for accuracy and safety.
Learning will be research led by current clinical evidence including local, national and international guidelines e.g.
NUTH/Northumbria Guidelines, NICE, SIGN and European clinical guidelines.
AC6729 -
Early Intervention & Prevention in Child and Adolescent Mental Health (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will allow you the opportunity to critically reflect on current children’s agenda and the impact and role of policy in developing Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services.
You will gain an appreciation of the challenges in applying a model of Early Intervention from a political / financial and moral position.
Exploring Early Intervention and Prevention following a development time line from conception to adolescence.
The following themes will inform the module content and development.
•	Promotion of mental health, early identification and early intervention for children and families in infancy, early childhood and adolescence.
•	Understanding risk and fostering resilience and its role in the development / prevention of mental health issues in children and young people.
•	Awareness of parenting programmes specifically utilising social learning theory models.
•	Early Intervention within psychosis.
•	Understanding and working with pre and peri natal mental health difficulties.
•	Using a harm minimisation approach with drug and alcohol with cyp.
•	Evidence based early intervention strategies/programmes in the prevention and treatment of mental health, emotional and behavioural issues.
•	Preventing anxiety and depression in children and young people using FRIENDS programme
AC6730 -
Understanding Common Presentations in Child and Adolescent Mental Health (Optional,20 Credits)
National and International statistics identify that the prevalence of Child and Adolescent Mental Health (CAMH) disorders is approximately 12.5%.
Developing a multi-agency strategy for child and adolescent mental health skills development across all children’s agencies is one of the central aims of all historical and contemporary children’s policy frameworks including “Every Child Matters”, the National Service Framework (NSF) for Adult Mental Health and for Children (more recently the Children and Young Peoples Improving Access to Psychological Therapies (CYP- IAPT) and currently the publication of Future in Mind (2015) and Five Year Forward (2016) continue this direction of travel.
This module aims to provide practitioners with a critical understanding of the common emotional, behavioural and mental health issues experienced by children, young people and their families.
The module may consolidate current knowledge and introduce new learning and create a discourse between theory, practice and government policy that inform service provision.
The following themes will inform the content of the module: •	Social construction and deconstruction of definitions of emotional problems, behavioural problems and disorders •	Risk and Protective factors at individual, family and community level •	Working with individuals and communities to promoting resilience and maintain mental health •	Identification, critical analysis, understanding of a range of emotional, behavioural, and social problems which can arise in childhood, including attention deficit disorder and conduct disorder; anxiety, depression, obsessive compulsive disorders, post-traumatic stress disorder, pervasive developmental disorders / Autism and Aspergers Syndrome, eating problems, substance misuse •	Ethical issues: anti-oppressive practice, confidentiality, and informed consent whilst being cognisant of the Legal Framework: Children Act, Mental Health Act, Child Protection, Crime and disorder Act
AC6731 -
Skills for Practice in Child and Adolescent Mental Health (Optional,20 Credits)
This module adopts a developmental and systemic approach to understanding Child and Adolescent Mental Health (CAMH) and the recommended interventions for range of emotional and behavioural problems which can arise in childhood and adolescence.
The module will support professionals, who work directly or indirectly with children and their families to critically understand and promote social, emotional, cognitive, behavioural and family development.
It will also support professionals, to work in collaboration with children, families and in partnership with other professionals and agencies in order to provide effective care for children at different stages in their development.
The module is complementary to the modules AC6729 Prevention & Early Intervention in Child and Adolescent Mental Health & AC6730 Understanding Common Presenting Problems in Child and Adolescent Mental Health..
National and International statistics identify that the prevalence of CAMH disorders is 12.5%.
Developing a multi-agency strategy for child and adolescent mental health skills development across all children’s agencies is one of the central aims of all contemporary children’s policy frameworks in particular Children and Young Peoples Improving Access to Psychological Therapies (CYP- IAPT) and the governments paper on Transforming children and young people’s mental health provision.
The following will form the content of the module.
•	Provide learners/practitioners with a critical understanding of evidenced based psychotherapeutic interventions with children, young people and their families Assessment and Clinical Formulation in CAMHS.
•	Systemic and family intervention with children young people and families.
•	Solution Focussed and Narrative Approaches •	Cognitive Behavioural Approaches with Children and Young People •	Play Therapy with Children and Young People •	Ethical issues: anti-oppressive practice, confidentiality, and informed consent underpin the module content and the context of practice.
AC6733 -
Chemotherapy Enhancing Practice (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will prepare you to increase your current knowledge and skills relating to chemotherapy practice.
The emphasis is on the holistic needs of the patient and their family/carers and you will consider contemporary issues in chemotherapy for the multi-professional team.
You will refine your understanding and evaluate the thorough assessment required for effective management of patients receiving chemotherapeutic drugs.
This will be achieved through an examination of module content which will include, the biology of cancer and the cell cycle, drug pharmacology, risk management and clinical governance, safety and handling and the management of clinical emergencies.
The content will enable you to develop knowledge and understanding about the principles of chemotherapy in relation to cancer cell physiology.
It will also enable you to critically examine effective care and support of patients receiving cytotoxic drugs, You will learn how to appreciate the current levels of knowledge required to practice safely through examining in detail the key clinical processes and current research evidence to critically evaluate its application to your role.
This will include the current research evidence-base, government policy, professional guidelines, pathways of care and the perspective of service users and their carer’s.
AC6749 -
Understanding and developing evidence for practice (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn and develop skills to become a critical consumer of evidence and research as it relates to local and national contemporary health and social practice.
You will explore differing philosophies underpinning evidence assessing the quality of evidence in relation to your context of health & social provision, and the politics of evidence-based practice.
You will learn to debate the philosophical theoretical and methodological underpinnings of the nature and variety of evidence used in practice.
You will be expected to progress and develop practice through the acquisition of advanced skills in synthesis, knowledge and theory.
In addition, you will gain skills through appraisal of practice examples, reflecting the politics of practice review and inquiry, exhibiting skills in presentation, negotiation, and networking, essential in health and social practice environments.
AC6751 -
Promoting Sexual Health in Healthcare Practice (Optional,40 Credits)
On this module you will develop an increased ability to assess and manage patients with a wide range of sexual health requirements across the age spectrum across a variety of health care settings.
It is expected that this module will give you the knowledge to assess and manage the patient’s ability and appropriateness to receive preventative health interventions in accordance with local and national policy drivers.
Summative assessment will include the achievement of clinical competencies, which have been benchmarked at a national level, a reflective academic assignment and a schedule of short answer and scenario-based questions.
This module aims to develop practitioners to undertake preventative and management interventions within contemporary sexual health nursing.
The module will facilitate you to identify when patients require referral into specialist sexual health services for the management of complex presentations, sexual violence  and/or psychological issues Students will be able to demonstrate the knowledge and skills required to assess, and respond appropriately to health need, whilst working independently and within legal, ethical and professional guidelines.
You will have the opportunity to complete the national cervical screening training during this module if you have not previously completed this core skill.
AC6752 -
Pre-hospital, Critical and Post-operative Care for Perioperative Practitioners (Optional,20 Credits)
The pre-hospital and critical post-operative care for perioperative practitioners module has been designed to allow a detailed inspection of the stages of perioperative care associated to complex patient encounters.
As there are now an increasingly large number of surgical treatments, alongside an ageing population and improved standards of care among co-morbid patient populations complex encounters are to be expected within the perioperative environment.
Throughout this module, you will examine pre-hospital patient assessment and direct patient admission to the perioperative environment, which will include interventional environments such as cardiology for example.
By understanding pre-hospital assessments and interventions to stabilise patients for transfer, perioperative practitioners can be more effective for these complex patients.
Additionally in this module, you will look to explore the critical care environment, exploring the fundamental differences between perioperative and critical care practice.
You will explore complex patient transfer between the operating theatre and critical care unit and introduce the concepts which will allow perioperative practitioners to be more effective when assisting in the care of critical care patients.
Due to an increased critical care staffing requirement, this module will prove to be useful for Operating Department Practitioners (ODPs) who will be expected to work in acute care environments including critical care and resuscitation departments.
This module looks to fill a professional development requirement exposed by the COVID-19 pandemic.
AC6753 -
Inter-professional Collaboration, Support, and Supervision for Perioperative Practice (Optional,20 Credits)
The inter-professional collaboration, support and supervision module has been designed to offer a forum for students to engage with discussion and topical debate related to the perioperative environment.
Due to having numerous professional, statutory regulatory bodies (PSRB) within this environment, the interactions are often complex and multi-faceted.
This module is designed to define the PSRBs seen within the perioperative environment and identify the common metrics which indicate performance, whilst also identifying some of the more challenging elements of effective interprofessional working.
Some of the theoretical topics which will be discussed within this module are ergonomics, human factors, patient safety, professional socialisation and clinical supervision.
Through discussion of these topics, within a perioperative context, there will be an opportunity to engage with debate and identify the principles of education and support within the operating theatre.
The pillar which this module aligns to is the education pillar, so the primary focus of this module will be support and supervision, overlaid to the defined PSRBs.
Through discussion of key educational and developmental documentation, for example Northumbria University North-East Practice Assessment Document (NEPAD), Health and Care Professions Council Professional Declaration and Nursing and Midwifery Council Revalidation, you will be able to engage with iterative analysis of your own role in the support and supervision of students and qualified staff.
The inclusion of these documents and processes will allow tangible progress to be made in relation to the summative assessment, which will require a critical analysis of the key topic literature.
AC6754 -
Enhanced Phases of Peri-operative Practice (Optional,20 Credits)
The enhanced perioperative practice module will allow you the opportunity to explore the core phases of working in the operating department.
The component phases are anaesthetics, surgery, and post-anaesthetic care, which will allow for a refreshed overview of the professional regulations, guidelines and policies related to general perioperative practice.
By integrating a focussed presentation and written reflection, this allows flexibility within the summative assessment, meaning learning and development can be bespoke to your individual requirements.
This summative assessment is designed to allow for presentation of learning outcomes, meaning your poster presentation and written reflection can be used to feedback to your clinical environment and be used for HCPC professional declaration or NMC Revalidation.
There will be a group of specialist educators delivering your sessions, specialising in either anaesthetics, surgery, or post-anaesthetic care.
These focussed lectures and seminars will give a useful overview of perioperative practice and allow topical debate on contemporary issues within each perioperative phase.
Due to specialist educators delivering these sessions, you will be provided with novel and interesting clinical and workforce theories, alongside contemporary research evidence related to each component phase.
Due to the wide educational remit of this module, previous knowledge of perioperative practice is strongly recommended, however, should this not be the case, your Module Leader will be able to provide a structured and functional learning plan whilst undertaking this module.
AC6755 -
Genomics, Pathology and Complexities of Care (Optional,20 Credits)
The genomics, pathology and complexities of care module will engage with both historical and contemporary debates around the care of patients with both common and less common pathologies.
This module will aim to explore human cellular function, identifying the role genes play in both typical physiological function and atypical physiological processes.
Through exploration of cellular function, you will be guided through directed study of the human body systems, which will allow a structured approach to learning.
Your learning will be guided towards pathologies which are commonly seen in the UK population, but you will also be given the opportunity to discuss those which occur less frequently.
A group of specialist lecturers will identify and prepare topics within this module will be primarily focussed around the perioperative environment, allowing some in depth discussion to take place around the identified pathologies.
The chosen pathological topics will aim to catalyse debate of the complexities associated to the disease process in question, and the current treatment regime.
This will allow a critical analysis of international, national and local guidelines, while offering the opportunity to identify areas for further learning activity.
Your teaching team will work closely with you to identify topics of personal or professional interest which can then be focussed towards your summative assessment.
AC6757 -
Supporting Survivors of Sexual Violence/Abuse (Optional,20 Credits)
During this module you will develop your knowledge and skills in supporting survivors of all types of sexual abuse.
This will include critical evaluation of key theoretical concepts underpinning the nature of sexual violence/abuse.
This module is aimed at and open to those that work with adults, young people and children within the health, social care, and education setting.
The module aims to develop knowledge of the factors that influence the sexual violence/abuse of children, young people, and adults.
You will develop a critical understanding of legislation governing the role and responsibilities of the professional in supporting, signposting, and safeguarding people.
More specifically, in this module you will explore and learn what is defined by sexual violence/abuse and the complexity of this topic (sexual violence is a term that incorporates many different sexually violent crimes).
This will include in-depth analysis of sexual violence statistics; the increased rates of disclosures following high profile historic sexual abuse case and the #metoo movement; the burden of sexual violence/ abuse on immediate and long-term health, the impact on government monies and the emotional effect on professionals supporting survivors.
There will be a critical exploration of gendered based abuse and sexual violence as a continuum in society; Victim blaming and disclosure - myths, unconscious bias, and assumptions surrounding sexual violence and the barriers for disclosure; explore disclosure - whom people disclose to, response in both the social and formal setting and the impact of the response on health and wellbeing.
We then go into depth regarding emphasising knowledge of the links to risk, indicators, impact, legalities, signposting.
Legal & Professional Frameworks: exploring the legal considerations should the case go to court – awareness of procedure CSP / expert witness Vs professional witness / giving evidence.
Throughout the module we will also touch upon: trauma focused practice, ethical, legal, personal, socio economic, environmental and cultural considerations and frameworks; current legislation and policy regarding to sexual violence / abuse; response to public enquires and serious case review; working with abusive families; empowerment, power and relationships; self-safeguarding; professional roles and discipline guidelines, inter-disciplinary and inter-agency working; collaborative working practice, sharing of information and overcoming territorial historical boundaries.
You will also explore comprehensive assessments, documentation, personal conflict issues, advocacy and dealing with sensitive and difficult situations.
As part of this module, we will build on skills you will already have around communication, escalating concerns, vulnerable adults, dignity and respect.
We will also explore capacity and consent in complex situations.
AC6758 -
Safeguarding Adults, Young People and Children (Optional,20 Credits)
During this module you will develop your knowledge and skills in safeguarding adults, young people and children.
This will include critical evaluation of key theoretical concepts underpinning safeguarding.
The module aims to develop knowledge of the factors that influence the abuse of children, young people and adults and consider when early intervention is required to support adults at risk, children, young people and their families.
You will develop a critical understanding of legislation governing the role and responsibilities of the professional in safeguarding people.
Throughout the module you will explore and learn: definitions of abuse, historical and current perspectives of abuse and statistical evidence; ethical, legal, personal, socio economic, environmental and cultural considerations and frameworks; current legislation and policy regarding to safeguarding people; response to public enquires and serious case review; working with abusive families; empowerment, power and relationships; self-safeguarding; professional roles and discipline guidelines, inter-disciplinary and inter-agency working; collaborative working practice, sharing of information and overcoming territorial historical boundaries; you will also explore comprehensive assessments, thresholds for intervention, documentation, personal conflict issues, advocacy and dealing with sensitive and difficult situations.
As part of this module we will build on skills you will already have around communication, escalating concerns, vulnerable adults, dignity and respect.
AC6759 -
Sexual Health Advisor: Principles of public health and partner notification (Optional,20 Credits)
The module focuses on three key elements: •	Analysis of the core public health principles, models and approaches to assessment and motivational interviewing to develop a robust formulation of evidence to underpin partner notification practice •	Evaluation of the core elements that constitute safe, ethical and person-centred partner notification •	How to undertake client partner notification processes informed by appropriate legal, ethical and professional frameworks and guidance, and articulate and document your evidence-based decision making for any partner notification interventions you provide or refuse.
The module introduces you to the existing evidence base which informs your practice; enables you to understand and critique the evidence and apply it to your own practice.
You will learn how to; find and critique evidence directly related to the module using online library and skills plus services, develop your writing, referencing and presentation skills at graduate level enabling you to build upon and further develop your current academic skills.
The module develops your ability to understand how to undertake partner notification with your client, based upon current legal, ethical and professional guidance and advise the client on possible preventative and treatment options including the risks and benefits.
This will require you to articulate and document evidence based defensible decision making related to partner notification practice.
It also helps you to evaluate your own practice setting in terms of what constitutes safe and ethical practice.
AC6778 -
Cardiac Health in Contemporary Clinical Practice (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will explore the anatomy and physiology of the heart before applying this knowledge to the altered pathophysiology of acute and long term conditions associated with heart disease.
Topics include coronary heart disease, heart failure and atrial fibrillation.
You will learn the value and application of comprehensive assessment, investigation and management of patients with the common heart disease presentations.
The importance and focus of contextualised inter-professional working, patient empowerment and the scope of health care provision for certain heart disease conditions within primary care settings will be integral to the module, including the holistic impact on both patients and their families.
MW0629 -
Neonatal Intensive care (Optional,30 Credits)
You will develop your knowledge and understanding of the infant and family requiring Neonatal Intensive care.
You will understand complicated altered physiology that leads to the need for intensive support and physiological care of the infant.
You will learn the importance of a collaborative approach to family centred care and how the needs of the infant and family are essential to Neonatal intensive practice.
You will understand the complexities of caring for a child requiring intensive care in relation to nutrition, hydration, pain management, infection prevention, resuscitation, palliative care, discharge and transfer to neighbouring units or home.
The module builds on the subject matter covered in the specialist and high dependency module.
The subject matter may appear similar; however, the focus is very different when considering intensive care, as opposed to specialist and high dependency.
MW0630 -
Neonatal Special and High Dependency care (Optional,30 Credits)
You will develop your knowledge and understanding of the infant and family requiring specialist and high dependency care.
You will begin by understanding neonatal physiology from conception to birth, and understand how an infant’s physiology changes to adapt to extra uterine life.
You will also learn how any altered physiology/abnormality can lead to ill health within the Neonatal period, requiring specialist and high dependency care.
You will learn the importance of a collaborative approach to family centred care and how the needs of the infant’s family are essential to Neonatal practice.
You will understand the complexities of caring for a child requiring specialist and high dependency care in relation to nutrition, hydration, pain management, infection prevention, resuscitation, discharge and transfer to neighbouring units or home.
The module builds the foundation to discuss these issues and others in the intensive care infant, in the second module of the award.
You will also learn how neighbouring units care for infants and will discuss differences in care and practice to understand Neonatal care regionally.
AC6750 -
Improving Outcomes in Health & Social Care Practice (Core,40 Credits)
You will learn and develop your extended project skills, identifying and evaluating practice on an organisational, social, and political level.
You will examine the impact of your health and social practice interventions on outcomes for your patients, clients, or service users.
You will demonstrate your ability to evaluate, critically analyse and apply knowledge in a health and social practice context.
The value of this analysis and knowledge application will be specifically linked to the impact it has on the outcomes of your client group.
You will learn how to relate policy and legislative drivers to health and social practice delivery ensuring that evidence-based practice is applied across a range of client groups and contexts.
The module will encourage you to consolidate the knowledge, skills and abilities developed throughout the programme in a final project, displaying your development in health and social practice, contextualised to your area of practice.
AC6760 -
Assessor and Supervisor Preparation in Clinical Practice (Optional,20 Credits)
During this module you will develop your knowledge, skills and expertise in supervising and assessing individuals and groups of both patients and other learners in a classroom environment and a clinical practice environment.
This will include an evaluation of key theoretical concepts underpinning learning, supervising and assessment.
Building on and deepening prior learning you will further develop a greater understanding of how patient education in clinical practice can influence ill health prevention and the holistic health and wellbeing of the individual.
This will include an analysis of the barriers and enablers to your practice role in helping patients learn and change their behaviour.
You will also explore models of education in theory and practice contexts and you will practice the delivery of teaching and learning to other individual learners and groups of learners working in clinical practice.
Building on prior learning you will explore how assessment influences learning and critique the learning challenges of different types of supervision and assessment, including the practice supervision and assessment of competency.
AC6762 -
Fundamentals of research methodology (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will develop a comprehensive understanding of quantitative, qualitative, and mixed-methods research theories, approaches, and methodologies.
Throughout the module, you will engage with research experts to conceptualise the different approaches to research being undertaken at the forefront of academia and practice.
By the end of this module, you will be able to recognise and critically evaluate quantitative, qualitative, and mixed-method theories, approaches and methodologies.
You will also be able to justify their use in the field.
This module will prepare you for your dissertation module.
AC6764 -
Foundations of Teaching and Learning in Practice (Optional,20 Credits)
The module will focus on the development of expertise in leading educational practice for a variety of learners, supervisors, assessors and the wider workforce within a professional context.
As a student on this module, you will engage in work based inter-professional learning, teaching and development opportunities with a range of learners and educational partners to support and advance professional education in practice.
Campus based sessions will critically explore and apply a range of teaching and learning theories and strategies and will be supported by directed, group and e-learning activities.
This will include use of Blackboard Ultra the Modules e-Learning Platform (eLP) to access Panopto (lecture capture recordings) and video activities as well as the use of a range of other online learning and teaching technologies and applications as directed by the module team.
Peer, tutor, supervisor and/ or mentor formative feedback will support individual development.
Summative assessment will require verification of the achievement of educational standards in practice and the submission of a critically reflective account of your development as an educationalist and their impact on teaching and learning in practice.
Subject areas you will study include: Context of learning, specialist practice, Interprofessional learning, policy drivers Designing, planning, implementing and evaluating a range of evidence based learning experiences and curricula for learners, supervisors, assessors, mentors and the wider workforce.
Applying and critiquing teaching and learning theory and practice.
Learning and teaching strategies, working with individuals, leading and facilitating small and large groups.
Formative and summative assessment, assessment of and for learning.
Constructive feedback, feed-forward.
Analysis of complex information, judgements and decision-making, challenges for professional education.
Developing professional supervisory relationships.
Professional codes/educational standards, accountability Leading and developing practice education, higher education and practice partnerships.
Maintaining and enhancing quality in educational practice.
AC6766 -
Introduction into Leadership, Management and Decision Making in Health and Social Practice (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will focus upon three central and complex areas key to the development of your own practice i.e.
Leadership, Management and Decision Making.
The module will therefore prepare you to apply effective leadership within the delivery of your service.
You will learn about models and frameworks of leadership and application of these within your area of professional practice.
This will include leadership styles, communication strategies and conflict management.
You will learn to access strategies and behaviours for effective leadership and management that will assist you in achieving and maintaining leadership of self and others.
Module content will also include the main theoretical approaches to decision making and allow you to explore and apply these principles.
You will learn to evaluate the complexity and uncertainty within which judgements and decisions are made, examining how decision-making skills are acquired and better utilised in the range of health and social practice.
AC6768 -
Leading Quality and Service Improvement in Practice (Optional,20 Credits)
This module is for students on the BSc Health and Social Practice programme.
This module will help you advance your knowledge, understanding and skills in relation to leading practice in your own professional field.
You will have the opportunity to identify an area of contemporary practice with a focus on quality improvement, seeking to improve service user outcomes through the systematic review of services against specific criteria.
Following this, recommendations for service improvement are identified.
You will have the opportunity to plan and complete an evaluation, sourcing and critiquing a range of relevant contemporary evidence, apply leadership and change theories and contextualise learning in order to prepare you for leading practice.
The module content will include, clinical evaluation approaches, leadership and change theory, development of strategic leadership skills and networking, promotion of research-based practice and integration of research and theory to practice.
You will have the opportunity to apply and relate what you learn on the module towards your academic assessment, which is the development and presentation of a poster.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/health-psychology-dtfhpy6:
Using a blend of research-led teaching and practical experiences, on this course you will explore:
You will learn from an expert team with a variety of health-related backgrounds and excellent research records.
Through our experience and networks, we will ensure that you and your learning are at the cutting edge of health psychology.
The MSc Health Psychology programme is accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS) as a Stage 1 practitioner training route.
For students who already possess Graduate Basis for Chartership with the BPS, successful completion of the programme will allow them to apply for a further two years of supervised training (Stage 2) which will allow them to become Chartered Psychologists and be eligible for registration with the Health & Care Professions Council using the protected title of Health Psychologist.
The programme has been developed to fulfil a regional and national need for qualifications and training in Health Psychology.
This full-time course is heavily employment-focused and will prepare you for roles in the areas of health promotion, healthcare delivery, illness management and rehabilitation.
Previous graduates have gone on to work across a spectrum of health-related psychology disciplines locally, nationally and globally.
Their roles have included careers as assistant psychologists in the NHS, charitable organisations and the private sector.
Some have moved on to research posts, and others are undertaking PhDs.
The broad skills-base means that health psychologists are also attractive to consultancy companies looking for expertise in training, research or intervention.
You will gain first-hand practical experience of a range of measurement and intervention techniques that are not available on other courses of this kind, and we support you in using these experiences to develop your own areas of expertise in work-based and research settings.
Our ecologically valid sleep centre, stress laboratory, and practical sessions involving measuring your own stress hormones and stress-reduction techniques are just some of the unique aspects of the programme at Northumbria University, Newcastle.
*Please note that this course is on a first come, first served basis and application is therefore competitive*
Discover our other similar postgraduate study options that might interest you: MSc in Learning Disability Nursing Science , MSC in Mental Health Nursing , Health and Social Practice MSc or Psychology MSc
Mode of Study 12 months Full Time 1 other options available
Department Psychology
Why Study Psychology
Blog Post
While our teaching methods include traditional lectures, seminars and discussion groups, we place a strong emphasis on non-traditional methods of learning.
These include interactive and practical learning sessions.
This approach has been developed around the techniques that you will need in the workplace after graduation.
In addition to exam and essay-based assessment, we use a variety of innovative assessment methods to develop the skills you will need to progress in the health psychology field.
These include funding applications, health campaigns, reviews, reports for non-academic audiences, reflection and personal development.
During this course your on-campus lectures, workshops and seminars will all be timetabled on a Monday and Tuesday.
For a Masters programme like this we expect a commitment of around 35 hours per week - how you do your self-directed study is completely up to you.
All members of the teaching team are actively involved in research and practice.
It also includes many staff members who also provide consultancy on a commercial basis.
This means you can be sure that all modules are highly relevant to current developments in the sector.
The Health Psychology team receives excellent feedback from students and external examiners.
The BPS and other experts in the area have praised the staff for their enthusiasm and innovative methods of delivering materials and assessing knowledge on the programme.
The programme content is based on contemporary research findings and utilises our network of experts in the field.
This ensures that you are connected with leading researchers and practitioners in the discipline.
Several teaching sessions are delivered by visiting practitioners, providing you with first-hand accounts of health psychology in practice.
This will also broaden your network of professional contacts.
Health Psychology Staff
Angela Rodrigues
Jason Ellis
Professor of Sleep Science
Mark Wetherell
Michael Smith
You will gain first-hand practical experience of a range of measurement and intervention techniques that are not available on other courses of this kind, and be supported to develop your own areas of expertise in work-based and research settings.
All postgraduate Psychology students have access to the PG hub for group and individual work.
It also offers the opportunity for non-assessed group work, such as journal clubs.
Part-time students particularly benefit from online IT facilities which include electronic reading lists, lecture capture and feedback tools to support learning.
Northumbria’s eLearning Portal includes discussion boards and a dedicated psychology area which provides a convenient communication forum when you’re off campus.
You will have first-hand experience of research techniques through case studies, workshops and published evidence.
This approach strengthens your analytical skills and allows you to develop your own research interests and areas of expertise.
The thesis is an opportunity to conceptualise, plan and execute research and to analyse and interpret data with real-world application.
To extend the research focus of the course, your thesis will be written as a journal submission, which means you may be able to publish your paper.
The Northumbria Centre for Sleep Research
Brain Performance and Nutrition Research Centre
See more of our Research
Our career focused course prepares you for roles in the areas of health promotion, healthcare delivery, illness management and rehabilitation.
Previous graduates have gone on to work across the spectrum of health-related psychology disciplines locally, nationally and globally.
Some work as assistant psychologists in the NHS, charitable organisations and the private sector, some have moved on to research posts, and others are undertaking PhDs.
This course, when accompanied by the BPS Graduate Basis for Chartership (GBS) is an excellent start to professional development as a practitioner on the completion of Stage 2 training.
A minimum of a 2:1 honours degree in Psychology (or MSc equivalent), or a minimum of a 2:1 in another subject including relevant work experience.
Applicants must produce a personal statement detailing their reasons for applying to the Health Psychology course at Northumbria University.
In some cases, applicants will be required to answer additional questions related to research methods and background knowledge into Health Psychology.
JC7000 -
Academic Language Skills (ALS) for PG Psychology Students (Core – for International and EU students only,0 Credits)
PY0770 -
Health Psychology in Theory and Practice (20 Credits)
In this module you will learn that the impact of behaviour on health is one of the key areas of health policy concern in the 21st Century, and that health psychology is at the heart of how the state is trying to get us to live longer, healthier and happier lives.
Understanding the theory and practice of health psychology will give you the knowledge and skills to understand and design behaviour change interventions.
You will learn that a range of factors contribute to how we behave, and you will look in detail at how health psychology theories have attempted to systematically develop and apply this understanding.
In tandem with developing a sound theoretical understanding of health psychology, each week we will couple the theory content with an insight into its practical, real world application.
These in-practice sessions will be delivered by health researchers from a broad range of current practice.
From them and from our Health Psychology team, you will learn about the practicalities of conducting health research.
We will bring to the classroom some recent and on-going intervention studies in areas as diverse as altered eating in head and neck cancer survivorship to how to deal with the health impacts of misinformation.
By the end of the module you will have learned how to use health psychology, in theory and in practice, to improve people’s lives.
Some specific topics covered include: Economic, cultural, social and psychological determinants of behaviour Key health psychology theories such as the theory of planned behaviour Theoretical frameworks for developing, describing and evaluating psychosocial interventions How to put together a grant proposal for funding.
Individual lectures from researchers describing their intervention development work.
PY0771 -
Lifespan, Individual and Cultural Perspectives on Health Psychology (20 Credits)
You will gain an insight into the inter-individual (e.g.
personality, intelligence, illness perceptions) and cultural influences on physical health and wellbeing from a lifespan perspective.
Topics will be introduced and discussed in context of psychological and physiological disorders that manifest at different stages of the lifespan (e.g.
obesity, dementia, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, sexually transmitted infection etc.).
Theories such as ‘Developmental Origins of Health and Disease’, which implicate early life psychosocial factors as predictors of later life health and wellbeing, will be critically discussed.
You will also learn that the pathways from individual and cultural factors to health and illness are complex, and involve a number of mediating and moderating factors.
PY0772 -
Psychosomatic Pathways to Health and Illness (20 Credits)
You will learn about the psychobiological mechanisms that act as pathways between psychological and behavioural factors and physical and psychological health outcomes.
Starting with key biological systems, and using examples including stress, sleep and pain, you will explore how these systems interact, and how they can be measured to provide indices for research and clinical indicators of health and disease.
Topics will include: Biological mechanisms (e.g., nervous, endocrine, cardiovascular and immune) and their interaction Biopsychosocial models of health and disease Biological and clinical indicators of health and disease (practical measurement and analytical techniques) Individual differences in biological activation and disease vulnerability Interventions and opportunities for modifying mechanisms This module meets criteria set by the British Psychological Society (BPS) for the core areas of physiological and psychosomatic disease processes and measurement issues.
The assessment for this module requires the application of knowledge into real-world practice and will developing your professional skills with regard to communicating with a range of audiences, and thus enhance your graduate attributes for further qualifications and employability.
PY0773 -
Systems Approaches to Understanding Health and Disease (20 Credits)
You will learn how a full systems approach (i.e.
from macro influencers such as governments and organisations such as the World Health Organisation through to micro influencers such as individuals’ attitudes and beliefs about their health) can help us understand, and evaluate why differences exist in healthcare practice and policy.
You will explore how the concepts of health, illness, sickness and disease are constructed, measured and managed across a range of real world contexts and how decisions made at differing system levels can shape the health and wellbeing of the individual.
Topics include: How diseases, disorders and conditions are defined and prioritised The descriptive and statistical analysis of health behaviours and disease trends How health promotion campaigns are created, managed and evaluated under the framework of public health The impact of family and peers on health behaviours and disease management The role of individual differences in healthcare encounters and the impact of those encounters on health outcomes
PY0775 -
Professional Skills (20 Credits)
This module is designed to provide you with a range of professional skills important for your academic and professional development in Health, and Sport & Exercise Psychology.
It will assist with preparation for your thesis as you learn about advanced bibliographic skills, project proposals, and research management, ethical and legal issues.
You will learn employment-related skills, media skills, and personal and career development skills such as presentation and communication as well as C.V.
enhancement.
You will also make practical applications of skills using online resources and employ self-reflective approaches to recording and enhancing awareness of your professional development in Health, and Sport & Exercise Psychology.
MSc Thesis (Core,60 Credits)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/health-psychology-dtphpy6:
The MSc Health Psychology programme is accredited by the British Psychological Society ( BPS ) as a Stage 1 practitioner training route.
This part-time course is heavily employment-focused and will prepare you for roles in the areas of health promotion, healthcare delivery, illness management and rehabilitation.
*Please note that this course is on a first come first served basis and application is therefore competitive*
While our teaching methods include traditional lectures, seminars and discussion groups, we place a strong emphasis on non-traditional methods including interactive and practical learning sessions.
This approach has been developed around the techniques you will need in the workplace after graduation.
During this course your on-campus lectures, workshops and seminars will all be timetabled on a Tuesday in first year and on a Monday in second year.
You will gain first-hand practical experience of a range of measurement and intervention techniques that are not available on other courses of this kind, and be supported to develop your own areas of expertise in work-based and research settings
View our Facilities
The thesis is an opportunity to conceptualise, plan and execute research, and to analyse and interpret data with real-world application.
A number of research and other work opportunities often arise through staff and their network of contacts.
You will have the opportunity to meet a number of these contacts through teaching sessions with visiting experts and researchers.
The course prepares you for careers in the areas of health promotion, healthcare delivery, illness management and rehabilitation.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/health-education-and-social-care-foundation-year-uufhed1:
The course is designed to provide you with an introduction to health, education and social care knowledge and skills, including IT and academic research.
You will be taught by a range of experienced academics and be supported at every step of your course to ensure an enjoyable experience that will enhance your learning and future employment prospects.
Academic knowledge and intellectual curiosity are promoted throughout the foundation year, assisting you to achieve your true potential.
The progression towards critical thinking begins in this course and will be further developed as you progress onto undergraduate study.
The enquiry-based learning approach will empower you to become an active and independent learner with the ability to effectively communicate with a wide range of audiences through a manner of platforms.
Our teaching team bring both knowledge and experience in practice and academia.
The emphasis and support of a research rich learning environment will equip you with the confidence and skills needed for future study.
98% of our Nursing graduates are in highly skilled employment or further study 15 months after graduation (Guardian University Guide, 2025).
Education at Northumbria is ranked Top 20 in the UK by the Complete University Guide for 2025.
What are the courses I can take after completing this foundation year?
Northumbria University has a well-established suite of Health, Education and Social Care related degree programmes.
Upon completion of the Foundation Year, you will be able to apply to progress on to the following courses after a successful interview (for professional programmes) and satisfactory occupational health and DBS clearances:
UCAS Code B760
Mode of Study 1 year Full Time followed by a further 3 years full-time study
Department Nursing, Midwifery & Health, Social Work, Education and Community Wellbeing
Northumbria's Department of Nursing, Midwifery and Health offers students the opportunity to develop caring careers that can transform the lives of patients, families and communities.
Simulated learning using virtual reality recognised as example of best practice in nursing education.
Northumbria University has been nationally recognised for the exceptional support it provides for nursing students after winning a coveted Times Higher Education award.
Northumbria to develop its Centre for Health & Social Equity.
Nursing Student wins national award from the Student Nursing Times.
The Health, Education and Social Care Foundation Year is taught over two semesters and will be completed in one academic year.
The course will provide you with a strong grounding in fundamental debates, theory and practice, alongside research skills that are relevant to health, education, and social care.
It will enhance your theoretical knowledge of the wider determinants of health, education and social care and provide you with transferable skills relevant to further undergraduate study in these subject areas.
The modules within the course will develop your understanding of collaboration and professionalism, fostering team working, adaptability and academic study skills which are fundamental to future study and employment.
If you are an international student, you will have access to Academic Language Skills (ALS) sessions to help you develop your academic language, writing and study skills.
Furthermore, you will be continually assessed throughout the foundation year which will provide a gradual development of your ability and self-confidence.
Assessment methods will be both formative and summative, to measure not only your learning, but to help shape it and develop your intellectual ability.
Overall, assessments are designed to motivate you, stimulate your interest and challenge you to develop your academic and creative skills.
We ensure that our students learn from the best.
Our staff are inspirational academics, with a genuine passion for their subject.
Our courses are at the forefront of current knowledge and practice and are shaped by world-leading and internationally excellent research.
The foundation year is delivered at an exceptional level from a range of academics across the two departments of Nursing, Midwifery and Health, and Social Work, Education and Community Wellbeing.
Our academics are active researchers, engaging at a local, national and international level in their chosen fields and routinely impart this knowledge into their teaching, as well as scientific conferences and publications.
Guest speakers may also be part of the course to give a broader perspective and contemporary context to the module content.
We will also provide you with a Personal Tutor (PT) who will support you to reflect on and monitor your own learning journey.
Technology Enhanced Learning is embedded throughout the course.
The most important lecture content is usually recorded so that you can listen again for clarity or revision purposes, or to support comprehension of English language.
You will have access to the libraries both at Coach Lane and City Campus, which host a collection of 500,000 print books, over 843,000 ebooks, and an extensive print and ejournal collection of over 110,000 titles so that our students and staff can access learning resources at the point of need.
Over the course of your studies, you will begin to explore research methodologies and how to evaluate the quality of research.
You will then re-visit these topics in each module as you explore the evidence base for subjects and assessments.
The research interests of academic staff inform our teaching and helps ensure that what you learn is fully relevant and up to date.
Your learning journey will be underpinned by developing your skills and understanding of the importance of evidence-based and learning the application of research.
Throughout the Health, Education and Social Care Foundation Year, we emphasise the development of your professionalism, resilience, communication and decision-making skills which will have value in every workplace.
We will give you feedback and specifically assess your ability to craft and present a persuasive argument to others, which gives you confidence and competence.
Northumbria University’s Careers and Employment Service will also support you with CV advice, interview preparation and portfolio development.
Throughout the Foundation Year, you will develop attributes including reflection and insight.
The course prepares you to think and act independently.
Independent learning will prepare you for future learning and your career.
As the nature of health, education and social care continues to evolve, your transferable skills will help you thrive.
The Health, Education and Social Care Foundation Year is designed to support your progression and application to undergraduate degree programmes.
Your Personal Tutor will be happy to guide you in the process of applying.
A degree qualification is widely seen as an essential first step to more advanced clinical, research, educational and management roles within your future career pathway.
HS3005 -
In this module you will explore concepts of becoming a professional working in health, social care, and education (HSCE).
HS3006 -
Preparation for Undergraduate Study (Core,20 Credits)
Designed to support you to think critically and consider academic theory and how it informs practice, you will examine theory and practice- based health, education and social care.
Alongside this, you will work on the basic principles of writing academic work and explore academic language and how to understand it; explore the different styles and how to edit and proof-read your own work.
Quantitative method will allow you to test a hypothesis by systematically collecting and understanding data.
Throughout the module, you will engage in a wide variety of learning activities to give you the opportunity to gain critical understanding of health, education and social care structures and processes.
HS3007 -
This module is designed to meet the needs of healthcare, education and social care students with differing experiences across a diverse range of speciality and subject-specific areas.
Throughout the module, you will engage in a wide variety of learning activities and critically examine aspects of valuing self and others related to personal development, communication and empathy, unconscious bias, health literacy and working in a health, social care and education setting as part of a team.
HS3008 -
In this module you will explore human development in the world, and how this relates to health, education and social care service provision in contemporary society.
HS3009 -
Collaborative working in Health, Education and Social Care (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will explore concepts of interprofessional working in health, social care, and education.
This module explores the various roles of professionals, semi-professionals, and non-professionals, including roles and responsibilities and working across multiple services and roles.
You will explore the key influences that affect the provision and delivery of these services in UK contemporary society.
This module also explores the role of multi-agency/disciplinary working, using real life situations to highlight the strengths and limitations of partnership working.
HS3010 -
The structure of this module has been developed to support your transition to learning in a Higher Education institute.
The design is student centred and has been developed to incorporate project work linked to the national agenda for health, education and social care.
Students’ will be guided/directed to research, appraise and evaluate a chosen health, social care or education related topic, where they will be given the opportunity be analyse and present findings based on best evidence.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-healthcare-leadership-and-management-dtfhlt6:
12 months Full Time
Nursing, Midwifery & Health
Looking to make a real impact in the evolving healthcare
sector?
This MSc Healthcare Leadership and Management equips you with the
knowledge, skills, and confidence needed to drive meaningful change.
This course is perfect for those wanting to develop or
enhance leadership and management abilities, responding to the growing global
demand for skilled professionals.
You'll gain new perspectives on healthcare,
learning from both experienced academics and a diverse, multicultural student
cohort.
Key topics you’ll cover include Strategic Management in
Healthcare, Leadership and Collaborative working in Public Health and Healthcare,
Health Improvement through Social Marketing, and Research Methods.
You’ll also work on a research project focused on an area
that interests you professionally, deepening your understanding of these key
subjects.
Choose from a 12-month full-time, 17-month-full-time or 28-month part-time option to fit your personal and professional needs.
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree or its equivalent in a relevant subject and senior work experience in healthcare practice or evidence of commitment to working in Health Management.
International qualifications If you have studied a non UK qualification, you can see how your qualifications compare to the standard entry criteria, by selecting the country that you received the qualification in, from our country pages.
Visit www.northumbria.ac.uk/yourcountry English Language requirements International applicants are required to have a minimum overall IELTS (Academic) score of 6.5 with 6 in each component (or approved equivalent*).
AC0778 -
Research: Approaches, Methods and skills (Core,30 Credits)
On this module you will appreciate the knowledge and skills needed to undertake research.
You will learn about research philosophy, methodology and the different methods associated with a range of research traditions.
You will explore the value of research evidence in informing public health and healthcare management practices and be able to apply the principles of research to critically appraise research quality.
Specifically on this module you will learn about: •	Locating and organising literature •	Philosophical assumptions and foundations of enquiry •	Qualitative, quantitative and mixed methodological approaches •	Data collection, data analysis and interpretation •	Research governance and ethical issues •	Analysis and interpretation By the end of the module you will be able to prepare a research proposal on a topic of interest to yourself and of value to public health / healthcare management.
AC0779 -
Strategic Management of Healthcare (Core,30 Credits)
This module will enable you to understand and critically appraise theories and concepts of strategic management approaches in relation to healthcare organisations.
You will be introduced to the conceptual foundations of strategic management focussing on the essential strategic tasks of leadership and management.
In particular, research and theory on organisational behaviour will foster your understanding of the impact of positive and negative relationships within the organisational healthcare culture.
You will learn how leadership and change management skills are addressed as an integral part of management in relation to communication and strategic planning for healthcare leaders.
The module is particularly relevant if you are a senior or aspiring manager working in healthcare but is also very relevant if you have an interest in management in healthcare organisations.
As a manager in a strategic role, you could be setting objectives for the organisation and creating the routes towards reaching these goals.
Key area you will study include:- Understanding healthcare organisations: Challenges for Healthcare Management: global perspectives Strategic Management: levels of strategy; Strategic planning Service Area Competitor Analysis: Determining obstacles and boundaries Environmental Analysis: Internal and external resources Management for high performance healthcare The Organisational setting: The meaning of organisational behaviour; Organisational practices Managers and managerial behaviour: Principles of management; Managerial roles; Managerial effectiveness and leadership Culture and climate in healthcare organisations: Cross-cultural leadership You will critically apply knowledge within areas of your discipline and /or healthcare management that will support your future employability and long term career prospects.
AC7024 -
Dissertation Project (Core,60 Credits)
This research rich module will enable you to bring together the knowledge, understanding and skills that you have accrued from other modules on your programme.
Prior to the undertaking this module, you will have completed the appropriate level of study that prepares you for engagement with a Masters dissertation process.
The module provides you with a vehicle for developing, refining and applying your research skills in an independent project.
You will identify a topic with which you are familiar, and which you believe has scope for development or change that will be the focus of your independent study.
You can chose one of two methods to structure your dissertation.
-	Systematic Review :A structured analysis of evidence -	Empirical research: Based on primary data analysis or secondary sources In the module, you will revisit and deepen your understandings of a range of key topic areas linked to the research process within your chosen method.
This may include discussion of worldviews and research paradigms, research design, working with literature and theory, developing ethical codes, collecting robust research evidence, ensuring quality assurance within your research work, and writing and disseminating the research dissertation work.
There will be a series of research seminars during the module and you will have access to a named supervisor for one to one supervision work.
Both the seminars and supervision will enable you to critically examine how the research process will work best for your dissertation goals and design.
AC7029 -
Leadership and Collaborative Working in Public Health and Healthcare (Core,20 Credits)
Through studying this module you will learn about the theories and models of leadership and management relevant to public health and / or healthcare management.
You will explore models of partnership working and the importance of working collaboratively to improve the health of the public.
You will explore the application of leadership and management within contexts responsible for the provision of public health and / or healthcare management.
You will gain an increased understanding of the importance of working in collaboration with partners to maximise resources and lead on health activities that aim to improve the health of the public and develop health services.
You will critically evaluate a range of core concepts, theories and frameworks which are fundamental to understanding leadership and management theories and models of partnership working.
You will have the opportunity to reflect on your own skill base and identify developmental needs in becoming an effective leader who is responsive and adaptive to change.
Your learning on this module will include some of the key tasks involved in leadership and management within public health and / or healthcare management.
Specific areas that you will study will include:- •	Leadership and management theories •	Performance management and resource allocation in public health and healthcare management services •	Collaborative leadership skills development.
•	Effective partnership working •	Approaches to negotiation and influencing •	Using tools for service improvement •	Leading in different public health and / or healthcare management contexts.
AC7030 -
Developing management and leadership competencies in Healthcare (Core,20 Credits)
This module will support you in developing your personal and professional competencies as an existing or aspiring manager.
You will develop your self-awareness and self-management, interpersonal skills and your abilities in working with others.
You will focus specifically on developing core management and leadership skills and understanding the theories, concepts and models that underpin those skills.
The broad areas covered by this module include: Self -awareness and reflection Interpersonal skills including emotional Intelligence Team dynamics and team working Communication You will work on further enhancing your personal effectiveness by focusing on how you work effectively with others, through collaborating, influencing, and negotiating.
You will have opportunities to consider ways in which leadership and management skills can be applied in a healthcare context.
The importance of self- awareness and reflection will be a key feature of this module.
On completion of the module, you will be able  to critically analyse your own competence in relation to your professional practice or future career aspirations and present a personal development plan, which is appropriate to your chosen  career context.
AC7118 -
Health Improvement: Behaviours, Practices, Interventions and Management (Core,20 Credits)
In this module, you will learn what health improvement is and how to critically understand the role that health behaviours, practices, interventions and forms of health communication play in health improvement.
You will explore the origins, content and organisation of health improvement practices in the UK and beyond (including cross-national comparisons and international policies and practices).
The module will enable you to identify and critically reflect on the main theoretical principles underlying health improvement and critically apply these to improving health and in response to health inequalities and inequities.
You will examine how various forms of intervention in health improvement (including community development, social marketing and critical health communication) can be (and have been) used to influence health and social change.
You will learn how to effectively solve real-world problems and develop skills to enable you to plan, implement and evaluate appropriate health improvement interventions.
You will also engage in peer-learning, drawing on the wide variety of practice experience possessed by our cohorts.
Key topics you will study include:- •	Introduction to Health Improvement: Origins, Content and Organisation •	Theories of Behaviour Change and Health •	Health Communication: Theories, Approaches and Practice •	Cross-national Case-studies in Health Promotion: Developing Critical Understandings of Wellbeing •	Social Marketing and Health Improvement •	Health Improvement and Community Development (including Community Wealth Building, Asset based, Foundational Economy etc) Health Informatics and ‘Learning Health Systems’ •	Evaluation, Ethics and Public Participation in Health Improvement •	Health Improvement: Comparisons and Lessons
This MSc prepares you for roles in healthcare leadership and
management across public, government, voluntary, non-governmental organisations, and
private sectors worldwide.
If you wish to continue your studies, there are
options to pursue a PhD, or you could explore careers in teaching or research.
We also provide ongoing career support, including career
guidance, CV advice, portfolio building, and interview preparation.
The course
helps you develop key skills for high-level roles, such as initiative, personal
responsibility, problem-solving, teamwork, and planning.
The course is taught by experienced lecturers with extensive
knowledge of healthcare leadership and management roles, ensuring all content
is relevant to the workplace.
Engagement with current research is a key pillar
of the course.
You'll receive full support throughout your studies.
For
non-native English speakers, additional support is available.
Dr Jason Scott
Dr Guy Tucker
Dr Sebastion Potthoff
Dr Zeb Sattar
This course is based at our City Campus, which features
modern facilities designed to ensure your learning stays up-to-date with the
latest industry developments.
Technology is integrated throughout, with ongoing support
via our e-learning platform, Blackboard, where you can access course materials,
lecture slides, and more.
Key lectures are recorded for you to revisit.
If English isn’t your first language, you can also access
the Academic Language Skills (ALS) program to improve your language, writing,
and study skills.
Newcastle City Campus

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-healthcare-leadership-and-management-dtfhld6:
17 months Full Time
Social Work, Education and Community Wellbeing
January 2026
Choose from a 12-month full-time , 17-month full-time, or 28-month part-time option to fit your personal and professional needs.
This MSc prepares you for roles in healthcare leadership and
management across public, government, voluntary, non-governmental organisations, and
private sectors worldwide.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-healthcare-leadership-and-management-dtphld6:
28 months Part Time
Choose from a 12-month full-time , 17-month-full-time or
28-month part-time option to fit your personal and professional needs.
This MSc prepares you for roles in healthcare leadership and
management across public, government, voluntary, non-governmental organisations,
and private sectors worldwide.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/master-of-research-healthcare-professional-practice-dtphcf6:
If you are a registered healthcare professional interested
in progressing your career, and at the same time making a real difference for
your patients/client group through your research, then this course could be the
ideal opportunity.
You’ll gain the necessary skills and be supported to implement
service improvements from your own practice experience within the healthcare
sector.
Led by a highly experienced teaching team, you will learn
everything you need to know to undertake, use and critique ethically sound and
impactful research within your area of practice, whether that’s Nursing,
Midwifery, Physiotherapy, Occupational Therapy, Operating Department Practice
or any other allied health professional field.
The course is delivered in a blended format, to allow you
maximum flexibility in fitting study around your work and other commitments.
During the first year you’ll have access to interactive e-lectures through Blackboard
Ultra, and come onto campus for half a day every other week to consolidate your
learning through interactive seminars with your inter-professional peer group.
During the second year you will undertake a major research
project, either based on your own workplace or within a research group at
Northumbria University.
You’ll receive 20 hours of one-to-one support from your
supervisor, who will be an expert in an area of direct relevance to your chosen
topic.
By the time you graduate you will be fully equipped to
undertake research to inform your area of practice, as well as critically appraise existing
evidence relevant to your role.
Studying on this programme will
support future career progression, enabling you to move into senior positions
within your area of practice, and to contribute to the future of the
healthcare.
Please note: Teaching will take place on Thursday afternoons.
Find out more about studying an MRes at Northumbria University here
See other similar courses you may be interested in: Sport, Exercise and Health Science MRes
We’ve structured this course so that registered healthcare
professionals with little or no previous research experience can develop
competency in designing, developing, implementing, and disseminating research.
Where you’ll be able to put your theory and research to test within our simulation-based learning environment
and see your impact to improve the healthcare sector.
The induction period will help you settle into the course,
with interactive talks on expectations for postgraduate study.
You’ll meet your
peer group, and receive details about your degree structure, timetable,
assessment schedules, and marking criteria.
Over the course of the first year you’ll study a
‘Contextualising Research’ module which will consolidate all your learning.
You
will gain understanding of differing methodological approaches and how these
are applied in a research study.
All of these modules equip you to undertake
your own major research project in the second year.
You will experience a range of innovative learning
techniques, including a ‘flipped classroom’ approach where you have access to
online lecture materials prior to seminars, group work and inter-professional
peer learning, and an enquiry-based learning (EBL) approach designed to
facilitate your own personal learning requirements.
Summative assessments will focus on communication skills and
will ‘feed forward’ into your subsequent summative assessments.
All programme
assessments are authentic tasks which simulate the kinds of activities that
health researchers routinely undertake, for example report-writing and
presentations, to give you the best possible preparation for future
professional research.
The course will be led by a team of highly experienced
academic staff, who have been involved in a wide range of healthcare and
education research.
Many of them continue to engage in cutting-edge research
projects, giving you the opportunity to become part of an inspiring research
community.
You will be well supported by the programme team.
You’ll be
allocated a Personal Tutor who will be there for you throughout the programme,
and a dissertation supervisor who will be in close contact with you during the
second year.
In addition, the module tutors are happy to help with issues
specific to their modules, and the programme leader will be available to offer
guidance throughout.
The breadth of experience in the department means that your
allocated dissertation supervisor will be an expert in an area related to your
chosen topic.
This can include academics from other departments such as Sport,
Exercise and Rehabilitation if that’s what you require, thanks to the
multidisciplinary nature of our research culture here at Northumbria.
We will also bring in guest lecturers from other disciplines and
from professional practice, to give you new perspectives and insight into the implementation of research.
They’ll
make you consider the practicalities of your research, give you access to the
research culture here at Northumbria, and support with career advice.
Meet the team of module leaders who will be working with you at Northumbria University.
Dr Philip Hodgson
Dr Gemma Wilson-Menzfeld
Dr Lucia Rehackova
Maggie Coates
At our base on Coach Lane Campus you will benefit from
modern teaching facilities, and from being immersed in an environment dedicated
to the study of healthcare.
This environment gives you the opportunity to reflect on
your learning and collaborate with your peers, who will be from a variety of
professional backgrounds but working towards similar career goals.
Technology-enhanced learning is fundamental to the blended
learning approach, and each module will have extensive learning resources
available through Blackboard Ultra.
This will include recorded lectures for you
to watch in your own time, presentation slides, reading lists, assessment
details and a dedicated discussion board.
Through online discussions you can
keep in contact with your peers while you are away from campus.
The University Libraries at both Coach Lane Campus and City
Campus offer an extensive collection of material, access to international
databases, and training in information retrieval.
Study space is also available
in the library if you require somewhere quiet, and you can find a variety of
study skills materials on the library’s Skills Plus site.
If you are an international student you can also benefit
from the support of our Academic Language Skills Programmes (ALS).
The
programmes will run alongside your studies to help you develop your academic
language and communication skills within a healthcare context.
Explore the outstanding facilities available at Northumbria University.
This programme has been designed to equip you with the
research skills that will enable you to both progress in your career, and make
a positive impact on your client group.
Working with your inter-professional
peer group within the active research environment at Northumbria, you will
acquire valuable critical skills that will last a lifetime.
You will develop the ability to critically evaluate current
healthcare evidence, advanced skills in quantitative and qualitative analysis,
and an understanding of how best to communicate complex findings to a variety
of audiences through journal articles, conference posters or oral
presentations.
The dissertation module will enable you to demonstrate
mastery in independently conducting an ethically sound and innovative research
project within your area of interest, benefitting you within practice.
You will
apply the advanced research skills and techniques you’ve developed during the
programme, and exhibit your skills in critical evaluation and synthesis of
research findings, all supported by our research-active staff.
Our academic staff have extensive research experience across
nursing, midwifery and health, where our work informs policy and practice to
improve quality, safety and effectiveness.
Our areas of research strength
include.
Health Economics & Applied Statistics, Living
Better in Later Life, Workforce Education and Practice Development,
Implementation and Innovation Research, Veterans and Military Families
Research, Multiple Long-term Conditions.
If you want to progress in your healthcare career then
undertaking practice-based research is key to gaining professional recognition
and development.
This course will equip you to work independently with Higher
Education Institutions that will help to shape the future of your profession.
We have designed our curriculum to meet the needs of NHS
Trusts, to ensure that we will be equipping students with the right mix of
skills to make an impact.
These include project management, collaboration,
statistical analysis, leadership and communication skills, which are in high
demand across the sector.
Over the course of the programme you will become a
reflective practitioner, so that throughout your career you will understand how
to apply your skills in different contexts, and how to identify areas for
further development so that you can reach your full potential.
You will be able to apply everything your learn within your
own sphere of practice, whether that’s nursing, physiotherapy, occupational
therapy or any other related field.
Together with the major project based on a
genuine issue within your workplace, this course offers the perfect blend of
transferable skills and practice-based learning.
We will support your career aspirations with sessions on
successful networking, self-promotion, and disseminating your research for
maximum impact, as well as CV advice, portfolio guidance, and interview
preparation.
You may even be able to publish a research paper as a result of
your work on the course.
If you wish to continue your studies to PhD level,
this course is also ideal preparation to give you access to those opportunities.
If there is one place to study, it's Northumbria.
Heather Darwen
The programme embraced my clinical experience and has guided me through the principles of research within the context of my practice.
Kaye Walsh
Applicants should normally have: A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree or equivalent.
Registration as a healthcare professional (or licence to practice) with a nursing regulator or appropriate licensing board / health department.
AC7058 -
Contextualising Research (Core,30 Credits)
On this year-long module you will learn a variety of key skills (both practical and theoretical) which underpin the contexts of research.
These will be delivered to support / complement the other methodological / impact modules on the MRes Healthcare Professional Practice.
You will be given the opportunity to explore your own research interests and potential questions, whilst developing them into a viable research project.
This will then allow you to explore the contextual factors of your potential research project in a way that is tailored to meet your own methodological and research interests.
It will result in the production of a proposal which can then be taken forward to the dissertation module.
You will be given the opportunity to learn topics such as: •	Epistemology and ontology of research •	Developing a research question •	Project management •	Mixed methods research •	Ethics and governance •	Co-production •	Public and patient involvement The aims of the module are to both help you to understand and develop your own research project, and also have the opportunity to carry out some of the key skills required with support of the tutor.
This will help you understand the overall journey of a research project, from inception to dissemination, and enable you to experience the practical and logistical skills required to successfully complete a research project.
This module will enable you to develop the professional and reflective skills needed to be a good researcher that will underpin your future research and professional practice.
AC7061 -
Research Impact and Influence (Core,20 Credits)
The main purpose of research within healthcare is to ultimately have a positive impact on patient care and/or health outcomes, but what is impact and how can it be measured?
This module will help you to evaluate the whole concept of impact and influence within health research.
The module will start by examining impact, i.e.
what it means and how it can be measured at multiple levels within health and social care.
You will have the opportunity to review impact case studies and critically debate with your peers the elements that determine the greatest impact and influence on clinical practice.
You will critically appraise your role as an insider researcher and be able to recognise how your role will influence your research, from developing your research question to dissemination and impact of your findings.
Ensuring you have the necessary time and resources is critical in conducting a successful research project and so within the module you will examine the importance of research funding, identifying funding opportunities and developing grant applications.
You will explore methods on how to promote your research, including examining the use of technologies and benefits of networking.
Dissemination is a vital part of your research and you will critically explore why and how to disseminate your finding.
As part of this you will also develop practical skills around producing abstracts and posters, delivering oral presentations and writing for publication.
Finally, you will explore different research career pathways and examine the opportunities and challenges these different roles may bring.
This module will enable you to develop life-long learning skills that will benefit your future research projects and research career pathway.
AC7078 -
Preparation and Understanding of Research Methodology (Core,20 Credits)
AC7079 -
Preparation, Understanding, and Application of Research Methods (Core,20 Credits)
In this module you will develop a comprehensive understanding and application of quantitative, qualitative, and mixed-methods research methods.
By the end of this module, you will be able to apply appropriate research methods to undertake empirical investigation.
This will include knowledge regarding obtaining a research sample, collecting data, analysing and interpreting data, and reporting findings.
The content of this module is supported by the previous research module ‘Preparation and understanding of research methodology’.
This module will help to prepare you for your research dissertation.
AC7062 -
On this module you will have the opportunity to independently conceptualise, plan and undertake a research study that contributes to knowledge and understanding in your field of practice.
You will critically evaluate current theories and evidence in order to generate your own research question.
You will engage with the relevant ethical guidelines to design a feasible project plan.
You will develop your skills as an independent researcher and research leader during this module as well as identifying points of collaboration with supervisors, research staff and other potential stakeholders.
You will have the opportunity to communicate your research plans in both written and oral form and then use a variety of relevant skills, techniques and research methods in order to implement your study.
Finally you will have the opportunity to disseminate your findings in written form.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-history-extended-degree-uusxtr1:
BA (Hons) History at Northumbria combines the study of the past with 21-century themes – you will learn to think about how history provides a deeper perspective on present-day challenges, as well as focusing on how these skills can enhance your future employability.
Throughout, you will gain new understanding of present-day concerns, including environmental change, global connectivity, racial and gender equality, war and conflict, and media and culture.
With modules on American, African, British, Middle Eastern, and European history, from the Middle Ages to the contemporary, you will follow your academic passions and shape your own degree.
Student Rated: 100% of students studying History at Northumbria believed the course was intellectually stimulating and felt they had chance to explore ideas and concepts in depth (NSS, 2025).
See other similar courses you may be interested in: BA (Hons) History and Politics , History and American Studies BA or check out our undergraduate History courses .
UCAS Code Z008
Your tutors will use a variety of teaching methods including lectures, small-group discussions and individual tutorials.
These will be backed up by regular feedback and consultation hours during which you can discuss your progress with a personal tutor and ask further questions.
We make sure that extensive feedback from tutors and peers is built into the course.
Assessments will develop your communication skills while also testing your grasp of the learning outcomes for each module.
Assessment methods will include essays, presentations, portfolios of work and a final-year dissertation.
To ensure the quality of the student learning experience, some modules are subject to minimum and maximum student numbers and will run depending on the level of demand and staff availability.
With a large number of History staff in the Humanities Department, each with their own specialist areas of interest, you will learn from experts.
Our staff are not only teaching their specialist subjects but are making major contributions to their field.
Charlotte Alston
Daniel Laqua
Joseph Hardwick
Laura O'Brien
We use a variety of electronic resources to support your studies, for instance by posting guidance and lecture materials on the ‘Blackboard’ eLearning Portal and by making core readings available online.
Further facilities are available at the Institute for the Humanities, a special research space in the University’s Lipman Building.
Students also have access to a designated Humanities Student Hub, providing space for self-study, group work or a rest in between teaching sessions.
At Northumbria your learning will be directly impacted by the teaching team’s passion for the past, their professionalism and enthusiasm for engaging with primary documents.
Their research is fundamental to the University’s distinctive learning experience.
In each year of the course, we will develop your research skills as you critique different interpretations of the past, formulate questions, and develop coherent arguments.
In the final year you will undertake a dissertation on a topic that you negotiate with tutors.
It’s a test of academic maturity that will enable you to demonstrate independent learning, intellectual rigour, and self-directed purpose.
History graduates are especially valued because of their transferable communication skills and the way they evaluate evidence and think critically.
You can use your history degree as a platform to launch a career in areas such as finance, law, journalism and the civil service.
There are also jobs in museums and archive management, or you can consider becoming a professional researcher by studying further at the postgraduate level.
During your studies, you will have the chance to undertake a work
placement in an institution such as a museum, archive, heritage site, or
comparable employer.
This will give you an awareness of how the skills of
historical study can be applied professionally.
You will also have the opportunity to spend a semester in North America or
Europe, continuing your historical studies in a new context.
You can study a
foreign language to assist with this, or travel to broaden your cultural
horizons.
An international outlook will give you an extra edge in the job
market.
Every module will play a role in developing and reinforcing the transferable
attributes that are necessary for graduate employment: effective time
management, excellent communication, good teamwork and high-level analysis.
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study History.
The Force of Suspicion: Scandals, Rumours and 'Fake News' in History (Core,20 Credits)
HI4009 -
Cultures, Empires and Ideas: Global Histories of Power and Ideology (Core,20 Credits)
This module deals with major historical concepts and questions, and it allows you to study how these took (or changed) shape in different periods and parts of the world.
In Semester 1, the emphasis is on the themes of empire and civilisation.
You will investigate features that may have been shared by different empires and you will consider how these sought to rule over diverse populations.
Empires often claimed to be acting as ‘civilising’ forces and the module allows you to question imperial ideologies of this kind.
Moreover, you consider cultural interactions, from coexistence and mutual exchange to violence and oppression.
In Semester 2, you will analyse and discuss a range of primary texts that will introduce you to particular ideas, their historical contexts and significance.
You will  encounter key works in the history of political thought and will thus get to analyse arguments about the meaning of the state, the nature of government and the necessity for political change.
In this context, you will consider challenges to existing hierarchies and power relations, including those linked to empire, as well as the assumptions that underpinned such inequalities.
The module enables you to study historical phenomena and ideas from the ancient world to the present day.
Its overall approach is global, with a geographical scope that encompasses Europe, the USA, sub-Saharan Africa, South Asia, the Arab World and China.
HI4010 -
A Disunited Kingdom?
The British and Irish Isles since 1750 (Core,20 Credits)
This module offers you a thematic survey of Britain in the transformative period since 1750.
The module is intended to provide you with a conceptual treatment of the development of British society to complement other modules.
By examining 11 key British historical figures it provides students with a broad overview from the mid-eighteenth century to current debates on immigration and national identity, drawing attention to key themes and debates.
It encourages the development of the historian’s skills of analysis.
Among the key themes covered are: national identity and the making of a nation; the transformation of the system of production; the transformation of patterns of reproduction (including population and occupational change); transformations in systems of governance, power, protest and social policy; the transformation of popular culture and ritual; empire, immigration and the Britishness debate; and war, political and social change in the twentieth century.
Throughout the module you will be exposed to the tensions and contests that existed between different views of Britain and Britishness: for instance between frontiers and centres; between ‘enlightened’ and popular cultures; and between the politics of parliament and the politics of the street.
HI5030 -
Debating History (Core,20 Credits)
This module will introduce you to the main themes in Western historiography since the late nineteenth century (broadly speaking, the professional era).
Within a largely chronological framework, the first part of the module will introduce you to significant approaches to the study of history, including empiricism, the Whig interpretation, Marxist approaches, cultural history, the postmodern approach, the transnational turn, environmental history, and the history of the emotions.
Running throughout the lecture and seminar course are questions relating to how we know things from the past; and how the concerns of the present might or might not motivate historians’ work.
Halfway through the second semester, you will have the opportunity to apply these debates to a concrete example from one of the other historical themes you are studying in another history module.
You will receive training in independent research skills to help you approach this task.
HI6028 -
History Dissertation (Optional,40 Credits)
In this module you will be provided with the skills to complete a dissertation on a topic that you will negotiate with your supervisor.
The History dissertation represents the culmination of your undergraduate studies.
It will enable you to apply the skills they have acquired at earlier levels to a discrete body of primary sources related to an identifiable area of historical enquiry.
It is an exercise in research and is intended to develop your research skills and your ability to work independently.
Dissertation topics will be supervised by an appropriate tutor, who will guide you through the various stages of formulating, researching and writing this substantial piece of work

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-history-and-american-studies-extended-degree-uusxtr2ast:
BA (Hons) History and American Studies at Northumbria combines the study of the past with themes of American society, culture, and politics.
You will learn to think about how history provides a deeper perspective on present-day challenges, and apply these ideas to aspects of the American present, as well as focusing on how these skills can enhance your future career options.
You will gain new understanding of present-day concerns, including environmental change, racial and gender equality, war and conflict, and economics and health.
You will also have the opportunity to delve into African, British, Middle Eastern, and European history, with options taking you from the medieval to the contemporary world.
Our degree sets you on a path towards a wide range of future careers.
We give all students a chance to work on a placement with a local business or cultural partner, and our unique module on place and heritage helps you learn about policy making in the real world.
More broadly, as you explore new approaches to understanding conflict and society, past and present, in the Americas and beyond, you will be prepared for many future careers.
Recent alumni work in jobs that range from barrister or property manager to university researcher to archive manager, author, teacher, and much more.
You will be taught by leading researchers in the field.
Our historians were ranked 10th in the UK for the quality of their published research in the Research Excellence Framework, 2021.
You also develop your own research skills, leading to a dissertation in your final year that will give you a voice in contemporary historical debates and build your confidence as you think about your own career after graduation.
You will also have the option of extending your studies, either taking a placement year in industry or opting to study abroad in continental Europe or North America.
History at Northumbria is ranked 26th in the UK for research power, out of 81 institutions (REF, 2021).
This represents a rise of 5 places since 2014.
Discover all of our available History Courses or see similar courses: History and Politics BA , American Studies BA .
UCAS Code Z010
You will take History core modules that introduce you to different time periods, places and themes, while also building up the skills that will allow you to flourish in your studies.
American Studies modules include 'From Sea to Shining Sea: US History, 1776-2008' and 'Introduction to American Studies', giving you a grounding in methods and approaches specific to American Studies.
As you progress, you will be given a wide variety of options to choose from.
For American Studies, you can pick from modules that explore the American experience from different angles, including Literature, Film, Politics and History.
By undertaking specialist study led by academic experts, you will build up your research skills, which will culminate in your final-year dissertation.
We help you to prepare for this with an American Studies Extended Essay.
The degree programme has clear connections to present-day issues: conflict and society; global links; environmental change; debates about race and gender equality; the power of culture and the media.
These themes are at the heart of our History programme and are also reflected in the work of our American Studies staff.
They teach on subjects such as the US Civil War, US foreign policy, the American environment, African American civil rights, the counterculture in the San Francisco Bay Area, and the media’s role in US presidential politics.
Teaching takes a variety of formats, including lectures, seminars, and tutorials.
You will have the opportunity to work alongside your fellow students in group exercises and discussions.
Field trips will allow you to experience the many facets of the Anglo-American relationship over the course of history.
During your studies, you will have the option to study abroad for a semester or a full year on an exchange programme, for instance with one of our North American partner institutions.
You will also have the opportunity to complete a placement year in industry or a study abroad exchange programme.
Our course is taught by leading scholars in the fields of History and American Studies.
The enthusiasm, experience and expertise of our academic staff will ensure that your student journey is both intellectually challenging and enjoyable.
Over the past decade, Northumbria University has made major investments to boost the number of academics working in History and Academic Studies.
As a result, we offer teaching and guidance on a wide range of topics.
They are also involved in editing the book series Critical Insights in American Studies (Edinburgh University Press).
Major funding bodies such as the Arts and Humanities Research Council and the Leverhulme Trust have supported the work of our academics, who are also strongly engaged in working with the media and collaborating with external partners, including the US Embassy in London.
Many of your lecturers have won prestigious awards for their research from US bodies such as the Organization of American Historians.
Technology is built into all of our courses and will help you to connect and enjoy your learning experience.
Our staff are continually experimenting with new ways of facilitating interaction, including the use of mobile technology and social media.
Moreover, you will have the option of generating online content to communicate findings from your project work, for instance as part of our ‘Your Graduate Future’ module.
We offer a range of virtual learning platforms that provide access to course materials, as well as an opportunity to engage with your learning community.
The University Library boasts around half a million books, with nearly 843,000 electronic books.
It is open 24/7, giving constant access to everything you need to support your studies.
The American Studies online resources include access to more than fifty electronic databases of primary materials relating to America.
At Northumbria, we offer research-led teaching.
This means that our staff draw on their specific expertise to develop original and cutting-edge modules.
This expertise includes US popular music, presidential and congressional politics, the Civil Rights movement, American and transatlantic modernist literature, feminist and queer literary theory, environmental history, and the history of gender, body, and sexuality.
Lecturers in American Studies at Northumbria have published books and articles about the Black Panther Party, African American popular music, the transatlantic anti-slavery movement, the Civil Rights movement, the Civil War, California’s beaches, the history of fitness and the muscular body, feminist visual cultures, the history of energy systems, and Nicaragua’s ‘Contra’ War.
Popular modules include 'Law & Order USA: Police, Prison and Protest’, ‘America in the 1960s’, ’The African-American Freedom Struggle’ and ’The American West’.
The course will allow you to develop your independent research skills from the outset.
You will receive guidance and support from staff to help you develop your own research questions through special tasks in both the ‘Making History’ and ‘Introduction to American Studies’ modules.
Then, you will produce a longer piece of independent research in the American Studies Extended Essay, as well as doing as having the opportunity to design a group project in the ‘Your Graduate Future’ module.
In your final year, you will embark on your most sustained research project, the dissertation.
The dissertation will allow you to formulate a sophisticated answer to a complex research problem, and you will receive expert supervision from an expert member of our academic team.
Studying History and American Studies together means you can be taught research across both disciplines.
Our programme is designed to prepare you for the future: as someone who can think critically, communicate clearly and work effectively with others.
You will learn to combine excellent research skills with the ability to analyse texts, to assess evidence and to weigh up different arguments.
You will develop an understanding not only of the cultural, social and political dynamics of past societies and contemporary America, but of the modern world more generally.
The versatile set of skills that you will develop through your studies is key to unlocking your success after graduation.
Graduates from our courses in both History and American Studies have gone onto careers in the civil service, journalism, teaching, advertising, marketing, PR and law.
American Studies Extended Essay (Optional,20 Credits)

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-history-and-american-studies-newcastle-uushtr2ast:
UCAS Code T720
As the degree programme includes reading and analysing literary and historical articles, students may wish to purchase or print copies of primary materials (scholarly texts, novels, collections of poetry, plays, etc.) for their own personal use in seminars to allow for annotation and close engagement.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-history-and-politics-extended-degree-newcastle-uusxtr2plt:
Core modules in our History and Politics degree provide a grounding in both history and politics as well as the links between them.
Optional modules offer considerable flexibility to pick and choose from revolutionary movements in Europe and major debates in American history to issues such terrorism and genocide.
The course teaches transferable skills, with options for work placement as well as a period of study abroad.
To begin with your learning will focus on the acquisition of research and communication skills, then you will delve into employability and project management, and your final year will allow you to showcase independent learning through a research project of your choice.
History
at Northumbria is ranked 26th in the UK for research power, out of 81
institutions (REF, 2021).
Discover all of our available History Courses .
UCAS Code Z057
These will be supported by regular feedback and consultation hours during which you can discuss your progress with a personal tutor and ask further questions.
Assessment methods will include debates, oral presentations, essays, portfolios of work and a final-year dissertation.
See modules for this course .
Our staff are not only teaching their specialist subjects but also write major books and journal articles.
In doing so, they add new knowledge and perspectives to our understanding of the past and contemporary politics.
Our pastoral support is designed to ensure that you can conduct your studies to the best of your abilities.
Staff will help you develop the skills required to plan, manage, and review your learning, and will support you should you encounter any issues.
We are using a variety of electronic resources to support your studies, for instance by posting guidance and lecture materials on the ‘Blackboard’ eLearning Portal and by making core readings available online.
The academic team is always looking to find new ways to facilitate interaction, and this includes the use of mobile technology and social media.
There are over half a million print books and half a million electronic books available online.
Further facilities are available at the Institute for the Humanities, in the University’s Lipman Building.
Students also have access to a designated Humanities Student Hub in the Lipman Building, providing space for self-study, group work or a rest in between teaching sessions.
At Northumbria your learning will be directly impacted by the teaching team’s passion for the past, as well as their professionalism and enthusiasm for engaging with primary documents.
In the final year you will research and write a dissertation on a topic that you negotiate with tutors.
It is a test of academic maturity that will enable you to demonstrate independent learning, intellectual rigour, and self-directed purpose.
History and Politics graduates are especially valued because of their transferable communication skills and the way they evaluate evidence and think critically.
You can use your degree as a platform to launch a career in areas such as finance, law, journalism and the civil service.
There are also jobs in museums and archive management, or you can also consider becoming a professional researcher by studying further at the postgraduate level.
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study History and Politics.
IR4002 -
Democrats and Dictators (Core,20 Credits)
How can we distinguish between democratic and non-democratic regimes?
How does the nature of the political system affect the dynamics of rule, representation, accountability and participation in democratic regimes?
Similarly, how can we differentiate between non-democratic regimes and how do we explain their existence?
How and why do some countries seek to democratise?
Why do these efforts succeed in some cases but fail in others?
These are the core questions that you will consider on this module, which is organised around four main topics: the conceptualisation of democratic and non-democratic regimes; political systems in democratic countries; the categorisation and governance of non-democratic regimes, and democratisation, paying attention to the role of domestic and international forces.
Each of these topics is further underpinned by the themes of rule, representation, accountability and participation, which you will also explore in modules at levels 5 and 6.
IR4003 -
International Conflict and Cooperation (Core,20 Credits)
In this module I will engage with key concepts and theories of International Relations and learn essential academic skills.
I will learn about the three standard schools of International Relations thought, i.e.
Liberalism, Realism and Marxism, and begin using them to understand states and state practice, as well as the ordering of the international.
In this module I will learn to question common sense beliefs about what states are and the status of the powerful (e.g.
US, UK) by engaging with academic literature and case studies.
Key concepts will include sovereignty, hegemony, war, peace, security etc.
IR4006 -
Thinking Politically (Core,20 Credits)
The aim of the module is to introduce students to the main thinkers, ideas and debates within political philosophy and political theory.
The module differentiates between the different branches of politics (i.e.
political economy, political philosophy and theory, and political science) before examining the debates about human nature; the nature of society without government; the arguments for and against democracy; justifying the existence of the state and state rule; liberty; equality; how to produce and distribute the goods and services that society needs and desires; and social justice.
Furthermore, it links these debates – and the ideas and theories that inform them – to a range of contemporary political ideologies (e.g.
conservatism, liberalism, feminism, etc.) and assesses the impact of these upon politics and society more generally.
IR5003 -
Theories and Practice of Democracy (Core,20 Credits)
What is a democracy?
Are elections enough?
How can Western European democracy be improved in contemporary society?
In this module you will be invited to challenge the traditional view that elections are sufficient for democracy.
In doing so, you will explore democracy beyond the ballot box; examining  theoretical and contemporary debates and practices surrounding direct and indirect democracy, political representation and participation.
Case studies will be used to explore themes such as: citizen participation (e.g.
participatory budgeting, consultation, citizen juries, deliberative polls), non-electoral representation, partnership working and governance, in context of the so called shift from government to governance.
There is a key focus on building your employability in the module.
As part of the assessment, you will be asked to take part in a participatory budgeting/competitive funding bidding process.
Where feasible, this will be based on a real life project remit linked with the goals and objectives of an external organisation.
You will learn knowledge and practice skills used in policy-making, public governance, community engagement and developing and assessing successful funding applications.
This is relevant to many roles in the public, private and voluntary and community sectors e.g.
community and volunteer engagement officers, elected members, fund-raising officers, researchers etc.
Employment related skills gained from this include: team-work, presentation skills, creating and justifying arguments, developing and assessing the merits of funding bids, finding and using evidence, using online IT tools and systems, budgeting public funds and developing projects to meet specific criteria.
IR5005 -
Global Governance (Core,20 Credits)
You will learn about global governance and international organisations in theoretical-conceptual terms as mechanisms to steer and solve problems of international/global scope.
You will explore one or more international organisation to understand whether and how these organisations are able to meet the demands required for that purpose, studying in depth both their normative and institutional framework.
This will include studying the main actors and bodies of an organisation, the organisation’s aspirations set out in the respective charter as well as key policy development over time.
Historic case studies or policy analysis will be used to supplement your understanding of the successes or failures of the international organisation to meet its own aspirations and/or facilitate international cooperation.
Subject to staff availability, the international organisations analysed may include the United Nations, the European Union, NATO, etc.
IR5008 -
Theories of International Relations (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module I will learn how different scholars have thought about and conceptualised international relations.
I will study the range of theories of International Relations, including the three main schools of Liberalism, Realism, Marxism and their variants, and post-structural and critical theories.
Learning about the different ways in which we can see, understand and explain international relations will provide me with a better range of tools to form my own understanding and explanation of what I observe, study and read, and thus enhance my skills of critical analysis when engaging with academic literature but also when engaging with political events around the world.
Theories covered in this module will include: •	Neorealism, Neoliberal institutionalism, English School, Constructivism, neo-Marxism •	Critical theory, Postmodernism/Poststructuralism, Feminism, Postcolonialism, International Political Theory
IR5009 -
UK Politics Beyond Westminster (Optional,20 Credits)
On this module I will investigate the changing nature of the British political system and gain an understanding of the role of a policymaker who works within the civil service.
This module will develop my understanding of how politics in the UK operates within and beyond the traditional Westminster Model, paying particular attention to particular ‘policy challenges’ that are pertinent to the work of ministers and the civil service.
The module enhances my empirical knowledge with a strong historical and current focus on the changing nature of the British political system.
The module will test a number of my assumptions about the nature of the British political system and give me a clearer understanding of the role and importance of the development of policy in the civil service, and an insight into the role of the civil servant.
IR5011 -
From Bastille to Strasbourg- A Journey through Human Rights (Optional,20 Credits)
On this module you will explore human rights through three main themes: the philosophy of human rights, the implementation of human rights, human rights and globalisation.
In the ‘philosophy of human rights’ section, you will analyse the history of the concept of human rights and its critiques, starting with the first universal declaration in 1789.
In the ‘implementation of Human Rights’ section, you will critically analyse its gradual codification and legal implementation, at an international, European and national levels, and how real protection mechanisms were implemented after the Second World War, and critically evaluate its limitations.
You will focus on three areas: the European Convention on Human Rights and the new rights acquired by European citizens to defend themselves against their own State; the rise of constitutional courts, focusing on the development of constitutional democracies as opposed to majority democracies and the frictions such a change has entailed, using France and Britain as case studies; the role the EU has played for the protection of human rights, starting from the So Lange case in Germany that forced the EU to become more attentive to Human Rights to an exploration of the four freedoms and finishing with an analysis of the European Charter of fundamental Rights.
In the ‘Human Rights and globalisation’ section you will examine the challenges human rights face in a globalised world by focusing on the universalist versus relativist debate on the one hand, humanitarian intervention and right to protect on the other.
IR5012 -
Representing Political Violence (Optional,20 Credits)
This module looks at the ways in which political violence is represented in the media, specifically the ways political violence is racialised and gendered.
You will look at race and gender as analytical categories in international relations, along with the methodologies that scholars use to research these, and you will apply these understandings to the study of political violence via case studies such as the FARC, the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, the War in Iraq, Daesh and Black Lives Matter.
IR6001 -
Active Citizens (Optional,20 Credits)
Questions about the concept of crisis and the nature of crisis provide the starting point for this module.
It encourages you to build upon the critical understanding of democracy and governance that you gained in Theories and Practices of Democracy at level 5 and Democrats and Dictators at level 4, but approaches the topic from a different perspective.
Against this background, you will explore the range of different ways that citizens, particularly as part of organisations and global social movements seek to influence and, in some cases, challenge the state and/or market.
In this respect, the concept of civil society and the dynamics of state, market and civil society relationship are central to this module.
Using case studies, the module will consider themes such as anti-globalisation and anti-capitalist movements; the politics of pressure, lobbying and campaigning; think tanks; wealth, power and philanthropy; and the politics of “everyday activism” and volunteering.
IR6002 -
Critical Security (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module I will critically engage with the concept of security.
I will especially be introduced to traditional and non-traditional concepts of security.
This includes an engagement with traditional notions of security (i.e.
state security) and the emergence and increasing political importance of non-traditional security (including, but not limited to, human security, comprehensive security, environmental security, food security, energy security, water security).
I will critically evaluate the utility of traditional and non-traditional notions of security.
Within the non-traditional security complex, I will examine the different types of security, including their differences and similarities, their usefulness, and through case studies and I will engage with their real-life application and global political relevance.
IR6004 -
Genocide (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module I will analyse how ideas of genocide have evolved throughout the twentieth century.
I will be encouraged to consider the political and legal consequences of genocides, and to engage with the socio/cultural/ethno/economic/religious explanations that some key thinkers have forwarded as being causal factors of genocide.
I will also examine how policymakers have grappled with the problem of preventing and stopping genocides once they have begun.
IR6008 -
Terrorism (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module I will analyse how ideas of terrorism have evolved throughout the twentieth century.
This module offers me an opportunity to study in some depth the modern terrorism phenomenon and the methods currently being undertaken to counter it.
I will focus essentially on two questions: what, exactly, is terrorism and what can be done about it?
IR6010 -
War Games- Negotiating Security through Simulations (Optional,20 Credits)
‘War Games’ is a module aimed at training students in negotiation techniques through the usage of simulation games.
The module has general and specific objectives.
At the general level, it aims to provide students with key skills in international negotiations, applied to international organisations’ decision making (including the European Union and the United Nations).
It also aims at providing students with a greater knowledge of international organisations’ policies and politics.
The last general objective is to allow students to experience negotiation processes through real feel simulations, which will underline the challenges associated with international diplomacy and decision-making.
Where the specific objectives are concerned, this module is very much focused on employability and on developing students’ skills for the challenges to the job market.
War Games is directly linked to the students’ learning journey through the International Relations and Politics degree and rests on the shoulders of the ‘Global Governance’ and ‘International Conflict and Cooperation’ modules.
IR6011 -
Decolonial Politics (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will give students a theoretical and empirical understanding of decolonial politics.
The first part of the module will cover key schools of thought in decolonial theory and the historical context of the five hundred years of European colonialism on which they draw.
The second part of the module will apply decolonial theories and concepts to a number of contemporary issues and topics, including humans’ relationship to nature and the climate emergency, indigenous sovereignty, decolonial research methodologies, the case for reparations, and debates around decolonising higher education itself.
Students will be encouraged to think and learn through objects and museum exhibits alongside standard, text-based resources, and this aspect of the module is fully integrated into the form of assessment.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/history-and-politics-ba-hons-uushtr2plt:
UCAS Code LV21

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/history-ba-hons-uushtr1:
UCAS Code V100

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/history-ma-dtfhtr6:
The MA History course will introduce you to rich historical subjects, as well as how to complete historical research in the digital age.
All modules will be taught by staff who are experts in their field and draw upon their expertise to enhance your learning experience.
Offering a flexible approach to study, this course incorporates five core modules, which mix conventional historical study with training in research methods.
We include close consideration of the big interpretative questions, animating the study of history today.
A particular strength of the course is how it familiarises students with digital history projects and contemporary debates.
These taught modules provide you with the skills needed to write your dissertation on a subject of your choice.
Working with a specialist supervisor, your dissertation topic will reflect your interests and showcase your knowledge throughout your degree.
You will be supported throughout your degree by your specialist supervisor as well as the staff working in the Department of History at Northumbria University.
The department is made up of around 30 historians, all of which are active in publishing journal articles and books when not teaching.
They specialise in a range of different time periods, geographical regions and incorporate a variety of different approaches to history.
Our staff are very approachable and always keen to hear what our students are working on.
Throughout your postgraduate studies, you will have access to our leading learning facilities, and you will be welcome at academic events and seminars hosted by the new Institute of the Humanities.
This includes the fortnightly History Research Seminar, where we welcome historians from throughout the world to show us their latest research.
If you already have quite a clear idea about a particular topic you’d like to explore, or you’re interested in a research-based career, then you might want to consider our History MRes .
Mode of Study 1 year Full Time 4 other options available
Watch Alumnus Georgia Smith as she talks about her experience studying both BA and MA History here at Northumbria.
This course is primarily delivered via a classroom setting, with regular face-to-face supervision.
This course can also be undertaken as a distance-learning course through a Virtual Learning Environment (VLR).
Our wide-ranging modules will deepen your historical understanding and help prepare you for the dissertation.
'War and Peace in Historical Context' will develop your understanding of the social, cultural and political consequences of war in rich and varied contexts.
'British Empire and its Imperial Rivals' will enhance your understanding of the global history of colonialism, one of history's most dynamic forces.
'Historical Contexts' has a twofold purpose.
It will introduce you to some of the key questions animating current historiography and showcase the historical expertise within the department.
Finally, 'History in the Digital Age: Institutions, Issues and Ideas', an innovative and wide-ranging module, will give you the insights and cutting-edge skills needed to make a success of your dissertation.
The assessment methods employed on this course include historical and historiographical essays, oral and written presentations, critical reviews and portfolios of work.
Your dissertation will form a large part of the assessment process and will be overseen by a supervisor who specialises in your subject area.
The subjects our academics teach reflect their research interests.
All are authors of influential books and articles, adding new knowledge and perspectives to our understanding of the past.
You will be assigned a dedicated dissertation supervisor with specialist knowledge of your chosen subject area.
They will guide you through your project with the help of our team of support staff.
Boasting doctorates, awards and extensive academic knowledge in their particular specialism, you can be confident you are learning from the best.
Dr Katarzyna Kosior
Neil Murphy
Dr Daniel Laqua
Associate Professor of European History
Dr Edward Anderson
Assistant Professor in History
You will also have access to a designated Humanities Student Hub, providing space for self-study, group work or a rest in between teaching sessions.
You will receive support at every step of your learning journey through our on-campus facilities and innovative e-Learning Portal, Blackboard, which will allow you to access electronic versions of your course’s supporting documentation.
Delivered by our team of renowned academics, you will be learning from research-active experts who boast specialisms in all aspects of history including early modern and modern British, European, imperial and global history.
In addition to our established strength in political, cultural and social history, we have growing strengths in environmental history and the history of material culture.
Many staff are qualified to professorial level and engaged in collaborative research projects, which are often part of national or international research networks.
Northumbria is in the top ten nationwide for the quality of
its research publications in history where 90% our research publications
are world-leading or internationally excellent.History at Northumbria is ranked 26th in the UK for research power,
according to 2021 Research Excellence Framework .
Departmental Research
Click to discover our current research themes
The MA History course has been designed to form the basis for those wishing to progress to PhD level and we offer advice in writing PhD and funding applications should you decide to take this route.
The broad range of skills and knowledge acquired on this course can help to enhance promotion prospects in many professions, most notably teaching, professional research, museums or archives, public policy and project management.
It should also enhance your prospects of employment should you wish to move into such vocations.
You will also leave prepared for a career as a researcher or employment within a broader business environment.
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree, or equivalent, in a related discipline.
students may wish to but are not compelled to purchase supplemental material for research, such as primary texts for their own personal use to allow for annotation and close engagement.
The combined cost of purchasing and/or printing primary texts is approximately £100 per year, though this figure depends on editions purchased and can be reduced significantly by using the library, purchasing second-hand copies accessing e-books and locating articles electronically where possible and appropriate.
HI7001 -
Historical Contexts (Core,30 Credits)
You will learn how to identify the intellectual, social, and cultural contexts that inform advanced research in historical studies.
The module trains you in the skills necessary to compile historiographical material and develop theoretical knowledge about the past, including contextual analysis, source scrutiny, and understanding the ever-changing state of the historical field.
These skills have major implications for your research.
Most importantly, you will explore the methods and critical theories that define the study of your particular field of history.
Thus, your curiosity and inquisitiveness underpin the direction of assessment.
You will need to collect, sift, and analyse the secondary sources that dominate the historical understanding of your research topic.
The module provides an overview of the ways in which historical writing has changed over time, and considers how theory and conceptual thinking has influenced historians.
You will also learn how the historiography has developed in relation to your own research topic.
HI7004 -
War and Peace in Historical Perspective (Core,30 Credits)
What were the social, cultural and political consequences of war?
How have people analysed war, and how have they tried to prevent or end violent conflicts?
The module invites you to explore these questions from a variety of angles, drawing on approaches from political history, cultural history and the history of ideas.
We will address debates on, and experiences of, war and peace in different historical contexts – from the early modern period to the contemporary world.
The module is divided into three parts: ‘Theories and Thinkers’, ‘Peace-Building in Practice’ and ‘Conflicts in Context’.
In the first section, we will analyse influential theories of war and peace.
The second section allows you to explore different attempts to create a more peaceful world, encompassing high-level diplomacy, the work of international organisations such as the League of Nations as well as the campaigns waged by peace activists.
In the final section of the module, we investigate different types of conflict, from civil war to total war.
HI7005 -
History in the Digital Age: Institutions, Issues and Ideas (Core,30 Credits)
In this module, you will learn about the advantages and potential pitfalls of doing History in the digital age.
In doing so, you will develop skills that are essential for postgraduate research.
The module develops your understanding of the relationship between planning research (formulating research questions, considering methodology), doing research (using a range of digital and traditional investigative techniques) and reflecting upon research (data handling and organization, the politics and ethics of research and reflective practice for writing).
The module is designed to prepare you to collect, interpret and disseminate research as a means of supporting all of the modules that you take at Masters level.
Crucially, the module equips you with the conceptual tools needed to approach your extended research project, the dissertation.
Throughout the module, you will consider the advantages and disadvantages of studying History in the 21st century.
You will consider the historical, cultural and political role of archives, libraries and museums, but also the way in which digitized sources, digital research tool and the internet are shaping the nature of research.
You will reflect on how digital methods differ from more traditional forms of historical enquiry, and how you, as a historian, can best use new technologies to develop your work.
HI7010 -
History Dissertation (Core,60 Credits)
The History dissertation represents the culmination of your postgraduate studies.
It will enable you to apply the skills you have acquired in core modules and options to a discrete body of primary sources related to an identifiable area of historical enquiry.
Dissertation topics will be supervised by an expert in the field who will guide you through the various stages of formulating, researching and writing this substantial piece of work
HI7016 -
Britain’s Empires: Imperialism and Resistance since the 16th Century (Core,30 Credits)
In this module you will consider the British imperial experience from colonial expansion in the early modern period, to anti-imperialism and decolonisation in the twentieth century.
You will also explore the British Empire’s relationship with the other modern empires.
The approach is largely thematic.
Introductory weeks will explore the early modern origins of empire and key approaches to the study of empire and colonialism.
In subsequent weeks you will  consider the British Empire’s changing character through an exploration of several broad themes.
In addition to examining the British Empire’s relationship with racial, religious, and cultural difference; you will also consider how peoples and places were settled and subjugated, how the empire was organised politically and economically, and how the empire legitimated itself.
You will also explore how the British Empire had a transformative impact on the movement of people across the world.
Each theme connects to a common set of questions: What motors drove imperial expansion?
How are empires organised politically, and how have empires dealt with ethnic minorities, religious diversity, and cultural difference?
How has power been expressed and how have peoples and places been subjugated?
How did people resist colonial rule?
You will also consider how different empires interacted, whether the British imperial experience was distinct, and whether we can compare the  ways empires have dealt with religion, race and cultural difference.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/history-dtphtr6:
The MA History course will introduce you to a variety of historical topics as well as how to conduct historical research in the digital age.
All modules will be taught by experts in their fields who will draw on their knowledge to enhance your learning experience.
This course incorporates five core modules that combine traditional historical study with training in research methods, providing a flexible approach to study.
We take a close look at the big interpretive questions that are animating the study of history today.
The course's particular strength is that it introduces students to digital history projects and current debates.
These taught modules will give you the skills you need to write your dissertation on a topic of your choice.
Working with a specialist supervisor, you will develop a dissertation topic that reflects your interests and highlights your knowledge gained throughout your degree.
Throughout your degree, you will be supported by your specialist supervisor as well as the staff at Northumbria University's Department of History.
When not teaching, the department is made up of about 30 historians, all of whom are active in publishing journal articles and books.
They specialise in a range of different time periods, geographical regions, as well as incorporating a variety of historical approaches.
Our staff are very approachable and always eager to hear about what our students are working on.
You will have access to our cutting-edge learning facilities throughout your postgraduate studies, and you will be welcome at academic events and seminars hosted by the new Institute of the Humanities.
This includes the fortnightly History Research Seminar, where historians from around the world present their most recent research.
Find out more about studying an MRes at Northumbria here.
Mode of Study 2 years Part Time 4 other options available
Watch Programme Leader Dr Carlos Conde Solares tell us about this Masters in a Minute (or so...)
This two-year course is primarily delivered via a classroom setting, with regular face-to-face supervision.
‘War and Peace in Historical Context’ will develop your understanding of the social, cultural and political consequences of war in rich and varied contexts.
‘British Empire and its Imperial Rivals’ will enhance your understanding of the global history of colonialism, one of history’s most dynamic forces.
‘Historical Contexts’ has a twofold purpose.
Finally, ‘History in the Digital Age: Institutions, Issues and Ideas' an innovative and wide-ranging module, will give you the insights and cutting-edge skills needed to make a success of your dissertation.
Associate Professor in European History
In addition to our established strengths in political, cultural and social history, we have growing strengths in environmental history and the history of material culture.
Employability skills are embedded throughout all aspects of this course and, on completion, you will possess a range of attributes that are highly valued in today’s competitive job market.
These skills include effective workload management, IT, problem solving, communication, teamwork and self-motivation.
students may wish to but are not compelled to purchase supplemental material for research, such as primary texts specific to the project, for their own personal use to allow for annotation and close engagement.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/history-dtdhty6:
If you
have any questions on our flexible courses then you can find out more
information about Distance Learning.
Mode of Study 2 years Part Time (Distance Learning) 4 other options available
This course is primarily delivered online to provide you with the flexibility to study at times convenient to you.
Finally, ‘History in the Digital Age: Institutions, Issues and Ideas, an innovative and wide-ranging module, will give you the insights and cutting-edge skills needed to make a success of your dissertation.
Head of History
Dr Gareth Roddy
Learning materials such as module handbooks, assessment information, lecture presentation slides and reading lists will be available via our innovative e-learning platform, Blackboard.
In addition, you will also be provided access to innovative learning and assessment platform, pebble+, where you can store your written material and key course documents.
Northumbria is in the top ten nationwide for the quality of
its research publications in history where 90% our research publications
are world-leading or internationally excellent.History at Northumbria is ranked 26th in the UK for research power,
according to 2021 Research Excellence Framework.
Click to discover our current departmental research
You will also leave prepared for a career as a researcher or employment within a broader business environment
Students may wish to but are not compelled to purchase supplemental material for research, such as primary texts specfic to the project, for their own personal use to allow for annotation and close engagement.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/history-ma-ft-dl-dtdhtr6:
Offering a flexible approach to study, this course incorporates five core modules which mix conventional historical study with training in research methods and the close consideration of the big interpretative questions animating the study of history today.
A particular strength of the course is the way in which it familiarises students with digital history projects and contemporary debates.
In addition to the taught modules you will also complete a dissertation  under the supervision of one of our specialist historians.
Throughout your studies you will have access to our leading learning facilities and you will be welcome at academic events and seminars hosted by the new Institute of the Humanities.
This includes the fortnightly History Research Seminar, where we welcome historians from throughout the world to introduce us to their latest research.
If you
have any questions about distance learning then make sure to check out all
our available information about Online Degrees .
Mode of Study 1 year Full Time (Distance Learning) 4 other options available
Watch Programme Leader Dr Carlos Conde Solares tell us about this Masters in a Minute (or so...) and then hear about William's experience as a student on the course.
Finally, ‘History in the Digital Age: Institutions, Issues and Ideas’, an innovative and wide-ranging module, will give you the insights and cutting-edge skills needed to make a success of your dissertation.
Students may wish to but are not compelled to purchase supplemental material for research, such as primary texts for their own personal use to allow for annotation and close engagement.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/history-dtfhtr7:
The History MRes course
incorporates taught modules that provide you with the key tools and contexts
for postgraduate work in History.
You will begin the degree course by
considering different kinds of history-writing and the concepts that underpin
them.
You will acquire such knowledge through the ‘Historical Contexts’ module
and you will then be able to deploy your broader awareness of historiography in
writing about your own area of interest.
In doing so, you will lay the
foundations for your dissertation research.
The taught components of the
programme familiarise you with the way in which historical knowledge has been
generated, communicated and preserved.
In doing so, you will also learn about a
variety of digital research projects.
At the same time, the ‘History in the
Digital Age’ module allows you pursue independent line of enquiry, enabling you
to cover themes and time periods that connect with your specific research
interests
Moreover, through our innovative
‘Research Development’ module, you will prepare an interdisciplinary symposium:
this venture will involve your own research yet it is underpinned by working
with MRes students from across the Faculty of Arts, Design and Social Sciences.
Through interdisciplinary cooperation, you will broaden your horizons as a
postgraduate student.
The MRes Dissertation is the
cornerstone and culmination of your degree programme, enabling you to conduct
research under the supervision of leading academics in the Department of
Humanities.
At the beginning of the year, you will be assigned a supervisor,
with whom you will have regular meetings throughout the year to identify a
topic, a set of research questions and the archives and sources needed to
develop an original argument.
You will also join the wider intellectual
community at Northumbria through our Institute of Humanities seminar series.
With a key focus on research, you will acquire generic research skills that are applicable not just to history, but a broad range of other subjects.
The taught aspect of this course will be primarily delivered by group seminars, which will be assessed via a mix of oral and written presentations, critical reviews and portfolios of work.
Your dissertation will form a large part of the assessment process and learning will be delivered by one-to-one tutorials with an expert supervisor.
In addition to the mandatory modules of this course, you will have the option to choose a pathway subject and two discipline-specific modules to allow your learning to be focused around your own areas of interest.
When undertaking your dissertation you will be assigned a dedicated supervisor with specialist knowledge of your chosen subject area.
Our academics are not only teaching their specialist subjects but also writing textbooks and adding new knowledge and perspectives to our understanding of the past.
Boasting doctorates and extensive academic knowledge in their particular specialism, you can rest assured you are learning from the best.
Dr Leona Watson
Delivered by our team of renowned academics, you will be learning from research-active experts who boast specialisms in all aspects of history.
Our staff are actively involved in research, often through funded projects and awards, and participate in a diverse range of research groups within the department.
Several staff members are also engaged in collaborative research projects, many of which are part of national or international research networks.
In-line with the UK Research Council’s training requirements for research students, you will leave equipped with the necessary skills to progress to the next level of your career.
Throughout the duration of your course you will be encouraged to build relationships and experience with cultural partners such as New Writing North, the co-operative movement, Tyne and Wear Archives and Museums, and Handy Hall to further enhance your career edge.
The History MRes course has been designed to form the basis for those wishing to progress to PhD level and we offer advice in writing PhD and funding applications should you decide to take this route.
Northumbria is part of the UK’s only Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) in Heritage, led by Hull and consisting of a consortium of universities in the North of England.
A minimum of a 2:1 honours degree in a relevant discipline.
HI7017 -
MRes History Dissertation (Core,90 Credits)
In this module you will identify a research question and produce a 20,000 word dissertation which represents the culmination of your postgraduate studies on the MRes programme.
As an exercise in research, it is intended to develop further your research skills and your ability to work independently.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/history-dtphtr7:
The part-time History MRes course incorporates taught modules that explore key subjects such as historical contexts and digital history, whilst examining the critical and theoretical practices that are fundamental to research.
In addition to core modules, you are able to tailor your learning to your own areas of interest and career aspirations.
To demonstrate your understanding and skills you will undertake an in-depth dissertation project under the guidance of our teaching team.
You will also have the unique opportunity to organise your own one-day research conference, offering you and an opportunity to share your work with staff and students within a supportive environment.
Northumbria University’s Humanities department boasts strong links with a range of cultural partners and we aim to provide you with direct industry exposure and live project opportunities throughout the duration of your course.
You will learn in state-of-the-art facilities, including our new Institute for the Humanities.
Student Placements

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/humanities-foundation-year-uusfyh1:
The Humanities Foundation degree is a stepping stone to an undergraduate degree.
You will explore a range of topics taken from across the humanities subject areas such as history, literature, language and linguistics, creative writing, and American studies.
You will be encouraged to embrace your curiosity and creativity, as well as learning how to study at university level.
You will learn how to research, evaluate sources, construct a thorough argument, and present your findings.
You will graduate with the analytical, philosophical and practical skills you need to undertake undergraduate study and with a wider understanding of the role of humanities in the modern world.
On successful completion of the foundation year you will qualify to join any of the following degrees:
UCAS Code L8L9
Immersed in a stimulating and challenging learning environment, you will explore a wide range of key areas, including history, literature, film, philosophy, and politics, as well as the digital humanities.
Guest speakers from across the humanities will put what you have learnt into context and give you a real world perspective.
Assessment will take the form of essays, reviews, creative reflections, presentations, research portfolios and digital projects.
The Foundation degree is a dynamic, research-rich programme.
You will learn from a team of world-leading scholars from across the humanities spectrum.
Our lecturers are dedicated and passionate about their subject areas and you will benefit from their extensive knowledge.
Teaching encompasses your lecturer’s own practice as well as current research, which means you will learn from those at the cutting-edge of the subject.
Your learning environment is both colourful and dynamic.
You will be encouraged by lecturers and peers to develop your intellectual curiosity, to immerse yourself in your studies and to gain the skills needed to take you through to undergraduate study or into employment.
You will learn in a department that is both contemporary and innovative.
We embrace new technology and you will be supported in your learning through Technology Enhanced Learning (TEL) activities.
This includes use of the electronic learning portal (Blackboard) that provides remote access to course materials, electronic submission and feedback on your assessments and online reading lists.
The Humanities team at Northumbria are all actively engaged in research and research-rich learning is embedded into the core of the Foundation programme.
Many staff are well-known figures in their own research fields and the department benefits from a significant number of staff at professorial level.
As a humanities student you will develop your own knowledge and understanding of core concepts and theories, current practice and procedures.
You will also learn how to conduct your own research, gather reliable and justifiable information, construct rigorous arguments, and present your findings.
At Northumbria, both students and staff have the opportunity to take part in extraordinary research projects.
History Research
On completion of the Foundation degree you will have developed a wider understanding of the humanities and developed the knowledge and skills necessary for you to progress onto your chosen undergraduate degree, including History, Literature, Language and Linguistics, Creative Writing, and American Studies, depending on your interests and desired career path.
Click the images below to find out more about the subjects within our Humanities department.
History & American Studies
History
Language
Literature

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/industrial-design-newcastle-mamsc-dtfinn6:
The Industrial Design course at Northumbria
University is highly specialised in combining the creative elements of
technology, engineering, creative expression, and business entrepreneurship
into industrial design.
It is designed to encourage a deep understanding of how
our sustainable development challenges can be addressed by applying
design-for-people-and-planet theory and methodologies to smart products and
services supported by emerging technologies, with particular emphasis on AI.
On our Masters course, you will learn to create
better products, services, and
business models that are needed to meet changing priorities in society, and you
will be assessed by your coursework for all modules.
Our course features two focused pathways:
- MA Industrial Design – Designing services
and promoting behaviour change or - MSc Industrial Design – Generative AI design and smart
products.
Service Design - better services and experiences are key to a better future.This module focuses on product development, our industrial design processes and design thinking, as these skills are now just as sought-after in reshaping services and experiences.
It covers the key principles and co-design methods, which are increasingly applied to the domain of health and wellbeing, and product lifecycle services.
Design for Behaviour Change - design changes behaviour.
Whether through an intuitive user interface, persuasive communications or compelling product package, design can direct user action.
In this module, you will explore how you can deliberately guide positive, ethical behaviour change by understanding desires and motivations, or shaping capabilities, opportunities, and perceptions.
You will draw on underlying psychological principles such as social proof, scarcity, or reciprocity to help realise positive outcomes.
Industrial Design major project dissertation MA/MSc - now is your chance to design the future.
This major design project/thesis module allows you to focus on designing products or services or, integrated product-service systems for connected futures, with reflection on and synthesis of previous learnt product and service systems design principles, approaches and practices.
This MA project will focus on service design.
Experimental Generative Design - AI is driving a design revolution.
The AI revolution is likely to change not just the way we work but perhaps also whether we can work at all.
This module will introduce you to designing at a higher level with a cross section of industry leading artificial intelligence tools which help to boost design experimentation, iteration and quality of final outcomes.
You will gain an understanding and practical application of emerging generative AI and related design tools and models in relation to human-centred design principles.
Smart Product Design and Practice - smart products are the future.
Smart product design involves creating products that leverage digital technology such as AI and Digital twins, connectivity, and intelligent features to enhance functionality, user experience, and overall value.
This module will first introduce smart product design principles, methodologies and processes across the product (ordinary) lifecycle, and then discuss how these can be applied to build smart connected products/devices.
This major design project/thesis module allows you to focus on designing products or services or integrated product-service systems for connected futures, with reflection on and synthesis of previous learnt product and service systems design principles, approaches and practices.
This MSc project will focus on product design.
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree in design, Business, Engineering and computing or a related discipline.
Applicants with appropriate work experience and/or a relevant professional qualification will be considered
Additional Requirements
All students need to have some design communication skills to start the course.
These skills include freehand sketching, digital sketching, 3D CAD modelling and rendering, 2D/3D mark-ups, or design videos.
Therefore, students need to submit a creative portfolio evidencing the above skills.
If you have studied a non - UK qualification, you can see how your qualifications compare to the standard entry criteria, by selecting the country that you received the qualification in, from our country pages.
DE7037 -
Design Futures with Emerging Technologies (Core,20 Credits)
This module will give you what you need to know to get to grips with design for the future.
This will build on design thinking and how we can use design theory, methods, and practices to creatively shape the products, processes, and practices of tomorrow.
You will bring together design processes, methods and practices to tackle real world challenges following the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), all in the context of shaping a positive future for people, place, and planet.
This will culminate into a team project which may be a national or international design competition.
You will come away with skills in: Design methods and emerging technologies to realise innovative, future design solutions Design thinking and creative design theory to develop and work with future design processes Design methods for creativity and research to let you shape and thrive in future design practice To support this, you will be taught a range of processes, methods, and reflective practices all informed by emerging technologies (such as AI), drawing on contemporary research in how design can contribute to a positive future.
Further, you will explore how this knowledge can be adapted and applied effectively in contexts ranging from personal creativity to social missions, as well as more classic large- and small-scale business endeavours.
DE7038 -
Research Through Design Practice (Studio) (Core,20 Credits)
In this studio-based practice module, you will explore the research-through-design approach to conducting design-based research, integrating design practice as a means of generating new knowledge, insights, or solutions.
You will be introduced to various roles and frameworks for research, such as research on, through, and for design.
Additionally, you will learn to address the challenges and conflicts that arise between smart products and AI in the design process, with a focus on aligning your work with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in both current and future projects.
The purpose of this module is to enable you to apply research-through-design practices to establish a clear direction for your Master's study by: 1.
Developing a Personal Development Plan (PDP) at the start of the module.
This plan will help you define your learning needs and professional goals as part of a strategy to implement throughout the programme.
The PDP will be reviewed and updated, if necessary, at key stages of your learning journey.
Undertaking a self-directed industrial design project, which will be developed over the course of the module.
This project will allow you to achieve specific aims outlined in your PDP.
Your PDP, while remaining flexible, will outline your aims and serve as the foundation for your studies throughout the programme.
You will also develop the ability to articulate the value of your design interventions within the context of your future professional role.
DE7039 -
Sustainable and Regenerative Design (Core,20 Credits)
Building on the foundation introduced in the Design Futures with Emerging Technologies module (DE7037), this module will equip you with the knowledge, skills, and mindset to address human interactions within complex systems while considering environmental impacts.
You will explore sustainable and regenerative design solutions using a holistic, whole-systems approach that moves beyond sustainability, setting a new standard for ecological performance.
Your designs will not only minimize harm but actively work to regenerate the natural environment and enhance human well-being, reflecting a holistic worldview.
Whether applied to architecture, product design, fashion, or other fields, regenerative design offers innovative solutions that are both functional and beneficial to the environment and society.
This module will incorporate guest lectures from academia and industry to introduce key principles and aspects of sustainable and regenerative design, including: Product and service ecosystem thinking and lifecycle design principles Circular economy concept Environmental and ethical considerations in product design processes Sustainable and regenerative design principles and methods Resilience and adaptability in design.
You will work on a self-proposed project to practice and demonstrate the design awareness of UN sustainable development Goals (SDGs) and challenges.
You will be learning how to respond to the SDGs through sustainable and regenerative design via a project report.
DE7040 -
Design Innovation and Management (Studio) (Core,20 Credits)
This module will enable you to see yourself and your own design expertise in the context of business and society.
Through case-study examples, you will understand the different roles for design within systems of both social and commercial value creation.
Through a set team project brief, you will learn to frame and pitch new value propositions (which could be a mix of products, services, systems and experiences) underpinned by a plausible commercial case, to engage relevant stakeholders.
This will usually run as a live project with an external partner and forms the core of this module.
You will be introduced to different forms of enterprises’ business models and strategies for design innovation and management as well as considering how an organisation’s values can be aligned with its purpose.
You will consider examples of high-growth businesses to understand what helped them stand apart from their competitors as well as how entrepreneurial approaches such as effectuation can disrupt established markets.
You will understand when and how to create a compelling ‘investable’ proposition, centred on design expertise, by: Being able to interpret the strategic context – (e.g.
in terms of the competitive environment).
Creatively exploring value streams and business models – (e.g.
to optimise the opportunity and anticipate risks when introducing something new).
Understanding how to demarcate new propositions using a blend of pace, brand, and/or intellectual property.
Building credible evidence and narrative to support the value of the new proposition.
DE7041 -
Service Design (Optional,20 Credits)
Having the ability to research, explore, and discern what really matters to individuals is a fundamental skill in Industrial Design.
This people-oriented approach serves as the foundation for crafting products that work beautifully and are loved-through-time.
This person-centred mindset and the same iterative design capabilities of ideation, prototyping, testing and improving ideas are just as sought-after in contemporary service-development teams.
Throughout this module, you will harness your system-thinking ability to shape services and experiences in parallel to product innovation.
Our project examples and briefs will focus on service design approaches and co-design methods, which are increasingly applied to the domain of health and wellbeing, and product lifecycle services.
Applying a range of Service Design methods, as well as stakeholder analysis, will develop your strategic thinking skills alongside your social and commercial acumen.
Through a project-based approach, you will realise your ideas as mock-ups and prototypes, both in print and digital formats, illustrating a series of touchpoints that service-users may encounter.
These elements of the service will be positioned within an overarching service blueprint, summarising the systems and resources needed to deliver the service the way you have designed it.
The significance of qualitative research data as a catalyst for design methodologies will become evident.
Equipped with these skills, you will approach your projects with a design-with, rather than design-for, ethos, engaging stakeholders and end-users in the co-creation process.
This philosophy of co-designing will deepen your commitment to the ethical and responsible practices that can shape better services.
DE7042 -
Design for Behaviour Change (Optional,20 Credits)
This module will introduce you to designing for behaviour change supported by relevant behavioural theory at the individual and social scale.
You will explore how we might ethically shape a better future for individuals and society by effecting positive changes in behaviour.
You will learn how to bring together human-centred design processes with insights from sociology and/or psychology to better tackle real world challenges through design.
In particular, you will develop your skills in: Understanding human behaviour in relation to design, from the individual scale to complex social systems Design for behaviour change processes, relevant behavioural theory, methods, and evaluation approaches suitable for both business and non-commercial contexts, including: Behavioural design and behavioural science principles and theories How to identify relevant behaviours for change and positive target behaviours to be created How different approaches, such as feedback and reinforcement, can positively help change behaviour How these can be integrated with user-centred, user interface, and interaction design To support this, you will be taught a range of processes, methods, and practices drawing on contemporary research on design for behaviour change.
Further, we will explore how this knowledge can be adapted and applied effectively in light of ethical and social issues around behaviour change, to improve health, wellbeing, and generally help realize a positive future and sustainable development goals (SDGs).
DE7043 -
Experimental Generative Design (Optional,20 Credits)
By exploring methods for understanding user needs, behaviours, and preferences (through techniques such as user research, personas, and empathy mapping) you will also learn how new tools can be critically incorporated into design practice based on your capabilities and willingness to integrate generative AI in your design practice.
You will develop an understanding of both AI’s increasing potential and productivity but also its current limitations in terms of bias and error.
Finally, you will learn to design with generative AI critically in order to mitigate against risks around privacy, transparency, accountability, unethical practices and the responsible use of AI in design projects.
The module will advance your skills: Introducing design tools and software platforms that incorporate AI and emerging AI tools into the design workflow.
Using generative AI to produce creative outputs through design communication and development.
Critical AI output evaluation and incremental design improvement.
Employing AI as a speculative tool at different stages of the design process.
Discussing how AI can be leveraged to enhance user experiences and address user needs more effectively.
Through this module, you will develop the knowledge, skills, and mindset needed to thrive as designers in an increasingly AI-driven and technologically advanced world.
DE7044 -
Smart Product Design and Practice (Studio) (Optional,20 Credits)
A smart product is an item or device that incorporates advanced technologies such as sensors, connectivity, and AI to enhance its functionality, automate tasks, gather and analyse data, and provide new features or services to users.
The smartness of a product can be measured across several dimensions including its connectivity, sensing, processing power, automation, artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML), User interface and experience, data privacy and security, energy efficiency and interoperability.
In this studio-based practice module, you will learn: Integrated product and service system design across product lifecycle.
The key features of smart products, general smart product design principles, processes and methods.
Building connected devices via Open Hardware/IoT building such as ESP32 Arduino connected chip.
You will conduct self-motivated/chosen smart product design project.
The purpose of this module is to allow you to understand product-service system design along product lifecycle for sustainability and how to design connected products to make them smart along their product lifecycle.
To practice your chosen smart product design project, you will explore: Product functionality and connectivity Data collection and analytics Security and privacy Lifecycle management Platform technology such as Digital Twin and data-driven design methods Open Hardware/IoT building with ESP32 Arduino connected chip Your smart product design project can be well connected back to your PDP developed in DE7038 module, AI as design materials in DE7043 and design project proposal developed in the Module DE7039 and it can also be further researched and developed into your MSc major product design project/thesis module DE7061.
DE7045 -
Major Service Design Project &Thesis (Optional,60 Credits)
This module provides the platform from which you will engage with in-depth reflection, analysis and synthesis based upon your major service design project/thesis.
You will be expected to take an increasingly autonomous approach to your studies at this stage in developing, embedding and clarifying personally developed research themes theories and experiences that will be realised through either: OPTION 1 A practical major service design project supported by a 5000-6000 word thesis that represents the culmination and consolidation of your work in the theoretical area of study whose outcomes will demonstrate advanced scholarship in the communication of a personally investigated topic that reaches an analytical conclusion.
It is expected that outcomes will be of an original and innovative nature ensuring findings are at the forefront of the discipline and future zeitgeist.
The outcomes may prove a concept of innovative services or be a finished designed artefact (service buleprints).
OR OPTION 2 A research paper of 5000-6000 words representing your research through design methods, processes, results from your exploration of new and innovative services.
The targeting dissemination channels include established conferences as the annual Service Design Network’s the Service Design Global Conference.
This more research focused option may lead to a further PhD or DDes study.
DE7061 -
Major Product Design Project &Thesis (Optional,60 Credits)
This module provides the platform from which you will engage with in-depth reflection, analysis and synthesis based upon your major product design project/thesis.
You will be expected to take an increasingly autonomous approach to your studies at this stage in developing, embedding and clarifying personally developed research themes theories and experiences that will be realised through either: OPTION 1 A practical major product design project supported by a 5000-6000 word report that represents the culmination and consolidation of your work in the theoretical area of study whose outcomes will demonstrate advanced scholarship in the communication of a personally investigated topic that reaches an analytical conclusion.
The outcomes may prove a concept of innovative products or be a finished designed artefact (product prototypes).
OR OPTION 2 A research paper of 5000-6000 words representing your research through design methods, processes, results from your exploration of new and innovative products.
The targeting dissemination channels include established conferences as the annual ACM Designing Interactive Systems conference.
Top Department: Design at Northumbria is ranked 4th in the UK (Daily Mail University Guide, 2025).
Art & Design at Northumbria is ranked top 15 in the UK (Times Good University Guide, 2025)
This Industrial Design Masters is an innovative approach to taught postgraduate study, which develops your creative thinking and professional practice with emerging technology to support your personal career aspirations.
We passionately believe that  the breadth of knowledge and experience that the cohort brings from a wide range of specialisms, generates invaluable insights, skills, and fresh perspectives that benefits our learning community and contributes to our mutually designed futures, caring for the individual, society and planet, underpinned by Industry 5.0.
Our graduates can emerge with a broadened and enhanced research and design skillset, equipping them not only as accomplished practitioners but also as visionary design thinkers.
This core knowledge can provide the base for a thriving creative career, positioning them to confidently lead design teams and manage innovative projects.
On graduation, you will be ready for employment, entrepreneurship or doctoral research within areas such as, service design and innovation, product design and innovation, manufacturing, health and welling, industry innovation and consultancy.
Our Masters students are often heard talking about the creative freedom within the design faculty, and how they are always encouraged to run with their ideas, no matter how creative they might be.
Your portfolio work will be a perfect place to encapsulate that and represent some of the exciting, unusual, and impactful projects that you have been working on over the past year.
See some of our projects and successes below.
Lifetime Brands brings student design concept to life.
National award wins for graduate designers.
Book exploring dyslexia wins design award.
Gen Z fondness for moments of self-care inspires winning fashion collection.
You will be taught by a wide range of international leading
design practitioners, researchers and educators.
Their expertise includes
product design and innovation, service design, design for behaviour change,
creative computing and AI, designing thinking and innovation, research through
design, sustainable design, engineering design and manufacturing, design for
healthcare and wellbeing, and smart design.
Sheng-feng Qin
Matteo Conti
Joyce Yee
Matthew Lievesley
Mark Blythe
Philip Cash
Alana James
As an MA/ MSc Industrial Design student, you will have shared use of a dedicated design studio.
The Masters studio includes state-of-the art computers and industry standard software.
You will also have access to a range of workshops including model-making, photography studio, virtual reality suite and prototyping lab, Bio Design Lab, Creative Technology Hub for creative technology, physical computing, 3d printing, electronics, creative coding and virtual reality.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/msc-information-security-management-london-part-time-dtpise6:
Whether you are looking for a full-time or part-time programme, choose from our range of Business, Computing, Cyber, Project Management and Technology focused programmes at our London Campus.
Our Pre-Sessional programmes are designed to build your English language abilities ready for undergraduate or postgraduate study.
Start dates: Jan, Mar, Jun, Jul, Sep, Nov
If you hold a NQF Level 5 qualification or similar, our top-up degrees give you the opportunity to gain a full honours degree in one year.
Start dates: Sep
Start dates: Jan, May, Sep
Start dates: Jan, Sep
We offer various postgraduate degree programmes in Cyber, Technology, Project Management, Business and Computing with part-time options for working professionals and full-time options for international students.
Start dates: Jan, Oct
Start dates: Jan, Apr, Jul, Oct
“After completing my course, I will aim to put what I have learned into practice and be a successful manager”
Kikelomo Omowunmi MSc Business with International Management
At Northumbria University, we embrace tomorrow.
We pursue new thinking, forge new partnerships, create and exchange new knowledge, and find new solutions.
Confident and creative in everything we do, we offer leadership and direction in this fast-changing world.
With its modern and professional study facilities, our London Campus is conveniently located near Liverpool Street station, where the financial district meets the home of the tech start-up.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-interior-architecture-extended-degree-uusxah1:
Interior architecture is a field that focuses on the design and the spatial organisation of interior spaces within buildings.
It goes beyond just decoration and involves the planning and execution of interior layouts, taking into consideration functionality, aesthetics, and the overall user experience.
Our design-led, studio based Interior Architecture course, is a member of Interior Educators, the National Learned Society for the subject, and provides you with the practical skills and specialist knowledge to work as an interior architectural specialist.
Through live and directed design projects, you will develop creative, intelligent and meaningful design proposals for existing buildings through investigation of the site.
You will learn to control the relationship between the existing context and your proposed interior adaptation, supported by studies in design, communication, history and theory, construction technology, environment and management.
You will take part in site visits within live projects and a European study trip to help contextualise and expand your learning.
Before your final year, you can choose the option of an additional study abroad year, or complete the course as originally intended; all of which are designed to enrich your experience as a subject specialist and as a global citizen.
You will develop a creative portfolio of directed and self-directed design project work which will allow you to fully explore your interests within interior architecture and building adaptation, while fully expressing your ability as a designer and a future professional.
You will showcase your final project work at an exhibition here in Newcastle and as part of Interior Educators in London, to maximize your reach to industry.
Successful graduates can progress onto our one semester Postgraduate Certificate in Interior Architecture course, which is professionally accredited and allows you to satisfy the ARB Part I criteria, when combined with undergraduate Interior Architecture study and Northumbria.
This course allows our graduates to achieve Part I status, as specialists in building adaptation and creative reuse.
See other similar courses you may be interested in: BA (Hons) Interior Design , Architecture BA (Hons) .
UCAS Code Z060
Our research-informed teaching methods, design studio culture and student-centred learning and support have led to unmatched levels of student satisfaction and employability.
We use live projects and regional sites to enrich your learning as you develop your specific and transferable skills and knowledge towards employability as we work together as co-creators of knowledge.
We have regional partnerships with national bodies, such as the National Trust, that allow us to authenticate your learning through partnership projects on the creative reuse of historic structures.
Your learning will be centred on project work, all within our dedicated studio facilities.
Studio space is provided for each student, within a large environment that is shared with students from all year groups to ensure you learn as much from each other as you do from the highly experienced staff.
Our CAD resources, model-making workshops and rapid prototyping facilities are state-of-the-art, allowing you to maximize your potential and explore your design ideas in full.
The skills you will develop through this course embed the key transferrable skills of autonomous learning, analytical methods, critical curiosity, social responsibility and communications skills into the curriculum.
Take a look at some examples of our Student projects.
Macey Diaz
Sandbox Creative Hub
Daniel Bell
Tales on Tap
Liberty Mitchell
Discover Brinkburn
Matthew Allan
Brinkburn Ecology Centre & Meadery
An acclaimed academic team will teach you, comprising of architects, designers and subject specialists who have created award-winning projects nationally and internationally, as well as staff who have published research around the world.
This unique team will provide you with authentic, exemplary and supportive guidance to help you shape your personal identity, your specialist interior architecture knowledge and for a career path within the subject, the wider architecture and design professions and beyond.
You will be assessed through regular feedback within each module, to provide ongoing constructive guidance and confirmation of your learning; all within dedicated design studios.
Design tutorials will help you discuss, develop and improve your ideas and assessment for learning will help you progress and achieve.
Our academic staff work closely with business and industry and have experience in professional practice.
We help you benefit from new skills, knowledge and approaches.
Andrea Couture
Paul Ring
Tara Hipwood
Whatever your aspirations in interior architecture, you will find the latest technologies to support you in our dedicated laboratories and studios.
You will have full use of the design studio, specialist model making, rapid prototyping and IT workshops and professional plotting services to help you synthesise and apply your learning through increasingly complex design projects.
This supports the accumulation and curation of a personalised portfolio relevant to your future professional career.
Through our Electronic Learning Platform (eLP) you will have access to project and assignment information and learning materials for the course and for each module of study.
The course emphasises self-directed learning, critical thinking, and independent research to support your academic and personal development, set within a supportive and academically rigorous learning studio culture.
Whatever your aspirations in Interior Architecture, you'll find the latest technologies to support you in our dedicated laboratories and studios.
Research -rich methods, particularly in the format of project based learning, are embedded within the learning, teaching and assessment strategy of Interior Architecture.
The development of skills of critical curiosity, informed judgement and the evaluation of alternative proposals all have professional relevance to the discipline, and these are embedded within your progressive academic journey.
Our specialist academic team has wide ranging research interests within the subject, including creative reuse, architectural intervention, design narrative and context, art and design practice and architecture and design.
With the opportunity to exhibit your portfolio to industry in Newcastle and London, this course is a springboard to a bright future in interior architecture.
In addition to secured positions in a range of leading architecture and design practices, our graduates are equipped to work within the broader creative fields, including exhibition and set design, retail design, design journalism, property development, building conservation and visualization.
Visit an Open Day to get an insight into what it's like to study Interior Architecture.
KA4018 -
Interior Architecture Project 1.2 (Core,40 Credits)
Advancing your understanding of the principles, practices and theoretical motivations of the design process forms the core learning activity within this module.
You will combine your developing appreciation and interpretation of concepts and ideas with an understanding of the needs of users and individuals within a designed environment and how physical context, narrative and spatial awareness inform ideas with set project briefs.
Your will learn to develop design solutions that respond to a given set of interior conditions relating to space, place, form, language and materiality.
KA5015 -
Interior Architecture Project 2.1 (Core,40 Credits)
Synthesising the principles, practices and theoretical motivations of the architectural design process within interior architecture forms the core learning journey of this module.
Combining an independent appreciation and interpretation of conceptual notions with an advanced understanding of physical context, narrative and spatial awareness within an existing built environment, your set project briefs will provoke responses to specific existing spatial conditions and typologies relating to place, form, architectural language, human-scale material and construction within the remodelling of existing space.
You will enrich existing 2D and 3D communication skills to realise and represent design propositions within the context of building intervention and alteration, exploring methods of manual, digital and mixed media representation.
Working independently and collectively, you will develop critical learning skills and an evaluative attitude to the iterative process of design.
KA5016 -
Interior Architecture Project 2.2 (Core,40 Credits)
Synthesising the principles, practices and design motivations of Interior Architecture forms the core learning journey of this module.
Combining your advancing appreciation and interpretation of context, narrative and spatial awareness with an appreciation of the management of design proposals will expand your personal attitude towards existing space, building adaption proposals and creative re-use.; project briefs will provoke responses to specific architectural conditions and typologies relating to place, form, language, material and construction.
Working independently and collectively, you will advance your critical learning skills and your reflective attitude to the iterative process of interior architecture and creative reuse.
KA5017 -
Interior Architecture Theory 2 (Core,20 Credits)
An advanced appreciation of historical, theoretical, societal and technological paradigms governing Interior Architecture forms the core learning journey of this module.
Through a thematic exposure to seminal historic and contemporary spaces and ideas, you will develop your existing knowledge to further reveal your understanding of key theoretical positions and of your advanced thinking.
Presented as a theoretically connected continuum of thought spanning relevant epochs, the modules content will thematically align to your wider creative learning on the programme and present you with an opportunity to apply advanced theoretic thinking to your design practice.
You will advance your critical learning skills and your reflective attitude to advanced theories of interior architecture that will help you to contextualise and appraise your own design work.
KA5022 -
Interior Architecture Technology 2 (Core,20 Credits)
You will increase your awareness of the social, environmental, ethical and regulatory principles and requirements of technologies within design practice and how they are applied to your building adaptation and creative reuse design projects.
You will develop a critical consideration of environmental design in relation to human well-being, sustainable environments and of the broader professional, social, ecological and ethical factors informing design practice.
The modules content will encourage your critical thinking and will supporting you in your identification, appraisal and selection of emergent themes relating to architectural design and practice.
Analytical studies of appropriate precedents, technologies and applications will advance your contextualised knowledge and enable you to apply this knowledge to your own design process.
A thematic lecture programme will explore key technologies, typologies and principles and is supporting by seminars to provide you with the opportunities to directly apply this knowledge to studio-based project work.
Your communications and research skills will be advanced in order to successfully articulate and argue for the technological and environmental choices you will make within your design projects.
You will be encouraged in individual and group work to carry out independent learning in order to develop a personal knowledge base applicable to both academic and future professional practice.
KA6036 -
Interior Architecture Project 3.1 (Core,40 Credits)
This module provides you with a platform for your individual analysis and interpretation of the requirements and objectives for complex design proposals within a given context.
You will research relevant paradigms within an individual framework of investigation and you will appraise extant histories, narratives, spatial and environmental conditions and atmosphere within a given site to evaluate their impact on and contribution towards an individual proposal for re-use and adaptation.
You will synthesise your creative knowledge, practice and theoretical motivation within interior architecture and building adaptations to self-direct and express your response to complex, site defined briefs.
Project briefs will provoke responses to specific interior architectural conditions and typologies relating to place, form, interior architectural language, material, construction and, sustainability alongside a written and illustrated study of and the professional context within which your design ideas are framed.
You will articulate fluent 2D and 3D communication skills to realise and represent order, integrative detailing and poetic assemblage within your interior architectural propositions.
KA6038 -
Interior Architecture Project 3.2 (Core,40 Credits)
Within this module you will synthesise your creative knowledge of interior architecture and building adaptation within a self-directed and expressive responses to a complex, site defined brief.
You will realise a comprehensive design proposition that will develop from your individual response to context conditions, typological studies and end user needs that draws upon your research enquiry into narrative, volume, atmosphere and form.
Your self-directed approach will develop rigorous responses to building adaptation with cognisance of their impact upon and contribution to the genius of place within a holistic body of work, from inception to detail and resolution.
You will design with ownership of the poetic assemblage of your scheme, whilst exploring individual and imaginative methods of ideas development, communication and resolution.
You will exhibit your design portfolio and personal development to a professional standard to express your knowledge and understanding to a wider audience.
In addition, you will critically synthesise the broader issues of interior architectural practice, management and sustainability.
Working independently and collectively, you will articulate your control of critical learning skills and a reflective attitude to the iterative process of interior architectural design.
KA6039 -
Interior Architecture Theory 3 (Core,20 Credits)
A critical appreciation and evaluation of advanced theoretical paradigms that govern the making of interior environments forms the core learning journey of this module.
The thematic exposure to theoretic positions and of seminal interiors and building adaptations will develop your critical knowledge to further reveal key theoretical positions and thinking.
Presented as a theoretically connected continuum of thought on the interior, the lecture content will thematically align to your wider creative learning journey through an examination of the pluralist and heterogeneous landscape of influences on the interior space.
Your e xisting critical learning skills will be honed to critique established theories of interior architecture and creative reuse towards an individually expressed position.
KA6043 -
Interior Architecture Technology 3 (Core,20 Credits)
Within this module you will advance your comprehension, and justification through critical application, of the relationship between constructional and environmental design existent within the given context and that of the inferred interior intervention.
Using your own design project work as a point of reference, you will explore the implications of constructional and environmental systems design upon your proposal; you will investigate the impact of sustainable design upon space, fabric and constructional technology; and demonstrate the integration of environmental systems within your design.
The module provides you with opportunities to develop individual attitudes and critical choices towards fit out, material assemblage and integration of technologies, in relation to a studio-based design project.
With cognisance of the social, ethical and environmental responsibilities of the interior architecture profession, you will critically justify, through imaginative synthesis, constructional systems and environmental design, and concerns of energy consumption and ecological impacts of adopted technologies.
You will critically justify the material, spatial, and technological choices made in your studio design project; and demonstrate the integration of environmental systems in retrofit, while also meeting the aesthetic and functional demands of your studio project.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-interior-architecture-uusiah1:
UCAS Code W251
120 UCAS Tariff points
Specialist equipment/materials - drafting and modelling equipment - approximate cost £200:
Optional specialist equipment/materials - modelling materials - approximate cost £200:
Print costs - reports, A0 posters, A3 weekly outputs - approximate cost £150:
Optional fieldtrip - flight and subsistence costs - approximate cost £400:
Final projects - models - £50.
Optional Graduate degree show (London based exhibition) - approximate cost £400
-----------------------------
Specialist equipment/materials/printing -  IA, approximate cost £400
OPTIONAL IA, approximate cost £1400
Total required + optional, approximate cost £1400

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/interior-architecture-pg-cert-dtfiah6:
Within this postgraduate Interior Architecture course, you will work in a critical and self-directed manner, developing personal and professional attitudes towards architecture and creative reuse.
You will develop ownership of your investigations in design, theory, construction technology, environment, management and communication, benefiting from our established design studio culture and our student-centred approach to learning.
You will work as part of a postgraduate community, sharing knowledge, techniques and replicating the way you work in architectural practice.
Postgraduate  Architecture students scored 100% satisfaction in every area of teaching on their course, as well as 100% satisfaction in Northumbria’s library resources being good enough for their needs.
- 2015 National Student Survey
This innovative postgraduate course is unique in the country in that it allows Northumbria BA(Hons) Interior Architecture graduates, with a good degree to successfully attain exemption from ARB Part 1 of the Professional Examinations within the context of your existing specialist interior-based study combined with specific urban and architectural enquiry.
Mode of Study 1 Semester (January to June)
The skills you will develop through this course reflect and support the attributes expected of a graduate, and are transferrable to a wide selection of alternative professional and academic pathways.
In this respect, the programme embeds the key transferrable skills of autonomous learning, analytical methods, critical curiosity, social responsibility and communications skills into the curriculum.
You will be assessed both formatively and summatively within each module, and provided with ongoing constructive guidance and confirmation of your learning.
George Cox
Alphabetti theatre
Kate Graham
The Theatre of Well-being
Lauren Cunnigham
A PUBLIC LIVING ROOM
William Grieve
THE ALPHABETTI THEATRE
This unique team will provide you with authentic, exemplary and supportive guidance to help you shape your personal identity and career path within the subject, the wider architecture and design professions and beyond.
Our research-informed teaching methods, studio culture and student-centred learning and support have led to unmatched levels of student satisfaction and employability.
We use regional sites and relevant international field study visits to enrich your learning as you develop your specific and transferable skills and knowledge towards employability.
You will have access to professional plotting services to help you synthesise and apply your learning, supporting the creation of a personalised portfolio relevant to your future professional career and realisation through sophisticated 2D and 3D representation.
Through our Electronic Learning Platform (eLP) you will have access to project and assignment information and learning materials for each module of study.
The course emphasises self-directed learning, critical thinking, and independent research to support your academic and personal development, set within a supportive yet academically rigorous learning studio culture.
Read more about our dedicated Architecture facilities
360 Tour
View 360 degree images and take a virtual tour of our facilities
You will develop skills in critical curiosity, informed judgement and the evaluation of alternative proposals, and you will learn to apply self-selected lines of inquiry and critical justification to your designs.
Your research skills and the articulation of opinion will be assessed through your individual written reports.
Our assessment methods encourage critical approaches to learning, including the use of focused research inquiries to underpin design processes and choices.
Discover our current departmental research themes
Interior Architecture prepares you with the contemporary knowledge and skills applicable to the industry, underpinned by regular contributions from practitioners and guests and authentic learning experiences.
It offers a balanced education on the principles and practice of architectural design that is underpinned by cultural and historical context, technological and environmental knowledge, and management processes.
You will work within real world scenarios to enhance your employability, especially with respect to effective communication.
Working within industry standards, producing reports that demonstrate the authority of your written, drawn and analytical abilities, will prepare you for your onward career.
You will leave us as an industry-ready graduate.
We will equip you with a wide variety of skills in design, visualisation, communications, practice management and research.
Our graduates have secured positions in a range of leading architecture and design practices, both regionally and nationally, as well as further study internationally.
Our graduates are equipped to work within a range of creative fields, including architecture, interiors, exhibition design, set design, and visualisation as well as developing associated careers in design journalism, property development, project management and building conservation.
A minimum of a 2:2 honours degree in BA (Hons) Interior Architecture at Northumbria University, including a pass in all level 5 and 6 modules (in compliance with ARB regulations), and a minimum of three months continuous associated professional practice.
Specialist equipment/materials - drafting and modelling equipment - approximate cost £200: Optional specialist equipment/materials - modelling materials - approximate cost £200: Print costs - reports, A0 posters, A3 weekly outputs - approximate cost £150: Final projects - models - £50.
KA7033 -
Design Rationale (Core,30 Credits)
This module of study gives you the opportunity to design an integrated, site specific architectural solution within an urban setting.
You will articulate the intent and rationale within a produced major integrated architectural design project through a critical appraisal of associated contexts; urban, theory, social, technology, environment, management, regulation and legislation.
You studies will include … Site analysis & context studies (social; political; economic; cultural; legal) Complex buildings Structural appreciation & design systems Standardisation & bespoke assembly Advanced structures & envelopes Design & construction integration - structure, envelope, space, environmental control.
Environmental technologies & control Materials & resources RIBA Plan of Works Feasibility Statutory & legal requirements Communication & presentation
KA7034 -
Integrated Architecture Project (Core,30 Credits)
Within this module you will produce an architectural response to a set context that demonstrates a high level of skill and confidence in intuitive, creative and innovative design.
You will have opportunity to demonstrate an integrated response to a design problem, encompassing design and management, technology, environment and spatial programme via an authentic design scenario within a complex urban setting.
You will synthesis your creative knowledge to explore the architectural condition and produce a response that draws upon your studio and professional practice to respond to the needs of a client brief and its end user.
You studies will include … Site analysis & context studies (social; political; economic; cultural; legal) Genius loci & narrative studies Ordering & spatial diagramming Concept attainment & modelling Design development & proposition Detailing & materiality Environmental strategies Design management Communication & presentation

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-interior-design-extended-degree-uusxrd1:
Z054
This course focuses on interior design for a broad spectrum of spaces, including those of commercial, lifestyle, educational, civic and cultural purposes.
You will discover the power that interior and spatial design has to influence our daily lives, whilst developing a rich understanding of how to create impactful and effective spaces that are environmentally and socially conscious.
The course emphasises conceptual design and technical ability, providing the perfect environment for you to prepare yourself to enter the interior design industry.
The way your work is assessed is informed directly by industry practices and predominantly focuses on producing design project portfolios, with supporting presentations, collaborative work, and reporting on your design-led inquiry.
As a designer preparing for practice, assessments encourage your visual communication, compelling story-telling, theoretical and critical justification, and thorough documentation of your own design journey.
Design processes are driven forward by feedback.
Our studio-based approach emphasises assessment for learning, providing you with opportunities for ongoing weekly feedback, formative reviews and peer-learning to enable you to push your own boundaries.
Your submissions will receive concise summative feedback to recognise the strengths in your work and provide recommendations to help you to achieve your potential.
Other courses you may be interested in: Interior Architecture BA (Hons) and Architecture BA (Hons)
In year 1 you will discover the world of interior design.
Pulling back the curtain on iconic spaces, we will encourage you to challenge the way in which you see the built environment.
You will learn the art of storytelling through designed spaces and be shown how to represent these ideas technically.
You will emerge with an understanding of key practices and concept-driven interior design.
In year 2 you will build upon key skills gained in year 1.
You will be encouraged to push boundaries within creative projects, striving to deliver socially conscious design solutions which promote human well-being, exploring the importance of responsible design initiatives.
You will aim to positively impact global design through ethical, sustainable practices within interior design projects.
In final year you have space to really flex your design skills.
You will build a deep critical understanding of a topic of your choice and set your own project brief, allowing you to showcase your interests and create a sense of professional identity.
You will finish with a final major project and have the opportunity to present this to industry and potential employers.
DE4029 -
Discovering Interior Design (Core,40 Credits)
Discovering Interior Design is a level 4 block 1 module that will introduce you to the world of interior and spatial design through a series of projects that emphasise creativity, exploration and experimentation, all within a supportive environment that aims to encourage playful risk-taking in your work.
You will become familiar with the experiential learning benefits of studying, working and collaborating in a studio environment.
The module will introduce you to the fundamentals of the design process through an exploratory, creative approach intended to help stimulate your curiosity and build confidence in using design methods.
During this module you will undertake a series of practical interior design projects by responding to set design briefs, that will enable you to gain an overall understanding of the discipline.
You will be encouraged to push your own boundaries and take risks in your creative approach.
You will begin to develop your approach to interior and spatial design through the introduction to essential principles, key skills and core knowledge.
You will be introduced to essential drawing and communication techniques including freehand drawing, orthographic projection and Adobe Photoshop.
Design projects will be set in the context of existing or new build architecture and will ask you to engage with the exciting spatial challenges that interior design poses.
Topics: introduction to discipline / what is interior and spatial design / thinking conceptually / working collaboratively / implementation of 2D & 3D development drawing and design communication / orthographic drawing at a general arrangement scale / principles of spatial arrangement / model making / essential design development skills.
DE4030 -
Responding to Context in Interior Design (Core,20 Credits)
This level 4, block 2 module is designed to enable you build upon the fundamentals of the design process that were delivered in Discovering Interior Design, within the context of commercial interior design.
You undertake a practical interior design project, responding to a set brief, that will expand your conceptual thinking and design development abilities by designing a concept-driven interior scheme.
To generate your concept you will draw influences from the specific design context that you explore in detail through the parallel module Introducing Interior Design Contexts.
You will continue to enhance your analytical and critical thinking by deeply engaging with the physical context of the site, and the socio-cultural and historic contexts explored in Introducing Interior Design Contexts.
This project gives you the opportunity to build on Discovering Interior Design by learning to perform a more comprehensive site analysis.
Alongside which, you will continue to establish your research and analytical abilities by gathering and critically interpreting relevant reference material.
The project is structured to provide an experiential journey that sequences the various activities as a contiguous design process.
Through which you will continue to develop your confidence with hand drawing, orthographic drawing and model making skills.
In addition to these essential communication techniques, you will be introduced to 3D modelling.
This will allow you to develop a more sophisticated spatial understanding, and express your design in a new and exciting way.
Creative risk-taking continues to be encouraged, and you will be supported to expand your understanding of how critical thinking integrates with design development by engaging with a plurality of contextual factors.
Topics: introducing a typical sector of commercial interior design / historical, contemporary and socio-cultural factors / generating a concept from relevant contextual factors / fundamental space-planning & layout / 3D modelling / presentation & employability skills.
DE4031 -
Architectural Technologies and Alternative Materials in Interior Design (Core,20 Credits)
This level 4, block 3 module introduces you to the fundamentals of constructing interiors, focusing on design of the physical elements that you will add, remove and manipulate within a given space.
The design brief requests that you carefully consider the environmental impact of your material decisions by exploring a range of alternative materials.
You will go on to design an intervention that celebrates one or more materials that are bio-based / low-carbon / renewable / regenerative / recycled.
In order to expand your range of design development and communication techniques, you will continue to grow your 3D modelling skills, experimenting virtually with the ideas you envision for spatial interventions.
Your learning continues to be structured around a design project, initiated by a set brief, that enables you to synthesise your learning so far with a new focus on manipulating space with walls, floors, fixed elements, joinery, materials, and lighting.
You will continue to develop your comprehension of the fundamentals of interior design practice, such as logical principles of planning and layout, whilst gaining an introductory understanding of statutory requirements such as building regulations.
Through this project your observational skills will be enhanced by engaging with the physical building structure and fabric of your given site, which you will need to understand carefully in order to recognise the many creative possibilities available.
Your developing competency in research and analysis will be necessary to allow you to extend your points of reference in order to expand your awareness of materiality and work on a site with more than one floor level.
Through which you will continue to develop your confidence with hand drawing and model making skills, whilst also continuing to gain experience with crucial visualisation software - Photoshop.
Creative risk-taking continues to be encouraged as you begin to incorporate an extended palette of design considerations, from built elements that configure space to new materiality, lighting, fixed and loose furniture, and beyond.
Topics: Environmental sustainability / alternative materiality / planning and construction / manufacture and fabrication of interior elements.
DE4032 -
Introducing Interior Design Contexts (Core,20 Credits)
Introducing Interior Design Contexts is a level 4 block 2 module that will introduce you to key historical and cultural influences in design, focusing on the critical role of context in establishing meaning and purpose in interior spaces.
This module will enable you to explore significant design exemplars and understand their wider global and cultural influences and impacts.
This fundamental understanding will help inspire, inform and justify your contemporary design projects, and begin to lay the foundations for your own developing practice of interior design.
Drawing from a depth of research and disciplinary knowledge, academic staff will deliver an introductory understanding of key design influences, exploring how they can be translated into contemporary design concepts.
This module will strengthen your overall understanding of how historical and contemporary phenomena provide a rich basis from which to generate concepts and justify design decision making.
Furthermore, the module aims to stimulate your curiosity and initiate your own journey of independent exploration, as you begin to gather a depth of references that position not only your project work, but who you are as a designer.
Topics: iconic design and aesthetics (varying topics) / influential movements in design / storytelling for design concept generation / development and implementation of conceptual design / working with heritage & listed buildings.
DE5034 -
Tactics and Strategies for Interior Design (Core,40 Credits)
This level 5 block 1 module is designed to further develop your understanding of interior space and form by encouraging you to be more radical with your interventions.
The module allows you to build upon the skills and knowledge gained in previous design project modules and will allow you to develop an individual analytical approach to your design practice.
Through a sequence of set design briefs you will learn to develop strategies combining interior design tactics that are both spatial and human-centred, synthesising contextual factors with user-research to create several alternative design concepts.
Practical design projects will challenge you to combine a thorough understanding of purpose, whilst dealing with increasingly complex technical and commercial realities.
Allowing you to define your own boundary-pushing approach to design through the experience of site, scale, manipulation of space, strategic re-use of existing buildings, building technology, remodelling, lighting, branding, virtual environments, ergonomics, materiality and construction detailing.
Design projects will be set in the context of adaptive re-use of existing buildings and will ask you to engage with the exciting spatial challenges that interior design poses.
Projects typically focus on commercial sectors of retail, leisure, hospitality and exhibition, through the tactics of architectural insertion, installation, and/or intervention in response to the interplay of site and users.
During this module you grow your readiness for professional practice through an introduction to industry level Computer Aided Design (CAD) 2D drawing.
Building on your understanding of orthographic drawings, you will now be able enhance your design communication and technical abilities with the increased sophistication afforded by CAD software packages.
This module is intended to be fast-paced and highly interactive, taking your newly familiar studio-based working practices to the next level.
You will be expected to work both collaboratively and independently, whilst extending the range of physical and virtual design development and communication techniques that you now have at your disposal.
Topics: Building re-use and re-interpretation / Human centred design and user research / Service design as part of a full interior design proposal / Building exteriors and facades / Embedding design principles through design practice / Detailing packages / Sustainability / Architectural technologies.
DE5035 -
Interior Design for Wellbeing (Core,20 Credits)
This level 5 block 2 module is designed to further broaden your contextual understanding of interior design.
Through this practical design project you will explore the role of spatial design - and responsibilities of interior designers - in relation to wellbeing.
You will critically engage with prevailing contemporary cultural movements and/or social and societal matters of concern, and develop your practice in response to the crucial factors that you identify through research.
You will be encouraged to consider how such contextual influences may evolve and transform future scenarios.
What are the challenges now?
How might they be transformed in the future?
Interior Design for Wellbeing runs in parallel with the adjacent Investigating Interior Design Contexts module.
As a result you will be expected to combine curiosity and creativity with inquiry and criticality, to design spaces that address emerging needs, desires, challenges and trends relating to wellbeing.
Your growing material understanding will allow you to explore new opportunities that respond to the intrinsic inter-dependency between human and environmental wellbeing.
Thus, enhancing your already growing awareness of sustainability in interior and spatial design.
This module also requires you to build on the essential CAD skills that you gained in block 1 and develop a robust understanding of CAD-driven orthographic drawing principles, conventions and communication techniques.
Topics: Building re-use and re-interpretation / Service design as part of a full interior design proposal / Building exteriors and facades / Embedding design principles through design practice / Detailing packages / Sustainability / Architectural technologies.
DE5036 -
Branded Environments in Commercial Interior Design (Core,20 Credits)
This level 5 block 3 module will draw together the knowledge that you are developing about interior design practice.
The module foregrounds the key roles of brand, audience and product/service in creating successful commercially-driven interior spaces.
A focus on synthesising the skills and knowledge that you have gained in previous design project modules will help you to advance your own practice, whilst also helping you develop your individual approach from design brief through to design proposal.
During this module you will be encouraged to make design decisions more independently, and confidently articulate their justifications.
In doing so, you will build on your emerging sense of professional identity.
The practical design project will be based on either a staff-selected design competition, collaborative project, live brief or staff-initiated design brief that will challenge you to respond to contemporary critical issues, emerging trends  and anticipated future opportunities.
Your resultant work will demonstrate a thorough consideration client brand, target audience, and product/service delivery, developed in harmony with the implications of site, place and urban context.
Projects are intended to emphasise the experiential nature of successful interiors and may deal with industry sectors such as retail, leisure, civic and culture.
You will continue to explore strategies of insertion, installation, and/or intervention in response to site, with a strong understanding of the surrounding urban environment.
You will be supported to implement design tactics related to brand, urban context, manufacture, materials and processes, construction and technology, ergonomics and lighting in producing a well-resolved branded interior design proposal.
Design projects will be set in the context of existing or new build and will ask you to engage with the exciting spatial challenges that interior design poses.
Topics: Building re-use and re-interpretation – internal and external / Branding and branded interior environments / Service design as part of a full interior design proposal / Architecture, ‘shop fit’ and visual merchandising as part of a cohesive scheme / Construction and furniture detailing / Architectural technologies.
DE5037 -
Investigating Interior Design Contexts (Core,20 Credits)
This level 5 block 2 module will demonstrate that successful design does not begin with a clean slate, rather it will always draw inspiration from somewhere.
As aspiring designers, it is important to understand that constructing proposals for creative projects requires thorough investigation of the situation within which we are designing.
Establishing the contexts of the design project is essential when generating ideas, and this is led by an ethos of ‘the more you look the more you will find’.
Investigating Interior Design Contexts continues to promote the fundamental relationship between designing and storytelling.
Whatever project you are presented with must always be supported by a strong narrative.
The module will explore the wider extent of global, social, and cultural impacts of significant examples of design whilst considering how they may inspire or provide clarity within your own contemporary conceptual design projects.
Focus will be placed on socially conscious design, challenging consumer focused society and asking how we can produce sustainable spaces which promote human wellbeing and quality of life.
The world as we know it is heavily influenced by design outcomes that have gone before, it is our job to make something even better.
To help you achieve this, the module aims to advance your established understanding of conceptual design and critical influences.
Through a series of collaborative sessions promoting open discussion, academic staff will present a critical exploration of key influences on socially conscious design, exploring how they can be translated and implemented for contemporary design concepts within tutor guided sessions.
Within this module you will continue to explore significant/exceptional pieces of design, building upon understanding gained within level 4.
Topics: socially conscious design exemplars / responsible design initiatives / design strategies for human well-being / global design impact / ethical, sustainable practices.
DE6026 -
Business and Commercial Strategies for Interior Design (Core,20 Credits)
This level 6 block 1 module will use design practice to introduce you to an advanced level of professional knowledge and understanding, using an experiential approach based on proposition and feasibility; the strategic planning stages of a design project.
You will gain an essential understanding of commercial interior design as business, starting from the basics of "how to actually make money as a designer" as an initial positive focus.
This understanding will help you to contextualise the wider implications of your design practice, and highlight the importance of attention to detail.
Empowered by this new understanding, this module will help you to grasp the detail of project management, control and coordination of project information, and contract administration.
This crucial professional knowledge will give you a powerful head-start as you enter practice in industry, or go on to further study.
Throughout the previous 2 years of study you have acquired a range of important communication techniques that use a variety of media.
Now it is time to focus on the most important medium that you - as a designer - have at your disposal; yourself!
You will learn how to present and conduct yourself professionally, and in doing so gain a new confidence in your design practice.
Topics: construction project management / client needs / contract administration / practice management / employability / critical design analysis / key project stages.
DE6027 -
Speculative Futures for Interior Design (Core,20 Credits)
This level 6 block 2 module is designed to give you freedom to push your creative boundaries ever further.
Fundamentally, design involves creating the future and what is produced through designing becomes the constituent parts of the future that we will live in.
This is the power of design.
To truly innovate you need to break free from existing concepts and notions, it is necessary to look beyond the present day and beyond current conceptions.
Radically innovative design comes about through creative leaps that are not based simply on iteratively improving the existing.
Radical creative leaps emerge through a process of completely re-envisioning the world around us.
Through Interior Design Contexts in first and second years you have learned the important relationship between designing and storytelling.
This module will challenge you to generate boundary-pushing interior design concepts by envisioning alternative and/or near future scenarios, and develop these into a convincing design proposition supported by a compelling narrative.
You will be supported to speculate about directions of future development, anticipated new applications of interior design practice, and emerging ideas about how we might live, work and play.
The practical design project(s) will be an appropriately selected design competition, collaborative project or staff-initiated design brief.
As a level 6, final year design module, you are expected to work with an increasing degree of autonomy, therefore specific aspects of the brief will be left undefined to allow you to propose appropriate factors.
The module allows you to bring together core principles, skills and knowledge gained in previous design projects.
Meanwhile you will be encouraged to experiment with emerging techniques and new technologies for design development and communication.
Topics: emerging and creative technologies / design futures / speculative design / visualisation / scenario-driven narrative concepts.
DE6028 -
Advanced Commercial Interior Design for Industry (Core,40 Credits)
This level 6 block 3 module allows you to demonstrate your comprehensive understanding of the design process through a complex, self-determined, research informed and comprehensively resolved final major project.
This project is developed from your early proposals made in Business and Commercial Strategies for Interior Design (DE6026), and supported by your investigation in Research Practice for Interior Design (DE6029).
In this module you will reflect upon your learning to-date to demonstrate autonomous creative, professional, analytical and intellectual ability.
You will evidence your developing practice of interior design and readiness to engage with the industry.
The self-determined project brief will research and develop key themes such as; design, site, brand, sustainability, technologies, construction, customer, user experience and the future.
The module allows you to build upon the skills and knowledge gained in previous design project modules and will allow you to develop your individual approach to design briefs through to a final design proposal, set in the context of the final year graduate approaching employment.
You will subsequently demonstrate your understanding and skills in communicating a resolved interior design solution.
Building on the previous level 6 modules, you will further develop design intent through various techniques and methods including, modelling (both computer generated and physical), verbal and continued drawn design development.
You will be required to demonstrate how design solutions are realised through the use of 2D and 3D communication, to industry level, that enables clear communication and dialogue with clients, construction firms and manufacturers.
Design projects will be directed by you and set in the context of existing or new build architecture and will ask you to engage with the exciting spatial challenges that interior design poses.
A diverse range of topics and sites relevant to the interior designer will be covered and defined by you.
DE6029 -
Research Practice for Interior Design (Core,20 Credits)
This level 6 block 2 theoretical module will provide the platform for you to build your research practice for Interior Design.
This is your opportunity to become an expert in your chosen topic of interest, developing your own rich knowledge-base to support your self-directed final major project.
Throughout your study so far you have gathered experiences of different design approaches, contexts, sectors, and purposes.
You will reflect on your journey so far and outline your own unique area of interest, upon which a focused investigation will take place.
During this module you will investigate the critical context for your final project.
This will involve systematic research and analysis to comprehensively grasp your chosen subject.
You will conduct primary and secondary research activities in order to build an evidence base, using designerly methods, tools and techniques, that will provide you with unique expertise to inform and influence your design work.
You will be introduced to a variety of analytical procedures that will enable you to interpret your research data.
These will incorporate typical methods of analysis alongside more subject-specific techniques.
The outcome of this module will be a professionally prepared report, combining a practitioner-led reflective inquiry with a method statement and insights from primary and secondary research.
You will embed the full spectrum of communication techniques that you have gained so far, combining a variety of text-based approaches with engaging and informative visual and diagrammatic content, to engage your reader and communicate your research findings effectively.
Top Department : Northumbria is ranked 1st in the UK for Interior Design studies (Guardian University League Table, 2025).
Student Rated : Over 94% of students studying Interior Design at Northumbria believed their course positively challenged them to achieve their best work, and thought their course enabled them to develop knowledge and skills needed for their future (NSS, 2025).
Top University: Design at Northumbria is ranked 4th in the UK (Daily Mail University Guide, 2025).
You will gain unique access to industry leading specialists and cutting-edge research.
Furthermore, you will be joining a course with an exceptional reputation for employability that is recognised by a wide-spread network of design agencies, studios and practices.
Our Interior Design course has an excellent reputation for employability.
We maintain strong links with industry through a wide network of design studios and practices in the UK and beyond.
We strongly value experiential learning and by choosing to study with us, you will learn by doing, making, creating and engaging with real-world situations and professional practitioners.
Career directions related to interior and spatial design are many and varied, your skills will be in demand both within and beyond the mainstream interior design industry.
You can expect to work within inter-disciplinary project teams, and opportunities to work internationally are common.
Leonie Woolf
Patrycja Göncziné
Seonaid Munn
Alexandra Field
Your degree will provide you with the core technical skills demanded by the interior design industry.
But more importantly, our course is designed to give you both the creative confidence and professional competence to grow in your career.
You will learn in an environment that nurtures your talents whilst also foregrounding the importance of professionalism as a crucial mindset, supporting you to transition smoothly and confidently as you make your next steps.
Take a moment to view a snapshot of our Class of 2025's work.
Aidan Wilson
United
Beth Plant
NSide
Lydia Dunn
Newcastle Brown Ale
Sebastian Czaparowski
Kultura
Teaching and learning is delivered by a team with significant industry experience, including current and visiting professionals.
This is enhanced by leading researchers, bringing you to the forefront of design innovation.
Dr Julie Trueman
Dr Ollie Hemstock
Dr Roderick Adams
Seton Wakenshaw
Our course is predominantly delivered in purpose-built design studios, which provide space for formal teaching but also are open for independent study.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/ba-hons-interior-design-uusird1:
W252
Throughout your course you will be expected to pay for the printing of work and to purchase specialist equipment, this may include: layout pads, drawing pencils, sketching pens, craft knives etc.
These will vary in cost and as a guide can range from approximately £400-£500 over the duration of the programme.
There are optional field trips that you may wish to participate in and as a guide these have previously ranged from London, Manchester, Berlin to New York, with an approximate associated cost of £250-£1000 to cover travel and accommodation, plus subsistence.
You are also expected to budget for final year graduate exhibitions, should you take part - this covers travel, accommodation and exhibition set up.
Whilst we provide access to computers and software, we would recommend that students have their own laptops –with 8 GB RAM and a graphics card with 2 GB VRAM, 15"" screen minimum (cost varies depending upon type of machine, between £700 - £2800).
Software programmes: Adobe Creative Cloud is provided by the University  throughout the programme.
AutoCAD is introduced in your second year of studies, which can be accessed via a free student licence.
Access and software delivery within the interior design programme is on PC, however Mac’s are also suitable.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-international-banking-and-finance-completion-award-newcastle-uufikf1:
This course has been designed so you can achieve a well-rounded understanding of business and the development of specialist knowledge in international banking and finance, as well as transferable professional and managerial techniques.
You will develop skills and knowledge through the identification of contemporary professional banking and Finance practice in discipline specific modules such as financial forecasting, financial markets, investments, and risk management.
You’ll gain first-hand experience of financial markets through using our Bloomberg terminals and taking advantage of opportunities to build a track record and portfolio.
With a banking and finance specialism as part of your degree award, you’ll have an extra edge in employability you will build your professional and practice capabilities through problem-based and experiential learning.
This approach will equip you with the skills and qualities sought by employers across the private, public, and not-for-profit (NFP) regionally, nationally and internationally.
Accredited Course: This course
is covered by the prestigious Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of
Business (AACSB) accreditation for Newcastle Business School.
According to
AACSB, 'Approximately 6% of the world's schools offering business degree
education have achieved AACSB accreditation, demonstrating a commitment to
high-quality, rigorous standards, innovation, and continuous process
improvement'.
UCAS Code N4N1
Your tutors will challenge you through modules that take a strategic consideration of business and management within a international banking and finance context, as well as a substantial piece of research work that is relevant to a specific research problem within international banking and finance.
At the end of this course there are logical career paths into banking, finance, financial services, insurance, and financial advisory work, both in the UK and around the world.
Experience International Banking and Finance virtually or in-person.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-international-banking-and-finance-newcastle-uusikf1:
UCAS Code N4N3
You will embark on a number of different modules in your first year including core modules to support your learning journey, and specialist modules within international banking and finance.
In your final year, you will be challenged through modules that allow you to take strategic consideration of business and management within a international banking and finance context, as well as a substantial research-based activity that is linked to a specific research problem within international banking and finance.
See all of the Modules on this course .
You can also undertake further study at postgraduate level with a course such as our International Finance and Investment MSc .
Experience International Banking and Finance virtually or in-person,,
AF5045 -
International Finance, Trade and the Banking Sector (Core,20 Credits)
On this module you will consider the management issues faced within the international business environment that many contemporary companies face on a day-to-day basis.
It is designed from a real-world relevant point of view, and examines practical situations, with real world cases being used in seminars to highlight issues.
As a result of the real world focus you will also be introduced to the key documents that are needed for international trade as well as consider how these issues impact the world of banking.
In particular you will study: • Financial goals and corporate governance • Raising international finance • International investment decisions • International business currency • Financing international trade • Guest lectures to explore International finance and the role of banking • Professional and business ethical behaviour in an international context.
You will learn through lecturers, seminars, guided learning, and independent study.
There will be two hours of lectures per week which will cover theories and concepts that will enable you to benefit from the experiential learning aspects of the seminars.
There will be one hour of seminars per week which will be facilitated by group tasks, team working, communication and interpersonal skills and will allow you to reflect on your learning.
Use of the modules e-learning portal will be essential as this will support the work you will be undertaking in the lectures and seminars.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-international-banking-and-finance-london-uuflkf1:
The UK remains one of the world’s leading hubs for the international financial and related professional services industry, with London at its core (TheCityUK, 2025).
Gain first-hand experience of the financial market, learn from real-time data, and be guided by experts in the field with our BSc (Hons) International Banking & Finance programme.
This course will enable you to gain a comprehensive understanding of the global financial landscape and will equip you with the skills and knowledge to join the banking and finance industry.
Throughout the course, you will engage in topics such as strategic management and corporate responsibility, banking risk management, international finance and financial management.
You will have the opportunity to build your portfolio and employability, distinguishing yourself from your competitors with the first-hand experience of current market developments and financial data.
Upon graduation, you will be equipped with the skills and knowledge to join the banking and finance industry in areas such as financial services, financial advisory work, international banking, building societies, insurance companies, credit unions and other financial intermediaries.
BTEC HND/Foundation Degree or equivalent in a related subject.
If you have taken a BTEC HND programme, we will usually expect you to have performed to an average of Merit standard.
If you have taken a Foundation Degree, we will be looking for performance to Commendation level, or 60% average**
This module will allow you to understand and explore key strategic decision-making aspects and their interface with cultural contexts, including: International market entry and growth Communicating across cultures International business protocol Ethics and responsible business Managing the value chain in international business Financial Markets and Institutions In this module, you will develop a strong understanding of financial markets, the way they operate, the regulations by which they must abide and the ethical considerations that practitioners are confronted with daily.
You’ll also explore financial software data to understand how markets operate and how securities are priced.
You will learn about financial transactions and have the chance to explore the role of the professional bodies.
Decision Making in the Financial Environment This module will support your transition into UK higher education by developing your specific skills and attributes to both manage your studies and communicate your ideas effectively within the academic community.
International Finance, Trade, and the Banking Sector Management in the international business environment that contemporary companies face involves a fundamental knowledge of the key financial issues of raising capital, exchange rate management and how these impact the world of banking.
The module is designed to teach you from a real-world relevant point of view to examine practical situations and use real-world cases in seminars to bring the subject alive, highlight and contextualise the issues.
You will explore these topics from a corporate and social responsibility perspective, and ethical considerations will be a running issue throughout the course.
Financial Markets and Institutions In this module, you will develop a strong understanding of financial markets, the way they operate, the regulations by which they must abide and the ethical considerations that practitioners are confronted with daily.
In this module, you will develop a strong understanding of financial markets, the way they operate, the regulations by which they must abide and the ethical considerations that practitioners are confronted with daily.
Management in the international business environment that contemporary companies face involves a fundamental knowledge of the key financial issues of raising capital, exchange rate management and how these impact the world of banking.
Direct entry students Students directly joining on Level 6 will study the below modules plus the common modules listed below.
Students directly joining on Level 6 will study the below modules plus the common modules listed below.
In this module, you will learn about capital risks faced by financial institutions.
You will study the specific areas of credit, market and liquidity risk in the context of the relevant regulatory framework (The Basel Accords) and draw on case study material provided by high-profile banks and financial institutions.
You will develop an understanding of the nature of these interlinked risks and of how they are measured and managed in line with regulations.
The banking and financial services industry operates in a risk structured environment.
Financial institutions are required to measure, manage and transfer risk, under the constant eye of financial regulators.
This module focuses on treasury risk connected to interest rates and foreign exchange rate risk.
You will also explore the dynamic world of operational risk and fraud risk assessment within financial institutions.
You will have the chance to investigate how financial institutions risks are linked via systemic risk, and what makes institutions more susceptible to shocks.
You will engage with financial news stories in the Financial Times or Bloomberg and apply your learning on the module to them, as well as your reflections on financial documentaries, movies and leading applied research in the area which is available on the modules eLP.
This module will develop you to have an awareness of contemporary financial events and the underpinning academic literature surrounding them so that when you go for an interview with an employer you are able to display a reflective, evaluative and critical understanding of the financial challenges modern business face.
Institute UCAS code: N77 Course UCAS code: N4N1 (level 6), N4N3 (level 5)
You can apply online to study the BSc (Hons) International Banking and Finance.
Risk in Financial Institutions I In this module, you will learn about capital risks faced by financial institutions.
Risk in Financial Services II The banking and financial services industry operates in a risk structured environment.
You will have the chance to investigate how financial institutions’ risks are linked via systemic risk, and what makes institutions more susceptible to shocks.
International Finance and Responsible Management Responsible financial management is at the heart of business decision making.

New sentences found on https://northumbria.ac.uk/study-at-northumbria/courses/bsc-hons-international-business-management-extended-degree-uusxbg1:
Our BSc (Hons) in International Business Management will provide you with the theory and practice to make management decisions in rapidly changing environments.
This fascinating International Business Management course provides specialist business and management education that is deeply international in focus.
You’ll gain skills and knowledge across a range of business functions, all with a global orientation, to develop an understanding of real-world business decisions and actions that transcend borders.
You’ll also have the chance to study or work for a year in a different country.
Your one-year studying abroad or work placement could see you living in Asia, the USA, Australia or Europe – a life-changing experience that builds both self-confidence and cultural awareness.
It’s a winning combination that will set you apart from others when embarking on your future career.
The relevance, rigour and internationalisation of the course has been tested through the EFMD accreditation process.
The course also covered by the prestigious Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) accreditation for Newcastle Business School.
Check out our Business Courses or see other similar courses you may be interested in: Business Management BA (Hons) , Business and Marketing BA
Student Rated - Over 95% of students studying International Business Management at Northumbria believed they had chance to explore ideas and concepts in depth (NSS, 2025).
UCAS Code Z022
Your studies begin with an introduction to the global business environment, key marketing principles and financial decision-making, before diving deeper into diverse topics including creativity and innovation, the digital economy, emerging economies and strategic management and internationalisation.
You’ll learn through techniques that include problem-based learning in the experiential based modules.
These address challenges from the real world of business, giving you the opportunity to develop your own approach and come up with viable solutions.
Academics will support you through all taught sessions, as well as when you’re planning your independent study time.
In your fourth year, you have a choice.
You can write a dissertation, for which we’ll encourage you to follow your own interests related to international business and management, and answer a relevant research question.
Or, you can be part of a student group undertaking a consultancy project on a real-world, client-based problem supported by the  Faculty’s Business Clinic.
During the four years of your course, you’ll be assessed through exams, written assignments and reports, as well as individual and group presentations.
Your tutors will explain in detail how the marking works before you tackle your assignment.
That way you’ll fully understand what’s expected of you before you start.
This includes the Business Clinic that enables our students to participate in a ‘consultancy firm’ to provide advice for our region’s businesses.
At Northumbria, we take an enquiry-based, problem-solving approach, encouraging you to develop research skills like information literacy, sampling, statistical reporting and surveying.
Throughout the course your learning will be directly
informed by the teaching team’s active research into their specialist subjects,
which will develop your insights into global business connections and
management practices, geopolitical dynamics, cultural contexts, technological
advancements, environmental and societal impacts related to international
business operations around the world.
In addition to the tutor-directed,
research-rich modules, you’ll undertake a substantial, independent
research-based project relating to an International Business theme.
This
research project will help you develop and demonstrate your curiosity, creative
problem-solving and innovative capability to critically evaluate and analyse
academic or professional practice.
Employability is at the heart of our Business courses – with every module building the transferable skills you’ll need to move into graduate employment.
In your first and second year, you’ll study modules in ‘Professional career development’ and ‘Managing people across borders’.
Both will develop your employability and leadership potential, as well as help you plan for your career.
What’s more, our international work placement scheme will help boost your job prospects – with graduates going on to work for global brands such as Samsung, KPMG and Disney.
Further examples of recent graduate progression from this course include a selling partner at John Lewis, a graduate management trainee at Taylor Wimpey Homes, a personal banker at global financial organisation Citibank and a digital marketing specialist at international communications agency Ogilvy.
Alternatively, a study year abroad will not only give you international awareness and enhance your CV but also increase your confidence and personal development.
We have well-developed links with highly-respected institutions in Europe, North America, Mexico, Hong Kong and many other countries, opening a world of opportunities.
By the end of this course you’ll be in an excellent position to apply for graduate training schemes and roles in large corporations such as British Airways, Santander and Deloitte, as well as small and medium-sized enterprises.
Recent graduates have gone on to be entrepreneurs, business managers, consultants and analysts in different global sectors – fully equipped to see the world from an insightful, international perspective.
MK9413 -
Global Marketing and Communications (Core,20 Credits)
This module will examine a range of contemporary global marketing communication concepts within the current vibrant world trading environment.
Within this module you will analyse the differences within aspects of local and international marketing planning.
It will provide you with an understanding of key academic debates and marketing tools and will enable you to appreciate the multifaceted structure of global marketing and communications decisions.
This module will address a range of global marketing areas, more specifically will explore the following themes: • Introduction to International Macro Environment • Global trading environment: globalisation, localisation, glocalisation • International marketing research • Cross cultural issues • Adaptation of marketing mix in the global context • International marketing communication strategies • International advertising and communication messages • Traditional and digital media in global environment • Ethical considerations in global marketing • Global electronic marketing tools and strategies
SM9411 -
Global Business Environment (Core,20 Credits)
The module is comprised of three blocks of material.
The three blocks are: Globalisation This block will cover topics such as the process of globalisation, barriers to globalisation, the benefits and costs of globalisation for business, international trade, analysis of the external business environment, corporate social responsibility issues in the global economy, etc.
Economics This block will focus on the market forces of supply and demand, supply and demand elasticity, government policy, gross domestic product (GDP), the consumer price index, a macroeconomic theory of the open economy, etc.
Economic Competitiveness Topics covered in this block include foreign market entry modes, process of foreign direct investment, analytical frameworks for assessing national competitiveness, the risk assessment for business decisions, etc.
At the end of the module you will be able to: 1.
Identify and describe the main features, trends & influences of the global business environment on international organisations.
Analyse various global and/or international business contexts and how these affect the strategic development of industries, markets and organisations.
Apply basic macro-economic theory in an international business environment and use economic analysis to examine major social and economic issues in the UK and beyond.
Creativity and Innovation (Optional,20 Credits)
SM9546 -
Managing People Across Borders (Core,20 Credits)
This module will teach you about challenges that face firms which operate in global and multi-cultural business environments.
Global firms need to understand the vast differences in the environments in which they operate.
In this module, you will learn how to assess and overcome these challenges in order to run a successful firm.
To aid in this exploration, you will learn about theories and frameworks that explain cultural and institutional differences between countries, and the impact of these differences on individuals, teams, and firms’ behaviour.
You will examine the strategies and structures that can be used by multinational enterprises to address these challenges and how an effective international human resource approach can be developed.
You will explore the challenges of managing people across borders in the context of decision-making, leading and motivating culturally diverse employees, and knowledge transfer across national boundaries.
Through these subjects, you will also have the opportunity to build your employability skills supported by activities and discussion tailored to international business management.
Finally, the ethical issues arising from operating in multi-cultural environments will be examined.
SM9547 -
Finance and International Business (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will be exploring the field of finance in international business and builds on the basic level of knowledge of finance from your foundation level finance module.
It is important to understand the rationale behind the globalisation process and this module will expose you to the financial drivers in that process.
Starting with a refresher on basic finance, you will engage with imperatives in international project decisions, capital raising in international markets, capital deployment and management by multinational enterprises, banking aspects in international markets and country and multilateral participation in driving international finance.
Topic areas will be as follows.
-	Corporate valuation, capital budgeting, working capital concepts and cost-volume-profit and financial ratio analysis (mainly a refresher) -	Solvency concepts -	International project risks; currency risks -	Risk and regulation in country financial markets that impact multinational operation -	Banks and their role in international finance: cost, impact and regulation -	Enablers and barriers of international money movement -	Finance in international business and society
SM9551 -
International Business Negotiation (Optional,20 Credits)
In this module you will be exploring the essence of negotiations in an international business setting.
This module complements and builds on the cross-cultural management theory that you will acquire in the core module (SM9532) in semester one.
The module emphasises on applying the theoretical concepts of cross-cultural management in practical and real-life scenarios.
You will be introduced to the concept of balancing the tangible and intangible aspects of negotiation.
After completing the module, you will be able to (1) identify, analyse, and resolve conflict situations during business negotiation; (2) identify, understand, and overcome cultural and national stereotypes; (3) improve your soft skills and interpersonal communication.
SM9632 -
Contemporary Issues in International Business (Core,20 Credits)
This module aims to provide you with insights into contemporary issues and an ability to evaluate and critique business responses to them.
Businesses work in a dynamic environment ever more so when working across the globe.
The challenges imposed by and the nature of issues that they face are quite heterogeneous.
This module provides a perspective on these and builds your ability to evaluate and suggest responses to address them.
International business and the interface with the digital environment 2.
Entrepreneurship and international business 3.
Contextual policy and environmental aspects and responsible business practice 4.
Competitive international business strategy in emerging markets 5.
Multiple stakeholder perspectives and varying units of analysis in examining contemporary issues.
Legislation and enforcement in the international business context
SM9690 -
Strategic Management (Core,20 Credits)
This module focuses on the strategic decisions and actions at a firm’s disposal when they operate in global and volatile competitive environments.
As the cornerstone of every business, whether domestic or international, the formulation and execution of effective strategies will determine their competitiveness, performance and success.
Firms who are unable to enact effective strategies are likely to be less competitive, achieve sub-optimal performance and fail.
In this module, we will focus on firm strategies and will examine the theoretical concepts, tools and frameworks that are useful for framing and analysing a firm’s boundaries, while also guiding the formulation and execution of different types of strategies.
We will identify and critically evaluate the essential components of a firm’s strategy in the context of resources and capabilities, competitive advantages, environmental scanning and turbulence, and the integration of internationally-orientated activities within the organisational structure.
Finally, this module will provide you with the knowledge and skill-set required to critically analyse and interpret strategic decisions and actions when competing globally.