# Site: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 491
# --------

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk:
Browser does not support script.
Visit our stunning campuses
Please add a keyword and select a level of study.
Popular links
Study with us
Chat to students and staff
Open days
International students
Shape your future with an undergraduate degree.
Visit the Welcome hub to prepare for life at UoN.
Supercharge your career with a master's degree.
for graduates entering highly-skilled jobs
HESA Graduate Outcomes 2025
university in the UK
QS World University Rankings 2026
university in the world
QS World University Rankings 2026
From our world to yours.
We are UoN research.
A new study, led by experts at the University of Nottingham, has found that people who test positive following a stool test for symptoms of bowel cancer, had double the risk of death after one year than people who had negative tests, and most of the deaths were due to other causes.
A physicist from the University of Nottingham has had her work to engage more girls with Physics recognised with a prestigious award from the Royal Society.
Researchers have successfully produced antibodies that kill the parasite carried by the ‘kissing bug’ that causes the potentially deadly Chagas disease.
The research is a vital step towards the development of the first effective vaccine.
New research has shown that the skin temperature on specific areas of the body is a strong indicator for how hot, cold or comfortable people feel.
These findings could inform the design of wearable technology and smarter, more intuitive building climate control systems.
+44(0) 115 951 5151
Lines are open:
Monday-Friday 9.00am-4.30pm
University of Nottingham
University Park
Nottingham, NG7 2RD
United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/study-with-us.aspx:
Thrive at the world-class University of Nottingham and enjoy life in a top-rated student city.
Our courses develop your skills and knowledge to help you become unstoppable in your career.
That's why we're the top UK university for graduates entering highly skilled employment and we've held the top spot five for the past five years (HESA Graduate Outcomes survey publications 2021–2025 for full-time, UK, undergraduate and postgraduate).
Join a welcoming and diverse community of 47,000 students from over 150 countries who are making a difference locally, nationally and globally.
Make Nottingham your place.
Experience our beautiful campuses, enjoy world-class sport and fitness, and get the support you need to succeed.
for graduates entering highly skilled jobs  (HESA Graduate Outcomes, 2025)
UK university for student life (UniCompare 2026)
UK university (QS World University Rankings 2026)
Join a Russell Group university at the heart of the UK.
With world-class teaching, award-winning campuses and outstanding sport and leisure facilities - all set in a vibrant and welcoming city - you can enjoy the best of all worlds.
Our degrees provide the real-world skills, hands-on work experience and industry connections you need to stand out to top employers.
Plus, our expert careers advice is yours for life.
Let your future start here.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/ugstudy/find-uon.html:
I’m looking for…
Popular Searches
Browse our undergraduate prospectus or answer a few questions and we'll help you find relevant study options, tailored information and advice before applying to become a student at the University of Nottingham.
1st
for graduates entering highly skilled jobs (HESA Graduate Outcomes, 2025)
5th
in the UK for student life  (UniCompare 2025)
Top 20
Please dont close this window
Open days are a great way to learn more about your course, meet academics and chat to students.
They also help you to get a feel for the place, so that you can decide whether life as a Nottingham student is right for you.
Explore our University Park Campus
University Park is the University of Nottingham’s largest campus at 300 acres.
Part of the University since 1929, the campus is widely regarded as one of the largest and most attractive in the country
Find out more
The University of Nottingham, University Park, Nottingham, NG7 2RD
Jubilee campus
The University of Nottingham, Wollaton Rd, Lenton, Nottingham NG8 1BB
Sutton Bonington campus
The University of Nottingham, Sutton Bonington, Leicestershire, LE12 5RD, UK
Student experience
We are Nottingham.
Locally rooted, yet globally connected, we are the heart of the UK.
One destination with endless possibilities.
One beating heart with a desire to drive change
Applying
Interested in undergraduate study at Nottingham?
Here's our guide to submitting your application.
Although the majority of our applicants will have A levels, we welcome and value a wide range of alternative qualifications.
If you want to find out more about our entry requirements, it's time to read on...
We consider applicants solely on the basis of their merits, abilities and potential – regardless of gender, ethnic or national origin, age (subject to the university regulations on minimum age), disability, religion, sexual orientation or any other irrelevant distinction.
You’ve submitted your application, but when will you find out if you’ve been accepted into your dream university?
To ease application anxiety, we run through what to expect from the process.
Finding the right words to include in your personal statement can be tricky, but we're here to guide you through it.
Scholarships and bursaries
Discover information that may help you fund your study at the University of Nottingham.
Disability support
We are here to support the University community in creating an inclusive and equitable teaching and learning environment to the benefit of all students.
Our specialist service provides student-led support to enable disabled students to flourish as independent learners.
We are here to help you if you have a disability, mental health difficulty, long-term medical condition, autistic spectrum condition, or a specific learning difference such as dyslexia, dyspraxia, dyscalculia or ADHD.
Study abroad
The majority of University of Nottingham students have the opportunity to have an international experience during their university career.
Nottingham has 200 university partners in 40 different countries spanning six different continents across four different exchange programmes.
These include Inter-campus exchange, International exchange and International summer schools.
Centre for English Language Education
The Centre for English Language Education helps develop your academic and language skills before you start university, preparing you for the demands of academic study in a range of disciplines at all levels.
We also offer academic language and communication skills support during your studies.
Admissions
Browse our guide of common terminology when considering admission to university.
IELTS
IELTS is jointly owned by British Council, IDP: IELTS Australia and Cambridge Assessment English

Every year, IELTS helps millions of people realise their dreams of working, studying or living abroad, or improving their opportunities at home.
The test has been developed by experts to evaluate your English skills in reading, writing, listening and speaking – and it’s trusted by organisations all over the world, from universities and immigration bodies to companies.
So the IELTS journey you start here at The University of Nottingham, could take you almost anywhere.
Widening participation
At the University of Nottingham, we provide student recruitment outreach activities for schools and colleges locally and nationally, starting at primary school age.
We believe everyone should have an equal opportunity to study at higher education, and offer a variety of support and projects to help prospective students secure a space, no matter what your background is.
Placements
A placement is time spent in a workplace, doing supervised work, during your studies or shortly after graduation.
You might see placements advertised as ‘internships’, ‘work experience’, or ‘volunteering’, as different organisations use different terms.
What’s most important is that you choose an opportunity that interests you, and will help you develop skills future employers value.
Sport
As the Sports University of the Year for 2024 and top University in the UK for team sport, we offer an award-winning programme of sport, health and fitness opportunities for our students and community.
Nottingham and Nottinghamshire
Nottingham is considered to be a generally safe city, with low crime rates, find out more below.
The city has many highlights if you consider studying at the University of Nottingham.
Here are the "hidden gems" students should know about when visiting Nottingham.
Find out more about Nottingham and what the city is famous for.
International Students
Finding the familiar in a new city.
Information to support your application
Browse our frequently asked questions
Need more help?
Supporting your child's university decisions
We're Sports University of the Year 2024
Make an enquiry with our team of support staff
Useful information about how to travel to our campuses.
Maps and directions >
Get a taste of student life by visiting our campuses or trying our virtual tour.
Find out more >
Explore University Park Campus and discover our award-winning green spaces, iconic Trent Building, impressive libraries, boating lake and loads more on one of our student-guided tours.
{{ item.faculty }}
Entry requirements {{ item.clearingALevel ?
item.clearingALevel : item.entryRequirementsCode }}
UCAS code {{ item.ucasCode }}
Duration {{ item.duration }}
Start date {{ item.startDate }}
{{ item.category }}
If you’re looking for more information, please head to our help and support hub, where you can find frequently asked questions or details of how to make an enquiry.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/pgstudy:
Unlock the power of learning with a postgraduate degree from the University of Nottingham.
Designed to elevate and expand, our courses propel you toward your career goals.
Find your perfect fit and explore everything from application tips to available scholarships.
Search our postgraduate courses
Hear from our academics, alumni, careers and admissions teams, and many more.
Book your free place today
International applicants
Make an enquiry
Follow our guide to finding postgraduate funding
Find out more about life at the University of Nottingham
Meet us at events online and around the world
High-quality funded PhD opportunities across a broad range of research areas
Find out how we support our researchers and staff
Discover more about the research taking place across the university
Apply online
Already applied?

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/index.aspx:
Study in Nottingham
Find out which of our courses still have places available for this September.
Find your new path and search courses now.
Go further, faster with a degree from the University of Nottingham, the top UK university for graduate jobs .
Sign up now for our Clearing alerts and be the first to know.
Connect with staff and students.
Find information, entry requirements and official representatives from your country.
Plan your finances and find out about scholarships.
Learn about English language requirements and support.
Choose where to live from a range of options.
Explore Nottingham, one of the best student cities in the world.
Read why more of our graduates enter highly skilled employment than any other UK university.
Enjoy world-class teaching, award-winning campuses and outstanding sport and leisure facilities.
Discover Nottingham
Find out how to apply to study at the University of Nottingham.
How to apply
“It's the total package of all the support I've received at University of Nottingham which has furthered my career and helped me in other aspects of my life.
It has opened many opportunities and drastically improved my network and, as they say, your network is your net worth.”
Abdulquadri Ademakinwa - Architecture and Environmental Design MArch (Digital Engineer, Laing O'Rourke and Bouygues Travaux Publics)
Top 100 world university
1st in the UK for high-skilled jobs
3x sports university of the Year
The Times and the Sunday Times Good University Guide
7th in the UK for research power
Research Excellence Framework 2021
Top 10 in the UK for student life
UniCompare 2026
Find courses
Contact or meet us
Find out how to prepare for coming to Nottingham after receiving an offer to study with us.
Get ready

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/services/degree-apprenticeships.aspx:
Transform your workforce with our degree apprenticeships
Discover our programmes and tools to engage your employer
Top 20 UK university (QS & THE World Ranking)
Judged 'Good' by Ofsted for our skills provision (2024)
Ranked 7th in the UK for Research Power (REF 2021)
Rated excellent by our partner employers (IFA website)
By partnering with an institution celebrated for its academic excellence, pioneering research, employability and world-leading campuses and facilities, your business will be able to attract, retain and develop top-talent.
Explore the current degree apprenticeship opportunities with our partner employers or sign-up to get vacancy notifications straight to your inbox.
Our current degree apprenticeship vacancies
Read our latest degree apprenticeship news.
View our latest events and on-demand webinars.
Explore our frequently asked degree apprenticeship questions.
We've been working with apprentices and employers for a number of years, so we've collated the answers to some of our most asked questions.
Frequently asked questions
Connect with Nottingham Degree Apprenticeships
Connect with the University of Nottingham through social media and our blogs .
Campus maps | More contact information | Jobs

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/what-next/fees-and-funding.aspx:
Nottingham is an affordable city to live in and there are a variety of ways for you to finance your studies.
Further information on fees and funding can be found on our financial support webpages.
Tuition fees
Funding for undergraduate students
University Park Nottingham, NG7 2RD
telephone: +44 (0) 115 951 5151 fax: +44 (0) 115 951 3666 email: Contact us

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/virtual:
Discover campus life at The University of Nottingham with 360 degree images and videos on our virtual tour.
Experience student life by exploring areas such as accommodation, student services, sport centres, libraries and more.
There are lots of different ways to explore and get a feel for life at Nottingham, online and in-person.
A full day of talks with campus tours and accommodation drop-ins.
Come and chat to our academics, current students, careers team and more.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/history/abriefhistoryoftheuniversity.aspx:
Nottingham's first civic college was opened in the city centre in 1881, four years after the foundation stone was laid by former Prime Minister, W E Gladstone.
An anonymous benefactor had offered £10,000 for a college on condition that a suitable building be erected by the Council and that the college should be provided with £4,000 a year.
After the First World War, the college outgrew its original building.
A generous gift by Sir Jesse Boot, of 35 acres of land at Highfields, presented the solution and in 1928 the College moved to what is now the main campus, University Park .
Initially, it was accommodated in the elegant Trent Building and was officially opened by King George V in November of that year.
Even in its early days on this site, the College attracted high profile visiting lecturers including Professor Albert Einstein, Mahatma Gandhi and H G Wells.
In 1948, the college was awarded the Royal Charter and became The University of Nottingham, now able to award degrees in its own name.
During this period the School of Agriculture was established when the Midland College of Agriculture at Sutton Bonington merged with the University.
The University of Nottingham continued to grow and still focuses on its development.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/keydates:
The academic year runs August to July.
The below term and semester dates relate to the general teaching and examination periods at the university.
Dates may differ for some programmes of study, especially for postgraduate and Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences programmes.
Please note that some of these dates may be subject to change.
Key dates for future years
*This denotes the end of teaching.
This will not be the case for all students, and many postgraduate students will remain in term-time and be required to conduct research over the summer period.
Students are advised to check their course structure and end date with their school or department.
*Please note, these deadlines refer to courses with a standard start.
For detailed information regarding ceremony registration, ticketing, and related inquiries, please visit our graduation webpages .
Back to top
Monday 22 September 2025 - Friday 26 September 2025
Monday 21 September 2026 - Friday 25 September 2026

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/structure/universitystructure.aspx:
The University is governed by two main bodies: Council and Senate.
At the head of the University are the Chancellor and Vice-Chancellor , Professor Jane Norman.
The University's administrative and support departments support the running of the University and contribute to its growth and success both nationally and internationally.
The University has a published Operating Model .
Find out about the government and management of the University, its Chancellor, Vice-Chancellor and Pro-Vice-Chancellors.
The nine centres that support the day-to-day running and development of the University.
Information on Faculties, Schools and Academic departments.
The University of Nottingham in Semenyih, Malaysia.
The University of Nottingham in Ningbo, China.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/global/home.aspx:
In 2012, The Times described Nottingham as “Britain’s first truly global university”.
Since then, we have consolidated this position and moved from being a university with the boldest of visions to establish overseas campuses, first in Malaysia and then China , to one which has built on this vision and developed it into a core part of its being.
It is our ambition to move beyond this and become known across the world as Britain’s foremost global university.
A university which continues to innovate and lead in the ever-competitive global higher education sector.
One which thinks and acts both locally and across borders and cultures to promote the development of a global mindset as an integral part of the Nottingham student and staff experience.
A university which becomes the destination of choice for the brightest and internationally curious minds.
Our Strategic Priorities describe initiatives which will support staff and students on our campuses in the UK, China, and Malaysia in achieving this ambition together.
Strategy
Study Abroad
Partner visits
Visiting Researchers
Nottingham is a founding member of the Russell Group of universities in the UK, and a member of Universitas 21 through which we continue to find new ways of collaborating across borders.
We currently have over 46,000 students, including 11,500 at our international campuses, and over 9,000 international students on our UK campuses.
Working across borders is at the very core of our international activity.
International intelligence and support resources for staff (login required)
Information for international applicants and students
uonglobal@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/strategy/home.aspx:
The University of Nottingham was founded on the vision and philanthropic spirit of Jesse Boot who, in 1928, donated the land that is now University Park.
The vision of a university devoted to discovery, enterprise and the advancement of the human condition, combined with his lifelong commitment to improving health and wellbeing, remains intrinsic to the culture of the University today and will continue to underpin our future purpose .
to be a university without borders, where we embrace the opportunities presented by a changing world, and where ambitious people and a creative culture will enable us to change the world for the better.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/facts/factsandfigures.aspx:
Our position as a world-class university is confirmed by our ranking in the global league tables.
We are proud to be a top 20 UK university (QS World University Rankings 2025) and our graduates are sought after by leading employers world-wide.
We are committed to giving our students an unparalleled experience that helps to prepare them for life after university.
Our rankings and achievements
Results from recent assessments of teaching quality at the University including TEF and QAA.
The university was rated seventh for research power in the latest Research Excellence Framework .
The University of Nottingham's global review and financial statements

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/vision:
Discover how our research transforms lives and shapes the future.
The University of Nottingham has reaffirmed its commitment to help transform Kenya's health system
As the UK has just experienced one of its driest springs on record, Professor Simon Gosling reflects on his research into sustainable solutions for managing the planet’s freshwater resources.
This summer, Nottingham Castle unveils FOREST—an immersive exhibition where art, science, and woodland myth intertwine.
What began as a single conversation grew into a vibrant collaboration between artists, engineers, and researchers.
In this article, Maria Richards, Head of Public Engagement at the Institute, shares how curiosity sparked this cross-disciplinary journey.
Discover how groundbreaking research by Dr Jessica Jackson is helping families navigate the emotional toll of climate change.
By exploring the link between parents’ climate anxiety and children’s wellbeing, this study offers vital insights for schools, communities, and policymakers.
Learn how emotional resilience can become a key part of our climate solutions.
Dr Venga Sarma, Assistant Professor in Industrial Economics at the University of Nottingham, is leading a project in collaboration with Sri Lankan policymakers to evaluate the impact of school clustering reforms designed to promote a more equitable education system.
Tom Rodden shares insights on how Artificial Intelligence can be leveraged to accelerate progress towards net zero.
Culture and communication
Healthy lives
Society and communities
Sustainable futures

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/fabs/research-innovation/engagement-and-partnerships.aspx:
Business Engagement coordinates the University’s strategic partnerships and collaborations with industry and other organisations, and regional engagement activity.
We work with our academics and external partners to deliver research impact and to create new commercial opportunities.
Support the academic community to develop relationships with external organisations.
Engage with businesses to deliver services.
Engage with SMEs and local partners, running regular events through our business networks.
Develop strategic partnerships with key corporate businesses.
Support access to collaborative R&D funding, including Knowledge Transfer Partnerships and Innovate UK.
Work with our Asia Business Centre to identify, access and develop opportunities and partnerships in Asia and to collaborate with our campuses in Asia.
Work with student and academic entrepreneurs based on the University of Nottingham Innovation Park.
Paul Yeomans, Head of Business Engagement paul.yeomans@nottingham.ac.uk 07846 973056
Ruth Eccles, Head of Professional and Work-based Learning ruth.eccles@nottingham.ac.uk 0115 74 84778
Jason Feehily, Head of Trusted Research jason.feehily@nottingham.ac.uk 07780 491136
Get in touch: research.innovation@nottingham.ac.uk
Jubilee Conference Centre Jubilee Campus Triumph Road Nottingham, NG8 1DH

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/policy-and-engagement/public-engagement/index.aspx:
The Institute's mission is to support the exchange of knowledge and ideas to enrich policy making, inspire people, support communities, transform lives and shape a better future.
The Institute for Policy and Engagement runs regular events that help connect policymakers and the public with the exciting research taking place.
If you have any suggestions for events you’d love to see us organising, or if you’re running an event where our research might make a contribution, please get in touch.
Email us
Our Science Public Lectures bring the wonder of science to life through a series of free monthly public events.
Discover how the University of Nottingham and Nottingham Castle are collaborating on an exciting new contemporary art exhibition this May.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/policy-and-engagement/home.aspx:
The Institute connects Nottingham's world-leading researchers with the public and policymakers to share insight and solve problems.
We work with academic experts from across the university who want to create real impact by providing training, advice and expertise.
Through these partnerships we will tackle together the most compelling challenges locally, nationally and globally.
University of Nottingham staff member?
Discover more about the training and support we offer via our SharePoint site
See all our upcoming and recent events
Sign up to our newsletter
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter/X
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Instagram
Read our blog
Listen to our podcast
Get in touch

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/expertise.aspx:
This is the place where businesses and world-leading research come together to solve real-world challenges.
Unlock your businesses potential with funded research – together we can innovate, boost productivity, and enter new markets.
Explore the range of finance options available to help you work with our academics, graduates and facilities.
Access collaborative funding
Developing solutions to industry problems, our sector specialists offer tailored support helping businesses deliver societal impact and translate innovative developments into increased profitability.
With dedicated centres of excellence and industry-focused research facilities, we specialise in:
We understand the challenges businesses of all sizes face, that's why we work with SMEs to multinationals, such as AstraZeneca, Bosch, and Unilever to deliver tailored solutions.
As a member of the business network, you can enjoy a programme of training, networking and events designed specifically for SME businesses.
Join the Business network
Academics can bring a whole new level of expertise to your business project.
Nottingham University Consultants will connect you with the right consultant for your project, and can handle the contractual, administrative and financial obligations.
Nottingham University Consultants
We have extensive experience of working with businesses to help them license innovative technologies developed here at the University of Nottingham.
Our academic and research staff are working to develop new ideas and technologies, many of which have opportunities for commercial applications.
License our technology
Inventions and innovations that result from University research may be commercialised by out-licensing to industry.
Nottingham Technology Ventures Ltd manages the University of Nottingham's portfolio of spin-out companies.
Go to Nottingham Technology Ventures

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/develop-workforce.aspx:
Transform your workforce with one of our degree apprenticeships.
Designed with employers, our cost-effective programmes combine real work with rigorous study, tackling industry skills gaps and producing experienced, work-ready graduates.
Go to degree apprenticeships
Executive Education offers a flexible and tailored approach to leadership and management training, designed for business professionals at every stage of their career.
Programmes can be designed around the needs of an organisation to address organisational aims, challenges and aspirations.
They can be delivered in person, online or hybrid, both in the UK and internationally.
Go to Executive Education
Learn without limitations at the University of Nottingham Online (UoNO) with many courses designed and delivered in partnership with industry leaders.
In the fast-paced world we live in today, it can be difficult to find the time to gain a university accredited qualification.
With both intensive and standard courses available, you can decide on the right course for you and for the right time.
Go to UoNO
Ranked as a Top 100 university* for our excellence in teaching, research, and thought leadership, we educate and influence people from across the world to become leaders in sustainable business and management.
* QS World University Rankings 2024
Go to Nottingham University Business School
Broaden the abilities and advance the careers of your most promising talent.
Our continuing professional development opportunities offer robust and flexible ways to learn new skills through MBAs, specialist training and bespoke courses.
Go to continued professional development

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/recruit-our-students-and-graduates.aspx:
Recruiting our students and graduates can bring fresh thinking and insights to your business.
Our students and graduates are highly-sought after by some of the world’s top companies, innovative start-ups, and third-sector organisations.
Whether you have one vacancy or 100, to be filled now or after graduation, advertise your roles for free through MyCareer – our online jobs board.
Email recruiterservices@nottingham.ac.uk to find out more about MyCareer, our recruitment fairs, employer presentations and how best to promote your opportunities and enhance your workforce.
If you’re looking for a graduate to work on a specific project, we offer three programmes that could be benefit your business:
For more information, please contact our Recruiter Services team recruiterservices@nottingham.ac.uk
For short-term projects, our students can bring a fresh perspective through work experience or an internship.
Whether it’s a holiday placement or a year-long position, advertise work experience or internship roles for free on MyCareer – our online jobs board – or through our recruitment fairs.
Email our Recruiter Services team recruiterservices@nottingham.ac.uk
There are other ways you can tap into the knowledge and expertise of our students:
Short term schemes
Year-long schemes
For more information on the above schemes, please contact our Recruiter Services team recruiterservices@nottingham.ac.uk
If you’re looking to recruit students or graduates for part-time, temporary roles, get in touch with the Unitemps team – part of the Careers and Employability Service.
With a huge database of student and graduate candidates actively looking for flexible-work opportunities, we can help you find the right person for the role.
To recruit through Unitemps, please contact our team at recruit.unitemps@nottingham.ac.uk or call 0115 748 4189.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/collaborativefunding.aspx:
Join hundreds of UK-registered businesses benefitting from funded partnerships.
In a rapidly evolving world, staying ahead requires more than just keeping up – it demands innovation.
With the support of government funding, your business can access our world-class research expertise to tackle strategic challenges, drive growth, and deliver meaningful economic, societal, and environmental impact.
With a network of over 3,000 researchers spanning multiple sectors, we connect businesses with the sharpest minds to develop cutting-edge solutions that transform industries and communities across the UK and beyond.
Through government-funded research partnerships, you can unlock new opportunities, boost productivity, and expand into new markets.
Whether you're looking to enhance your R&D capabilities, develop breakthrough technologies, or address complex challenges, we provide the expertise and support to turn ideas into impact.
We recognise that every business faces its own unique challenges.
That’s why we take the time to listen, understand your specific needs, and tailor our support to help your business unlock its potential.
We’ll partner you with the right experts who truly understand your needs.
We're 7th in the UK for research power ( REF 2021 )
We’ll help you access government funding and support you every step of the way.
We're in the top 3% of English universities for business collaboration ( KEF 2024 )
Part-funded by UK Research and Innovation through Innovate UK, we offer two pathways to help your business access research expertise and vital funding to accelerate projects and turn ideas into reality.
KTPs help UK-registered businesses and charities tackle strategic challenges, by transferring knowledge and expertise from within the university and embedding it into your organisation.
UK-registered businesses can apply for Innovate UK grants from £25,000 to £10m.
Let us help you craft a compelling application, access our expertise and facilities, and together we can bring your innovations to life.
Ready to start the conversation?
If you have a question about funded partnerships or would like to explore collaborative opportunities with the University of Nottingham, get in touch with our Business Engagement team.
Send an enquiry
The entire University of Nottingham team provided unwavering support every step of the way from aligning our vision with the grant criteria to bringing together various departments whose expertise would help us achieve project objectives and create a strong proposal.
They helped us clarify our proposal in an impactful way, and their guidance on data, formatting, IP, and deadlines ensured our application was polished and professional.
What stood out most was their genuine investment in our succes – they truly became partners in our journey.
Sprint Electric's breakthrough Generis AC regeneration drive is set to transform manufacturing with cutting-edge switching technology – delivering unmatched efficiency, lower costs, and superior motor control.
Discover how Warner’s Distillery partnered with the University of Nottingham to revolutionise gin production through cutting-edge flavour chemistry and sensory science.
XAIS-PTS partnered with the University of Nottingham to develop advanced predictive software, enabling local authorities to forecast infrastructure needs, cut costs, and enhance road management.
Jampa’s and the University of Nottingham are pioneering next-generation meat alternatives with enhanced nutrition, taste, and sustainability through cutting-edge research and innovation.
From academia to impact: Victoria’s Knowledge Transfer Partnership journey with Browne Jacobson
Meet Victoria Howard – a sociolinguist with a passion for language, identity, and meaningful change.
Through a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) with Browne Jacobson, Victoria is applying her research expertise in professional communication to the legal sector.
Her work focuses on analysing how language shapes workplace culture and interactions, helping to design evidence-based strategies that foster greater inclusivity and organisational transformation.
Watch as Victoria shares her journey from academia to industry, revealing what inspired her to become a KTP Associate – and how the partnership is not only shaping her career, but also influencing how Browne Jacobson approaches equality, diversity, and inclusion in the workplace.
View all case studies

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/services/facilities-and-equipment.aspx:
This is the place where you can access world-class facilities, from smart manufacturing to sustainable chemistry.
It's a place to call home – base your business here and immerse yourself in excellence and inspiration.
UNIP is the place where innovation thrives.
Based on the Jubilee Campus, UNIP provides co-location space for businesses and University of Nottingham spin-out companies who want to collaborate with the university on research projects, and utilise the talents of our students and graduates.
Join the UNIP community
We offer three remarkable campuses that cater to a diverse range of requirements.
Whether you’re planning professional meetings, exhibitions, or looking for the ideal venue to host a conferences our venues provide limitless possibilities.
Explore our campus venues
Our research facilities are catalysts for innovation.
We're  committed to addressing the key challenges of our age through collaborative research and partnerships that brings together academics from across subject areas.
If you're looking for ground-breaking research facilities, then you've come to the right place.
From revolutionising the world of manufacturing, with OMNIFACTORY , a state-of-the-art concept factory, to translating zero carbon research into real-world solutions, our internationally leading experts are solving industrial challenges.
Our research institutes, groups, centres, and clusters work closely with industry to turn world-class research into reality.
Explore our Faculty of Engineering facilities
We're working with industry to help supports the exploration, research and design of human-robot interaction, our Cobot Maker Space is a 99m² facility that offers ultramodern robots and equipment.
With 15 research centres the Faculty of Science offer real solutions with business in mind .
Explore our Faculty of Science facilities
With a focus on making a real-life impact to patients and the public, we use advanced research facilities and associated expertise to underpin the cutting-edge research we do.
We provide a range of services to veterinary professionals and businesses, from nutritional analysis to veterinary pathology services .
Explore our Faculty of Medicine and Health Science facilities
The Faculty of Social Sciences is comprised of seven major schools, each providing a range of services for business.
Unlock your business potential at the Ingenuity Lab – access support, services and mentoring by experienced entrepreneurs and specialist consultants.
Explore our Faculty of Social Sciences
From virtual and immersive production studios and psycholinguistics labs to unique collections and historical archives, our research environments are a winning combination of personal support, facilities and collections enabling our researchers and partners to produce work of international impact.
Explore our Faculty of Arts research environments

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/news:
To contact the Press Office, call 0115 951 5798 or email pressoffice@nottingham.ac.uk.
For out-of-hours emergencies , email pressoffice@nottingham.ac.uk
The University of Nottingham YANG Fujia Building Jubilee Campus Wollaton Road Nottingham, NG8 1BB
telephone: +44 (0) 115 951 5798 email: pressoffice@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/events/events.aspx:
There are no results that match your criteria.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/help-and-support/home/contact-us.html:
We’re here to support you every step of the way
General enquiries - use our online enquiry form and we'll get back to you within three working days For accommodation enquiries, visit our accommodation page
Join our Facebook community.
Follow us on Instagram.
Get the latest news and updates.
Find the answer to your query
Guidance from student ambassadors
We’ve won over 22 Green Flag awards for the most beautiful campuses in the UK.
Our map and travel advice will help you make your way to and around the University of Nottingham.
Leave the M1 motorway at Junction 25 to join the A52 to Nottingham.
Take the third exit at The Priory roundabout (about 4 miles from M1) and join A6464 Woodside Road.
At the next roundabout take the first exit and enter University Park Campus via the West Entrance.
From here you can access both the De Vere Orchard Hotel or the Main Visitor's Car park.
Car Parking on Campus
If you are attending the conference dinner in the evening of April 21st or have overnight accommodation at the Orchard Hotel then you can park for free in the hotel car park on campus (it is walking distance to the conference venue).
If you are attending as a day delegate on April 22nd and wish to park on campus you will need to use the
Pay & Display facilities in the Main Visitors's Car Park and tickets must be displayed at all times.
Parking charges are:
If you are attending as a day delegate and intend to travel by car you might find it easier to use the park and ride facilities to get to the campus.
There are park and ride facilities at Toton Lane (near junction 25 of the M1) and Hucknall (near Junction 27 of the M1).
Parking is free at both locations and they are on the tram network to easily get to the campus by tram.
Depending on which end of the line you park, board the tram to Toton Lane/Hucknall and get off at University South Entrance (stop UN07).
All tram travel is ‘buy before you board/ so please ensure you buy a ticket from the machine at the stop or via your mobile using the NetGo app.
A single trip is £2.50 (£1.90 for students) and a day travel card is £4.40 (£3.40 for students).
Travelling By Tram
From any city centre tram stop including Nottingham train station get on the tram towards Toton Lane getting off at University South Entrance (stop UN07).
All tram travel is ‘buy before you board/ so please ensure you buy a ticket from the machine at the stop or via your mobile using the NetGo app .
Travelling by Bus
There are a number of public services that run from the city centre or train station close to or through our campuses.
For further details on public bus services to The University of Nottingham click here.
View the University Park Campus map: download .
Download the MyNottingham app .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/contact:
Our general switchboard will point you in the right direction, whatever your query.
To speak to someone at the following four campuses, call our switchboard on 0115 951 5151
University of Nottingham University Park Campus Nottingham, NG7 2RD United Kingdom
University of Nottingham Jubilee Campus Wollaton Road Nottingham, NG8 1BB United Kingdom
University of Nottingham Sutton Bonington Campus near Loughborough Leicestershire, LE12 5RD United Kingdom
University of Nottingham King's Meadow Campus Lenton Lane Nottingham, NG7 2NR United Kingdom
Queen's Medical Centre Nottingham, NG7 2UH United Kingdom 0115 924 9924
School of Medicine B Floor, Nottingham Medical School Queen's Medical Centre Nottingham, NG7 2UH United Kingdom
0115 823 0209
Clinical Science Building Nottingham City Hospital Hucknall Road Nottingham, NG5 1PB United Kingdom 0115 969 1169 , ext.
34784
Royal Derby Hospital Uttoxeter Road Derby, DE22 3DT United Kingdom 01332 724 900
University of Nottingham Jalan Broga 43500 Semenyih Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia
+60 3 8924 8000
University of Nottingham 199 Taikang East Road 315100 Ningbo, China
+86 574 8818 0000
Security at the university
If you have any questions about undergraduate or postgraduate study, please visit our Help and Support pages .
You can also:
If you have a question, use our enquiry form and we will reply to you soon.
You can also  contact our international team directly.
The student services team will help current students with any enquiries they have, or connect them with the relevant team.
These accounts are our main University of Nottingham social media accounts.
You may find school, course, or research group-specific accounts on their respective homepages.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/departments/a-z.aspx:
A
American and Canadian Studies Architecture and Built Environment Arts (Faculty of)
B
Biosciences Business School
C
Cancer and Stem Cells Chemical and Environmental Engineering Chemistry Child Health, Obstetrics & Gynaecology China Policy Institute Civil Engineering Classics and Archaeology Clinical Neuroscience Computer Science Cultural,Media and Visual Studies Cultures, Languages and Area Studies
E
Economics Education Electrical and Electronic Engineering Engineering (Faculty of) Engineering Surveying and Space Geodesy English Language Education English Epidemiology and Public Health
F
French and Francophone Studies Foundation Engineering and Physical Sciences
G
Geography German Studies
H
Health Sciences History Humanities
L
Language Centre
Law Life Sciences
M
Mathematical Sciences Mechanical, Materials and Manufacturing Engineering Medical Education Centre Medical Sciences and Graduate Entry Medicine Medicine (School of) Medicine & Health Sciences (Faculty of) Midlands mental health and neurosciences PhD programme Modern Languages and Cultures Music
N
Nottingham Digestive Diseases Centre
P
Pharmacy Philosophy Physics & Astronomy Politics and International Relations Primary Care Psychology Psychiatry and Applied Psychology
R
Rehabilitation and Ageing Respiratory Medicine Rheumatology, Orthopaedics and Dermatology Russian and Slavonic Studies
S
Science (Faculty of) Social Sciences (Faculty of) Sociology and Social Policy Spanish, Portuguese and Latin American Studies
T
Theology and Religious Studies
V
Veterinary Medicine and Science

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/contact/staff-search/uk-staff-look-up.aspx:
telephone: +44 (0) 115 951 5151 fax: +44 (0) 115 951 3666

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/visitingus/visiting-us.aspx:
Fees and funding

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/alumni:
Welcome to the University of Nottingham alumni community.
A global community of 350,000 Nottingham graduates, with opportunities for all.
An international community
Grow your professional and personal networks and connect with alumni and academics around the world.
Lifelong learning
Whether you're a new graduate or are more established in your field we can help you to continue to fuel your learning.
Give your time
Volunteering is a great way for you to learn new skills, make professional connections and give back to our students and alumni.
Networking
Grow your network and connect with your global alumni community of over 350,000 graduates.
Grow who and what you know with your alumni programme 'Connected we thrive' .
Connect with fellow Nottingham alumni from your 350,000-strong community at online and in-person events across the globe, build your professional networks and keep your connections from campus alive.
Thrive with our unique collection of webinars and seminars in our Learn library – carefully curated with a range of academic experts and leading alumni speakers, we tackle a range of practical topics.
Our Careers and Employability Service is also on hand to help you land your dream role.
Your community
Take a look behind the scenes of this summer's graduation ceremonies and meet our honorary graduates.
Catch up with personal and professional news updates from members of our 350,000-strong alumni community.
Jennifer Ji (Economics and Philosophy, 2016) reflects on her career post-Nottingham and how her degree skills help her reflect on the world today.
Discover the impact of the University of Nottingham Malaysia in a new report and see the events held to celebrate the anniversary.
View more
Jo Deal (BA Industrial Economics), Chief People Officer at Smartsheet, and colleague Lauren Paup, Global Early Career Programme Manager at Smartsheet,  delve into the world of recruitment and share insights and tips to help you prepare for the next time you’re applying for a role.
Leadership coach, founder and CEO, Costas Kalisperas (Law, 1990), shares the approaches you can take to diffuse, disarm and transform difficult situations.
Career coach and consultant, Ciara Eastell OBE shares her expert insight on how to navigate major changes in your career.
Learn how an entrepreneurial mindset can lead to better outcomes, potentially greater profitability and more rewarding workplace relationships.
Discover your next opportunity to make a difference.
Give a gift and help make the incredible happen.
Make sure you don't miss out on our exciting new Connected we thrive activities, alumni events, university news and opportunities around the world by sharing your contact details with us.
Sign up
Register your details to keep up to date with all the latest alumni news and events, or speak to one of our team.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/open-days:
Our next in-person open days are in September and October 2025.
Or you can visit campus by booking a campus tour or find out more about your course at a virtual open day.
You’ll be welcomed onto campus by our staff and students, ready to answer any questions.
Buildings will be open for you to explore and find out more about life at Nottingham.
Our next open days will take place as follows:
Join our Virtual Open Day, to find out more about life at Nottingham from anywhere in the world.
Our next Undergraduate Virtual Open Day will take place in September, with information for both UK and international students.
Come back closer to the time to book your place.
No matter where you're joining from, our Virtual Open Day is the perfect way to get all the info you need to plan your future at Nottingham.
The events are a series of short talks from our experts – and you can choose whether to watch in English or Mandarin.
You’ll hear directly from our academics about subjects in the following areas:
Free entry.
Here are the ways you can explore our award-winning UK campuses.
You can explore our University Park Campus on a student-guided campus tour.
Each tour will last around 60 minutes.
If you would like to book a tour with an international student ambassador you can do so here.
If you can't make it to an open day or campus tour, don't worry.
Our campuses are open to the public all year round.
We've created a self-guided tour of our University Park and Jubilee Campuses to highlight the best route to take with some information about key buildings as you explore the campus.
Please note, you won’t be able to go inside any halls of residence or some teaching buildings.
You can also explore our campuses with our 360° virtual tour of University Park, Jubilee Campus and Sutton Bonington.
Sutton Bonington is surrounded by the beautiful and peaceful countryside.
The campus has world-leading labs and specialist facilities, a working dairy centre and commercial farm.
University Park is one of the most beautiful campuses in the UK.
We have inspiring green spaces, including a meadow, and we’re home to the famous #BeastsOfUoN.
With a commitment to sustainability, we have won 17 Green Flag awards.
With futuristic and eco-friendly buildings it is a truly inspiring place to be.
We have invested in several new teaching buildings to ensure that you have access to the best facilities whilst studying here.
You will have access to several facilities on all our sites, such as clinical skills centre, libraries, labs, computer suites, simulation suites and anatomy suites.
Our medical schools are easily accessed by public transport from our University Park Campus.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/student-experience/life-on-campus.aspx:
Student life blog
The Students' Union is the hub of student social life on campus.
You can get involved with a wide range of activities including:
You can get tickets for events at a range of city centre venues through the SU, and they even run their own award-winning cinema and theatre group The Nottingham New Theatre .
Whichever campus you're based on and whatever your interests, you're sure to find somewhere to entertain yourself and meet up with friends.
More about University Park Campus
More about Jubilee Campus
More about Sutton Bonington Campus
You can find all information on our accommodation web pages.
Mature students and international students can also enjoy dedicated activities and events.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/student-living/accommodation/index.aspx:
Applying to Nottingham through Clearing?
Don’t stress about where you’ll live – your room is guaranteed if you apply before midnight, Sunday 31 August* .
As soon as you’ve received your provisional course offer, you can apply for accommodation using the link included in your offer.
It only takes a few minutes, and you’ll lock in your place at Nottingham.
*Subject to terms and conditions.
Frequently asked questions Apply today and secure your new home at Nottingham
A warm welcome
Catered halls
Self-catered halls
Easy travel
Accessible
Helping you to settle in and get the best out of your accommodation is what we do.
You can find helpful guides for living in halls, and the support we provide for our students.
Do you have additional needs and require extra support, find out how we can help.
Discover all of the details you need to live in halls.
Are you a care experienced or estranged student?
or looking for support with your accommodation?
find out more about how we can help.
Leaving home can be daunting, so we make sure that the university can assist you in making the transition as smooth as possible for you and your family.
Discover the facilities we offer prospective and current students to help them in settling in to start their new lives.
Get involved with your halls and access support where you need it.
Before you move into your new accommodation at Nottingham there's a few things you need to know.
Residential Experience is the core of your time in halls.
Find out how we support you in halls and the events we run to make your time special.
When living off campus you are still part of our community.
Find out how to be a good neighbour and support your community.
At Nottingham we are proud to provide high quality accommodation for our students.
In our pursuit of excellence we have won a variety of industry standard awards:
Where you live is a big part of your university experience and for your protection we are accredited by the Universities UK/Guild HE Code of Practice for the Management of Student Housing .
Accommodation at the University of Nottingham is supported by both university managed halls and privately managed halls.
As such we adhere to both the UUK (Code for university managed halls) and ANUK (Code for privately managed halls) codes.
If you want to know who is managing your site look for this logo on our Halls Webpages .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/sport:
Welcome to the #GreenandGold - if you are joining us this September then there is so much to look forward to!
With opportunities for everyone to #FindYourActive, you can join one of our clubs, hit the gym, or try out new sports in our fantastic on-campus facilities.
Head to our Welcome page to find out all you need to know about getting involved!
We have a wide choice of fitness classes, pool sessions and climbing wall tasters that are a great complement to any training programme.
From local school events, to national and international competitions we have an outstanding portfolio of sports facilities.
Whether you want to gym, swim, climb or compete in one of our 76 sports clubs - Student UoN sport and fitness membership has got you covered.
From beginner sport and halls sport leagues through to volunteering in our leadership academy, we have a wide variety of opportunities to help you get active.
Our range of sports scholarships are aimed at providing an unrivalled level of support to the brightest and best talents in the sporting world.
Sport is for everyone and we are here to ensure that there are accessible sporting and fitness opportunities for all students at the University.
If you're heading to one of our centres in the near future, you can find all you need to plan your visit on our customer information page.
This includes key information around travel, parking, and amenities, as well as highlighting any dates that we may be hosting major events.
Check out the latest dates on our calendar - join us to try something new, challenge yourself or support our teams!
Want to combine your degree with practical and transferable life skills that you can then take forward in the career of your choice?
We offer courses at undergraduate and postgraduate level across a variety of areas such as Sport and Exercise Medicine, Sport Rehabilitation and Sport Exercise Science
The University of Nottingham has done the double – by being named Sports University of the Year by two influential national university league tables.
Nottingham has been crowned the best university in the UK for sports by The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024 – the third time the university has been awarded the accolade by the publication since 2018.
It comes just days after also being named Sports University of the Year by the Daily Mail University Guide – in the first year that the national newspaper has produced its own UK university rankings and awards.
Read more about this recognition here.
Discover all you need to know about getting active on-campus with University of Nottingham Sport.
From key information about our facilities, programmes and membership, click below to #FindYourActive!
+44 (0)115 748 7000
sport@nottingham.ac.uk
Find our opening times here .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studentservices:
Your gateway to academic success and personal wellbeing
Register at the start of your course and then re-register at the beginning of each academic year
Learn about modules, complete enrolment and get help if you need it
Further direction and guidance on fee payments, funding and financial support
Access teaching timetables, book a room or submit an enquiry
Help and guidance with your course transfer, interruption or withdrawal
You might need to request a document or letter during your studies or after you've graduated
Our webpage contains all of the information you need about your assessments and exams
Explore our webpages to help you through your postgraduate journey
After all your hard work you're almost there!
Everything you need to know about graduating
When serious or unexpected problems affected your ability to do your work or sit exams.
Extenuating circumstances
Information about how you can take care of your mental health and wellbeing.
Student wellbeing
Support and adjustments for students with disabilities and health conditions.
Disability support services
Check through our A-Z of services to find what you are looking for.
View FAQs, submit your enquiries and extenuating circumstances.
Find details of how to get in touch either at a student service centre, or online.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/currentstudents/yourcommunity/living-in-the-community/livinginthecommunity.aspx:
Nottingham is a vibrant, diverse city, rich in culture, history, and community spirit – and we’re delighted to welcome students as part of its unique character.
Students bring fresh ideas, energy, and meaningful contributions to Nottingham's economy, culture, and community, enriching the city for everyone.
As a student, you play a vital role in Nottingham’s growth and diversity, and your presence helps make it a great place to live, work, and study.
With these benefits come shared responsibilities and important challenges to address.
Moving from living on campus or in halls to joining a mixed residential area brings a shift in roles and expectations.
That’s where the Community Engagement Team comes in.
Through proactive support, advice, and collaborative campaigns, we help you navigate this change, encouraging positive interactions and supporting community cohesion.
Take a look through our information, advice, and resources, to see how we work to make Nottingham a welcoming home for students and long-term residents alike.
Community Presence & Support
Collaboration and Local Partnerships
Education & Resources
Community Building Initiatives

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/ugstudy/clearing/clearing.aspx:
You've got this
If you are an international student, you can still apply for courses starting in September 2025 through Clearing by completing the international Clearing enquiry form .
Clearing applications for UK students are now closed.
Find out what courses are available in Clearing.
Remember: you've got this!
Confused about Clearing?
Read our quick guide
Guidance for parents, families and professionals
The Clearing process through UCAS
Clearing overview with all Clearing students
Hear from Edward, Charlotte, Ashley and Aarya who used Clearing to take control of their future and find their path to the University of Nottingham.
Read their stories
Any student who accepts an offer through Clearing and applies for their accommodation by midnight Sunday 31 August 2025 is guaranteed a place in university arranged accommodation.
*See terms and conditions .
Clearing can be stressful, and there are a lot of misconceptions about the process and what it means to apply through Clearing.
That's why we're busting all the myths to reassure you it's nothing to worry about.
Top UK uni for graduate jobs
Explore our campuses online
Contact us
Part of the university since 1929, the campus is widely regarded as one of the largest and most attractive in the country

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/facilities/facilities.aspx:
Continual investment in facilities for staff and students ensure that the learning and living experience at The University of Nottingham is the best it can be.
From provisions for childcare and disabled access , restaurants and cafeterias to computer facilities , life at the University should be as enjoyable and stress-free as possible.
Lakeside Arts Centre plays a key role in Nottingham's cultural life.
The University also has important community partnerships and two student theatre companies.
The University provides flexible conference and events solutions in four unique locations.
Services include accommodation solutions, events planning and a wedding service.
First-class facilities and fantastic opportunities for those who want to play sport at any level.
Library learning facilities are among the most  technologically advanced in Europe.
The University's health centre includes a dental practice, occupational health and pharmacy.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/library:
Welcome to University of Nottingham Libraries.
We're here to support you with your studies, research and teaching.
NUsearch - Search our library collections
All Libraries updates
All upcoming events
King's Meadow Campus Lenton Lane Nottingham, NG7 2NR
Please see our Help and support page for telephone and email contact points

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/help-and-support/home.html:
Welcome to the University of Nottingham help and support hub - here you will find articles, guidance and frequently asked questions which may help resolve your query.
Admissions A-Z
Accommodation
Scholarships, bursaries and financial support
Why study with us?
Support and projects for prospective students
Our campuses
Placements and work experience
Events and open days
Clearing
Help with your visa
We can help you pick from over 300 courses across 54 subjects.
Browse our online prospectus for 2025.
Get familiar with your university halls - from where to collect parcels to how to do laundry
As a member of the UK's prestigious Russell Group and the Universitas 21 global network of research-intensive universities, we deliver the highest standard of education, recognised worldwide.
Whether you've already applied or thinking about submitting an application to study with us, dive into what student life is like in Nottingham.
UON
British higher education combines tradition and academic study, with cutting-edge thinking and a global perspective.
Help and support
A helpful guide to take you through the steps to create a 'Find Your Nottingham hub' account.
The My UoN account will help you save courses and resources to a personal portal that you may find useful throughout the application process.
Our student enquiry centre can help you
You can filter and search for your query in our FAQ hub, which contains answers to frequently asked questions you may come across during the application process.
Register for Find Your Nottingham where you can bookmark content, save your questionnaire results and access your personal study options.
You can sign-in and browse at any time.
Don't forget that you can bookmark any content and view more information if you head back to the Find Your Nottingham hub.
You'll have access to your study options and personal content.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about:
Read our new University strategy.
The University's campuses in the UK, China and Malaysia.
Facilities for staff and students at the University of Nottingham.
The management and governance of the University, and its administrative and support departments.
Our financial statements, teaching quality, research excellence and international rankings.
Find out about the University's beginnings in 1881, our academic highlights and famous graduates.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/departments/byfaculty.aspx:
American and Canadian Studies Classics and Archaeology Cultural, Media and Visual Studies Cultures, Languages and Area Studies English French and Francophone Studies German Studies History Humanities Language Centre Modern Languages and Cultures Music Philosophy Russian and Slavonic Studies Spanish, Portuguese and Latin American Studies Theology and Religious Studies
Architecture and Built Environment Chemical and Environmental Engineering Civil Engineering Electrical and Electronic Engineering Foundation Engineering and Physical Sciences Mechanical, Materials and Manufacturing Engineering
Health Sciences Life Sciences Medicine Veterinary Medicine and Science
Biosciences Chemistry Computer Science Mathematical Sciences Pharmacy Physics and Astronomy Psychology
Economics Education Geography Law Nottingham University Business School Politics and International Relations Sociology and Social Policy

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/departments/researchcentresandinstitutes.aspx:
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Advanced Data Analysis Centre (ADAC) Url http://www.nottingham.ac.uk/adac/index.aspx Advanced Manufacturing, Institute for Url http://www.nottingham.ac.uk/ifam/index.aspx Aerospace Manufacturing, Centre for Url https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/research/groups/cam/index.aspx Aerospace Technology, Institute for Url http://www.nottingham.ac.uk/aerospace/index.aspx Arthritis Research Campaign National Pain Centre Url http://www.nottingham.ac.uk/paincentre/index.aspx Biodiscovery Institute Url https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/research/research-areas/biodiscovery-institute/biodiscovery-institute.aspx Children's Brain Tumour Research Centre Url http://www.cbtrc.org/ Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care East Midlands Url http://www.clahrc-em.nihr.ac.uk Criminal Justice Research Centre Url https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/research/groups/criminal-justice-research-centre/index.aspx Critical Theory, Centre for Url http://www.nottingham.ac.uk/research/groups/cct/index.aspx D H Lawrence Research Centre Url http://www.nottingham.ac.uk/research/groups/dhlawrence/index.aspx Decision Research and Experimental Economics, Centre for (CeDEx) Url http://www.nottingham.ac.uk/cedex/index.aspx Economic Development and International Trade, Centre for Research in (CREDIT) Url http://www.nottingham.ac.uk/credit/index.aspx Enterprise and Innovation, Haydn Green Institute for (UNIEI) Url http://www.nottingham.ac.uk/business/BusinessCentres/HGI/index.aspx EPSRC Centre for Innovative Manufacturing in Food Url http://www.manufacturingfoodfutures.com/manufacturingfoodfutures/index.aspx EPSRC EngD Centre in Efficient Fossil Energy Technologies Url http://www.engineering.nottingham.ac.uk/efet/ EPSRC Future Composites Manufacturing Hub Url http://cimcomp.ac.uk/ ESRC Doctoral Training Centre Url https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/esrc-dtc/home-page.aspx Experimental Medicine, Metabolic and Nutritional Physiology Url https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/research/groups/experimental-medicine-metabolic-and-nutritional-physiology/home.aspx Facility Managers Group Url https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/research/groups/facilitygroup/index.aspx Finance and Credit Markets, Centre for (CFCM) Url http://www.nottingham.ac.uk/economics/cfcm/ Food Systems Institute Url https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/science/schools-centres-and-institutes/food-systems-institute/index.aspx Forensic and Family Psychology, Centre for Url http://www.nottingham.ac.uk/research/groups/cffp/index.aspx GeoEnergy Research Centre Url http://www.gerc.ac.uk/geoenergyresearchcentre.aspx Healthcare Technologies, Centre for Url http://www.healthcaretechnologies.ac.uk/ Horizon Digital Economy Institute Url http://www.horizon.ac.uk/ Human Rights Law Centre Url http://www.nottingham.ac.uk/hrlc/ Ideas and the Study of Political Ideologies, Centre for Research into Url https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/crispi/index.aspx Identities, Citizenship, Equalities and Migration Centre Url https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/icemic/index.aspx Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Centre for (CLABS) Url http://www.nottingham.ac.uk/clabs/index.php Displaying 1 to 30 of 71 Previous 1 2 3 Next

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/jobs/home.aspx:
Find your career with us.
Discover your career
The world of the University of Nottingham is defined by our people and the values we share.
Our environment is an ambitious vision brought to life across vibrant and forward-thinking global campuses.
An ever changing world where open minds and diverse cultures are able to learn, challenge and create.
The success of our university is down to our amazing people and at Nottingham we offer more than just a job.
We build strong teams and believe in supporting each other.
We respect and are respected, with a pioneering spirit that is world-renowned.
We are a university without borders.
Change starts here, and the future looks like you.
Let’s build something great, together.
Many of our roles offer hybrid working.
Our supportive and flexible environment allows you to thrive to reach all of your goals, both professional and personal.
Competitive rates of pay, generous pension, substantial annual leave, reward schemes and discounts.
We aim to give you all the support you need to nurture your talent, develop and reach your professional goals and personal career goals.
Our university is a supportive, inclusive, caring and positive community.
We warmly welcome those of different cultures, ethnicities and beliefs – indeed this very diversity is vital to our success, it is fundamental to our values and enriches life on campus.
Delivering world-class research and education leadership.
Join a community, our community of defiant pioneers.
Make everything happen, from supporting the faculties, sports, student assistance, IT, finance, marketing, and much more, you'll play a crucial role in the life of the university.
Join the experts delivering the research and supporting teaching, we are looking for technical specialists across the university.
Whether it’s facilities, catering or security, our operations and facilities staff are integral to keeping the university running.
Passionately leading others to a world beyond ordinary, you could join our senior staff in shaping the future of our university.
We have a number of funded studentships in postgraduate research areas that align to our research interests and expertise.
We are a truly international organisation with a strong focus on excellence, founded on a vision that education and research can make a transformative difference to peoples lives.
Our diverse network of pioneering campuses and partnerships welcome collaborators to continue shaping the future of our world.
The university also places a special emphasis on environmental sustainability, supporting the City of Nottingham’s desire to be a net zero carbon city by 2028 and working with partners in China and Malaysia to improve sustainability within their regions.
This is a place where rich minds and diverse cultures are able to learn, challenge and create.
Join our warm, family-like community who value the strength of working together to achieve common goals.
Whatever part you play, our reputation is built on the impact you make.
Our people excel because they enjoy a culture of balance in their working lives.
It’s important to give it your all, but we understand that to do this, you need flexibility and support to excel in your personal lives too.
From career progression to personal mentoring, you’ll get all the support you need to fulfil your goals whilst keeping your inner-self in peak condition.
We recognise that wellbeing at work is really important in ensuring you reach your full potential.
We offer a wide range of wellbeing support, services and events.
Annual leave starting at 26 days, plus bank holidays, plus 5 University Closure days.
We offer staff access to quality child care services, provided by the university's child care services located on campus.
We offer highly attractive pension scheme with a flexible payment contribution based on job level.
We have a large number of courses run by our internal Professional Development team, helping you develop your skills at work.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/jobs/howtoapply/index.aspx:
Once you have seen a vacancy that you are interested in, you will need to complete an online application and we have a set of guides and resources to make this easy for you.
At the University of Nottingham we use an online application system.
To make an online application, please follow the 'apply online' button at the bottom of the advertisement.
This will take you to a login page within our application system, where:
*Due to the data protection law, our system stores your data for up to 12 months.
Once you have registered and logged into the application form, you will see a number of sections that you will need to complete.
To find out more about our application process, follow ‘ understanding our application process ’ guide, where we explain our two different types of application routes and what are we looking to see in your responses.
In addition, you can read our tips for completing an application within ‘ writing your application ’ guide.
Our online application process gives you the option to:
This allows the selection panel to focus solely on the evidence you have provided in relation to your knowledge, skills and experience for the role.
The University of Nottingham is proud to be a Disability Confident Committed (Level 1) employer .
Increasing the diversity of our employee community is extremely important to us and we are committed to the aims of the Disability Confident Scheme.
We understand that some candidates may face barriers applying for the job online and we are happy to discuss reasonable adjustments to help you make an application for a job.
Please contact our HR Recruitment Team, Email: hr@nottingham.ac.uk telephone +44 (0)115 748 4800 to discuss further.
As part of our commitment to Disability Confident, we ask all candidates (within the Equal Opportunities section of the application form) if they wish to be considered under this scheme should they meet the minimum criteria for the role.
By opting-in to this scheme, candidates will be disclosing that they have a disability solely for the purpose of the interview guarantee.
We will not assume nor infer that an applicant wishes to disclose or record their disability in any other way.
If you require any reasonable adjustments in order to attend the interview or complete any assessments required as part of the selection process, please let us know as soon as possible, ideally within your application.
The outcome of your application will be confirmed via email after the job advert closes and we aim to send communication within 2 weeks.
Sometimes it may take longer for the outcome to be confirmed, so don't worry if you don't hear from us within this time.
We will confirm the outcome to you as soon as possible.
For further information about recruitment process at the University of Nottingham please follow our ‘ Candidate guidance ’
The University of Nottingham is committed to protecting the privacy and security of your personal information.
This privacy policy explains how we collect and use your personal data during the recruitment process, in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the Data Protection Act 2018, which can be found on our Use of Personal Data and Privacy website.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/hr/services/reward-and-benefits.aspx:
From generous annual leave to top health facilities, we offer a wide range of benefits that reward our staff for their contribution to the University.
We recognise that all our staff have different priorities and lifestyles, so we make sure there are benefits to suit everyone.
As an employee, you can easily access all your benefits in one place via the University’s employee benefits platform, known as bravo.
In the meantime, you can also click here to find out more about our range of benefits, including the following topics:
A-Z of services
A-Z of policies
Forms

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/jobs/frequentlyaskedquestions/index.aspx:
Posts close at 11:59 pm midnight on the closing date, applications will not be accepted after that time.
Unfortunately, once you have submitted your application form online you cannot change your details.
If you need to change your details please use the contacts as they appear on the site.
If you have not heard from the University of Nottingham within six weeks of the closing date you should assume your application has been unsuccessful.
For every application you must ensure that you complete a separate application form and provide us with separate supporting documents.
You cannot use one application form to apply for more than one job, however, the information you complete on your initial online application will be retained for you to resubmit or alter to suit subsequent posts you apply for.
Once we receive your application on line we will send you an email to confirm receipt.
Normally, you should hear from us within six weeks regarding the outcome of your application, otherwise you should assume you have been unsuccessful.
Your referees must be able to comment on your past employment and recent work performance in relation to the post’s selection criteria.
It is advised that your most recent, direct supervisor/line manager, or if you have just completed full-time education the Head/Principal and/or Tutor’s details, is nominated as one of your referees.
Do not include family members or friends.
Please note referees' details are compulsory fields on our application form.
For all APM vacancies, referees will not be contacted until after an offer of employment is made.
For vacancies in other categories, referees may be contacted prior to interview
The University of Nottingham is an equal opportunity employer.
It is our intention to ensure that job applicants and staff are treated solely on the basis of their merits, abilities and potential, regardless of gender, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, age, socio-economic background, disability, religious or political beliefs, trade union membership, family circumstances, sexual orientation or other irrelevant distinction.
The information gathered on the form is used to assist us in monitoring the effectiveness of our policy and will not be taken into consideration for short-listing and interviewing purposes.
In accordance with the Data Protection Act 1998, the University will seek your explicit permission should it intend to process any sensitive personal data for any reason other than Equal Opportunity purposes or exercising a legal right or obligation required by law.
Sensitive data includes your racial or ethnic origin, sexual life, political beliefs, trade union membership, religious beliefs, physical or mental health and criminal offences.
If you have forgotten your password you may reset by following the "password send" procedure.
Simply follow these easy steps:
Once you have completed the process and successfully reset your password you may login using your email address and your new password.
To protect your account, follow these guidelines:
If your email address is being rejected when you try to register on this web site, this is usually because our system has identified that the email address in question already exists.
Please contact the HR Recruitment Team for assistance.
It could be that you have previously successfully registered on our system, but have either forgotten, or did not realise your registration was successful at the time.
If you think this is the case, you will simply need to reset your password to gain access to your account again.
See the FAQ on what to do if you have forgotten your password.
In order to access your online account you need to supply your email address and password so that the system can authenticate and confirm you are who you say you are and that you have access to the details you will be trying to retrieve.
Therefore, your email address and password must exactly match the information we have held in our system.
The most common reasons for not being able to login are because you have either entered your email address, password or both incorrectly.
Check to make sure that the information you supplied is correct and remember that the passwords are case sensitive.
If you know that your email address is correct and you simply can't remember your password, you may follow the procedure for reseting your password.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/jobs/contactus/index.aspx:
Thank you for your interest in working for our University.
For more information about a specific job vacancy you will find contact details listed at the bottom of the job advertisement.
If you need assistance with the job application, please contact our HR Recruitment Team quoting the job title and reference number on:
telephone : +44 (0)115 748 4800
email : hr@nottingham.ac.uk Please note that we do not accept speculative employment requests or CVs by email.
You can view current opportunities on our job page and submit application online.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/campuses/campuses.aspx:
We are proud of our award-winning campuses, both at home and abroad, and continually invest in the University's grounds, buildings and facilities.
Developing and managing the University's environment is at the heart of our values, ensuring that the student experience and environmental sustainability remain firmly on the University's agenda.
Maps and directions Campus videos and galleries
University of Nottingham AccessAble guides
One of the largest and most attractive campuses in the country, University Park is the hub of student life.
This award-winning green campus is recogised for its innovative architecture and sustainability.
This countryside location is the perfect setting for the Vet School and School of Biosciences.
The former TV studios is home to many of the University's professional services and business support departments.
Our newest campus, Castle Meadow sits in the heart of Nottingham city helping to drive forward our civic agenda.
Based in the Queen's Medical Centre, the Medical School was the first to be established in the UK in the 20th century.
As well as the Queen's Medical Centre, the University has sites at the Royal Derby Hospital and Nottingham City Hospital.
The University of Nottingham was the first foreign university to establish a campus in China when it opened Ningbo in 2004.
The University's Malaysia Campus became the first campus of a British university in Malaysia, opening in 2000.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/visit:
Attending an event?
Plan your day to get the most out of your visit.
Get in touch with a specific person or department.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/vice-chancellor/vice-chancellor.aspx:
Professor Jane Norman was appointed the eighth President & Vice-Chancellor of the University of Nottingham on 1 January 2025.
The President and Vice-Chancellor is responsible for ensuring excellence and impact across all academic areas.
This includes the delivery of an outstanding education and student experience; fostering outstanding research of global importance and deepening interaction, innovation and partnerships; inspiring an inclusive institutional culture; ensuring financial and environmental sustainability; and the fulfilment of the university’s global and civic mission.
The Vice-Chancellor works closely with the Pro-Vice-Chancellors, as well as with the Registrar, and leads the senior team in ensuring the university's overall mission is being met and that policies established by the governing and legislative bodies are being fulfilled.
A key part of the Vice-Chancellor's role is to represent the university both locally and externally to governments in the UK and overseas, to major donors and supporters, helping to raise the profile of the University of Nottingham nationally and internationally.
The Vice-Chancellor leads development activities, including fundraising and the amplification of the university's reputation and scope, both in the UK and overseas.
Professor Jane Norman graduated in Medicine from the University of Edinburgh in 1986.
She was awarded an MD by the University of Edinburgh in 1992 and trained in clinical and academic medicine in Edinburgh and Glasgow.
Prior to joining the University of Nottingham as Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Provost in December 2022 her previous roles include Regius Professor of Obstetrics and Gynaecology at the University of Glasgow (2007-2008), Director of the Edinburgh Tommy’s Centre for Maternal and Fetal Health (2008-2019), Vice Principal People and Culture at the University of Edinburgh (2013-2019) and Dean of the Faculty of Health Sciences at the University of Bristol (2019-2022).
She was an Honorary Consultant Obstetrician in the NHS in Glasgow (1995-2008) and in Edinburgh (2008-2019).
Jane is a Fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences, the Royal Society of Edinburgh, the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh and the Royal College of Obstetrics and Gynaecology.
She has served as a Non-Executive Director of University Hospitals Bristol and Weston since 2021.
In 2024, Jane was appointed to the Board of UK Research and Innovation.
For the last 30 years, Jane’s translational research programme has investigated factors responsible for the initiation of normal parturition and developed strategies for the prevention of preterm birth and stillbirth.
Much of her work had been in conducting large multicentre randomised trials for the treatment and prevention of preterm birth and stillbirth.The interventions she has tested include drugs, diagnostic and therapeutic devices, and packages of care.
She has conducted laboratory-based and preclinical studies, which demonstrated that normal and preterm parturition are both inflammatory events, and used routinely collected data to determine the optimal timing of birth for mother and baby.
Her work has informed national and international guidelines, including those by the National Institute of Health and Care Excellence (UK) and the World Health Organisation.
She has served on a variety of grant awarding panels, most recently chairing the Wellcome Trust Science Interview Panel and the National Institute for Health Research Global Groups grant panel.
She was a member of panel 1A (clinical medicine) for the 2021 UK Research Excellence Framework.
Jane was awarded the quinquennial ‘Eardly Holland Medal’ by the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists in 2020.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/Sport/Sport-Facilities/David-Ross-Sports-Village/David-Ross-Sports-Village.aspx:
The £40 million David Ross Sports Village offers an inspirational and accessible sports provision for all.
The sports village has been supported by a significant commitment from Nottingham alumnus and Carphone Warehouse founder - David Ross, taking his total support for the University beyond £10 million.
Opened in 2016, David Ross Sports Village offers world-class sports and fitness facilities that all under one roof on University Park campus.
The University of Nottingham portfolio includes the state-of-the-art David Ross Sports Village, with the largest sports hall and one of only four all-glass squash courts in the country, a dedicated archery, fencing and table tennis salle, martial arts dojo, high performance zone as well as a Sports Injury Clinic.
Find out more about the Health and Wellbeing Suite
Find out more about the High Performance Zone
The University of Nottingham has worked with leading accessibility guide AccessAble who have produced comprehensive guides for our venues.
To view all of David Ross Sports Village's accessible features, please click here .
If you have any further questions at all, please visit our FAQs page or contact Adam Lever, our Disability Sport Officer, at adam.lever@nottingham.ac.uk .
Parking charges and restrictions apply at the following times:
All visitors must pay and display using the machines or pay for parking using the RingGO app during the above times.
Visitors can make use of one free 30 minute ticket per day and all sporting participants can access one free 2 hour ticket per day.
RingGo codes
When all parking bays immediately surrounding David Ross Sports Village are occupied, pay and display users are permitted to park in any marked bay across campus (this includes areas that are sign-posted for permit only).
All guests will be required to display a valid pay and display ticket as normal.
If all visitor parking bays in our David Ross Sports Village car park and the surrounding Beeston Lane are full, customers can use the following parking options around the centre:
Customers can access David Ross Sports Village via entering the North or West entrances to University Park.
When using a Sat Nav to travel to David Ross Sports Village, please use the postcode NG7 2RJ.
_____
Buses:
Nottingham's bus network is extensive, with frequent services connecting University Park to the city centre and to destinations to the west of Nottingham including Lenton, Beeston and Chilwell.
Nottingham City Transport's (NCT) 34C runs from Nottingham City Centre onto University Park Campus, stopping outside David Ross Sports Village.
In termtimes the 34C evening and Saturday services stop at DRSV, and in university holidays the 34C runs to DRSV throughout the day Monday-Friday.
Alternatively, you can catch the NCT 36 , which runs Monday-Sunday between the City Centre and Chilwell and stops on Derby Road a short walk from DRSV.
Trent Barton buses can also be used to travel to DRSV, with indigo and i4 buses stopping closest to DRSV.
See the Trent Barton and NCT campus bus maps for more information.
Tram:
Nottingham’s tram lines provide direct links to University Park from various points around the city - including Nottingham Train Station.
The closest stop for DRSV is the University Boulevard stop.
For more information including tickets tram stops and timetables, please visit https://www.thetram.net/
Taxis:
Our front of house/reception teams can call local taxi companies to order a taxi for you.
E-bikes:
Lime has launched an e-bike rental scheme in the Nottingham City area.
Users can pick up and return Lime e-bikes from a network of designated e-bike-hire bays across the city – and there is pick up/drop off spot outside DRSV on Universitas 21 Avenue.
You can hire e-bikes through the Lime app which is available on the Apple app store or the Google Play store .
Cycling
If you want to cycle to DRSV using your own bike then there are cycle hooper outside the main entrance to the building plus additional cycle parking in the covered shelters on Universitas 21 Avenue.
Don’t forget your D lock to secure your bike while you’re using the sports facilities.
We accept card and cash payments on site at all of our sports centres, however there are no cash points on site.
The nearest cash machines to David Ross Sports Village are at the Portland Building on University Park campus and at Co-op just outside the West Entrance to University Park.
University of Nottingham Sport David Ross Sports Village University of Nottingham University Park Nottingham NG7 2RD t: +44 (0)115 74 87000 e: sport@nottingham.ac.uk
what3words : wonderfully.quench.behave
Take a 360 tour of David Ross Sports Village
We have a proud and successful track record of hosting elite teams and major events here at University of Nottingham Sport.
Our world-class facilities can be transformed to host sporting competitions and external events and can help you stage an event like no other.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/research/research.aspx:
Our campuses in the UK, China and Malaysia share a mission to deliver discoveries to shape a fairer world.
Where our innovators form partnerships to drive change and transform lives in the communities we serve and across the world.
7th
in the UK for research power
REF 2021
UK university
3000
research staff
Find a researcher
We are placed 7th in the UK for research power (REF 2021).
We deliver sustainable solutions to complex global challenges, from healthcare to future transport.
We ensure fairness and social justice are at the heart of all that we do.
Fifty years ago, Sir Peter Mansfield published the research paper that led to magnetic resonance imaging, an invention that transformed medicine.
Today, an MRI scan is estimated to take place every three seconds, helping to improve the lives of countless people around the world
We are soon to host the UK’s most powerful MRI scanner and our innovations in medical imaging continue to revolutionise understanding of brain function and human disease.
Discover more about 50 years of MRI at Nottingham
Researchers have identified key factors that influence the flavour of chocolate during the cocoa bean fermentation process.
A new study from the University of Nottingham has explored the use of fuel-free spacecraft propulsion systems and how they could be used in future space missions.
Join our researcher network and stay updated on X and LinkedIn.
Find out more about the research taking place across the university.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/research/atoz/facultyresearch.aspx:
Arts
Engineering
Medicine and Health Sciences
Science
Social Sciences
University Park Nottingham NG7 2RD +44 (0) 115 951 5151 research@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/conference/facilities/index.aspx:
Nottingham Venues is a collection of independent venues specialising in meeting and events, set in the beautiful grounds of the University of Nottingham.
By bringing together all of the University’s conferencing, hotel and event spaces under one iconic brand, we provide an unrivalled guest experience.
We are incredibly proud of our region, our city and our accessible location, which is why our icon represents the mighty oak.
A wide range of facilities for events of all sizes can be found across all three campus locations (University Park, Jubilee Campus, and Sutton Bonington) at the University of Nottingham.
Available in University vacation periods.
Campus Venues
Set within 65 acres of lakeside grounds, close to Nottingham city centre, Jubilee Conference Centre offers an innovative setting for events, along with all the comforts of a modern hotel.
Featuring contemporary interiors, natural décor, and light-filled spaces combine across versatile and modern event suites with space for up to 250 guests.
Jubilee Conference Centre
Following a multi-million pound refurbishment, East Midlands Conference Centre offers state-of-the-art meetings and events spaces, banqueting suites and magnificent, contemporary public spaces.
A leading venue in the Midlands for large events including exhibitions and gala dinners, East Midlands Conference Centre accommodates up to 1000 guests - and also offers a collection of spaces for smaller meetings and training sessions.
East Midlands Conference Centre
A stylish, eco-friendly hotel featuring 202 bedrooms located next to the modern and recently refurbished East Midlands Conference Centre .
Awarded with Best Sustainable Venue at the CHS 2017 and CHS 2019 Awards, the Orchard Hotel features 5 meeting rooms and bespoke modern décor.
When it comes to eating and drinking, there’s a brasserie style restaurant and bar to choose from that serve up the very best of local and seasonal food.
Orchard Hotel
Discounted hotel rates for the Orchard Hotel and Jubilee Conference Centre are available for staff, associates, Alumni and visitors coming to the University of Nottingham.
To book, please email Orchard.reservations@Nottinghamvenues.com or Jubilee.reservations@Nottinghamvenues.com
Alumni
In order to qualify for the alumni rate, please ensure you contact the Alumni Team for a verification code, providing your name, subject and year of study at alumni-enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk or on +44 (0)115 823 2408.
Once verification is complete, please book directly with the hotel
With new conferences being confirmed all the time you’re sure to find something that catches your eye.
We attract expertise drawn from across all academic disciplines so that academic conferences at The University of Nottingham bring together subject specialists from across the globe.
View the full events calendar rather than a list.
If you need to find out more about a past conference you can do so easily by consulting our conference archive .
This directory of our previous events includes information on the topics covered by the conference, the keynote speakers and the coordinating institutions.
Conferences at The University of Nottingham Beeston Lane The University of Nottingham NG7 2RJ
telephone: +44 (0) 115 876 0900 email: conferences@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/research/research-areas/index.aspx:
We are committed to addressing the key challenges of our age through collaborative research and partnerships that brings together academics from across subject areas.
Our five interdisciplinary Global Research Themes and our flagship institutes draw upon our university’s strengths: our ability to focus the depth and range of our research, international and business partnerships and, not least, the inspirational people who are dedicated to driving innovation that will ultimately change lives.
The National Rehabilitation Centre (NRC) in partnership with Nottingham Hospital University Trust (NUH) and Loughborough University are working together it will to help transform outcomes for people who have encountered life-changing injury, trauma, or illness.
At the NRC, research, innovation, education, and training will be fully integrated with clinical practice.
The partnership is uniquely placed to pioneer international research into clinical rehabilitation and rehabilitation products and technologies and attract experts in the field.
In an increasingly connected, fast-changing world, we are faced with complex questions about identity, diversity and a sense of belonging.
By understanding how we communicate, and how our cultural identities are formed, we can address these challenges and better understand our place in the world and how we relate to those around us.
Understanding the role of creative, cultural and heritage industries within society to provide new insights.
The world’s largest group of rights and justice scholars.
Histories, stories and the value of cultural research
Urgent political, social, environmental and economic challenges confront us all.
The scale of these challenges demand future-proof responses that can be sustained.
Our interdisciplinary approach and globally recognised expertise will help to inform research agendas, shape policy and create new ways of living to allow societies to flourish in the face of adversity.
Disruptive world class research on ecological transitions in diverse societies.
Solving global water challenges for generations to come.
Exploring and improving public policy for policymakers, practitioners and the public.
How will societies adapt to a changing world?
Developing holistic solutions across transport, mobility and cities to co-create future cities.
Better understanding of mathematics and computing can help deliver incredible new technologies and unpick issues of vast complexity and scope.
By bringing together expertise from science, engineering, social sciences and the arts, we can use data more effectively to model behaviours, find solutions and make decisions that will have a positive impact on lives across the globe.
Tackling the challenges of complex data analysis for strong societal impact.
Delivering digital technology to place patients at the heart of healthcare.
Enhancing therapeutics to meet clinical need.
How we're using 3D printing to create structures with biological uses.
Promoting interdisciplinary research collaborations to improve health and wellbeing.
Harnessing diverse expertise to develop life-saving technology.
It has a huge impact on how we live now and in the future.
By focusing our multidisciplinary expertise across areas such as quantum systems, advanced manufacturing, and molecular materials, we will develop and deliver novel technologies that will benefit societies and truly transform the world we live in.
Supporting UK manufacturing through innovation and collaboration.
World class cross-disciplinary research delivering innovative molecular materials.
The second quantum revolution has started.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/researcher-academy:
Advocating for a research culture that recognises the diversity of researchers' experiences and aspirations.
Acting as a catalyst for ground-breaking achievement and connecting researchers with the resources they need.
Developing creative partnerships to advance extraordinary researchers who contribute to society and the world.
Our dedicated SharePoint contains a wealth of resources for postgraduate researcher, research-only staff', and those who support them.
University of Nottingham Highfield House, University Park Nottingham, NG7 2RD
UON researchers and staff contact form Follow us on social media: YouTube | LinkedIn

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness:
This is the place to collaborate, innovate, and grow your business
Let us help you grow your business to enter new markets, reach new customers and boost sales.
Discover financial support to help you work with our world-class academics, graduates and facilities.
Unlock your potential with training, executive education and degree apprenticeships.
Recruit our students and graduates and bring fresh thinking to your business.
Base your business here, host your meetings and events, and access cutting-edge equipment.
Find out how you can support our students and research to help change the world.
A to Z of business services
Case studies
Keep up-to-date with events, news, and opportunities across the university
Sign up for the Business Network newsletter
Read the latest news

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studentservices/welcome/index.aspx:
Here’s everything you need to know as a new student, from getting your results through to arrival, getting involved in new student activities and settling in to life on campus.
Wherever you’re coming to us from, we want your first few days, weeks and months at the University of Nottingham to be as brilliant as possible.
We're here to support you every step of the way.
Monday 22 to Friday 26 September
Essential tasks to do as a new student.
From what to pack to where to shop, prepare for life at a UK university.
Your induction timetable and all the information you need to prepare for your course.
Access to academic timetables, maps and library account.
Services and support to help you settle in to life in Nottingham.
When and how to get here.
Welcome Week is your chance to find out all that the university has to offer, with Students' Union fairs to introduce you to societies and sports clubs and a range of events to help you make friends and settle in.
It can also be overwhelming, with course inductions to attend and lots of new people and places to get to know.
If you're after a quieter experience or need to take a moment to breathe, take a look at our relaxed Welcome activities.
Our full programme of events for everyone to enjoy.
Events to help you settle in to life in the UK.
Check out our Instagram pages @ uniofnottingham and @ uonstudentnews to connect with other students, get tips on starting university, and to stay up to date with what's happening on and around campus.
Once you're here, join in on the fun by sharing your snaps and tagging @uniofnottingham #WeAreUoN.
A post shared by UoN Student News (@uonstudentnews)
A post shared by University of Nottingham (@uniofnottingham)

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/why-study/employability.aspx:
Join the UK's top university for graduates entering highly skilled jobs*
More University of Nottingham graduates enter highly skilled employment than any other UK university.
In fact, we’ve held the top spot for the past five years.*
Your success after graduation is just as important to us as your time on campus.
That’s why we’re committed to empowering you to achieve your dreams, whatever they may be.
Our degrees do more than deliver subject knowledge.
They help you build real-world skills, unlock unlimited career opportunities, and thrive in life.
You’ll gain the experiences and connections you need to be work-ready and confident in your next steps.
A limitless career awaits you, with expert careers advice for life, we're always here when you need us.
* HESA Graduate Outcomes survey publications 2021–2025 for full-time, UK, UG and PG graduates.
Graduates entering highly-skilled jobs HESA Graduate Outcomes, 2025
In the UK for top employers
The Graduate Market, High Fliers, 2024
Best UK university for work experience
Rate my Placement, 2025
For decades, leading businesses have been coming to us to find their newest recruits.
We are the third most targeted UK university by the country's top companies - and we've been in the top 10 since 2013 ( The Graduate Market report 2024, High Fliers Research ).
With connections to countless global and UK organisations, it's no wonder our graduates are sought after by some of the world's biggest companies, including:
JP Morgan, ASOS, Unilever, PepsiCo, Walt Disney Company, GSK and Deloitte.
From internships and placements to recruitment fairs and access to top graduate jobs, we’ll help you build real-world skills and unlock your limitless potential.
We can help you gain practical, hands-on workplace experience - from a built-in or optional placement year to our Nottingham Internship Scheme, employer-led projects and part-time job opportunities.
With alumni and industry insight sessions and employer introduction events, we can help you to get career-ready, whatever path you choose.
Work experience opportunities
Our professional careers advisors are here to support you at every step - a service we are proud to offer for life.
Whether that's career planning, navigating graduate recruitment opportunities and employer testing programmes or honing your interview skills, we are always here to help - whenever the time is right for you.
Meet our careers service
Our careers services are available to everyone.
We provide specialist resources to boost international students' job prospects, including those studying for master's degrees.
From identifying UK employers that sponsor and hire, to clarifying Visas and connecting with alumni - we'll support you to succeed in both UK and international jobs markets.
Discover our support services
Explore our services
We can help you gain valuable industry experience through an optional placement year.
No matter what you’re studying, you can build one into your degree.
Develop new skills and gain experience that will make you stand out from the crowd with our free scheme designed to prepare you for the job market.
Our postgraduate students and early career researchers get access to the Researcher Academy, with dedicated facilities, training courses and placements.
Connect with our 350,000-strong global alumni network and discover insights, resources and support to help you fuel your learning.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/facts/rankings-and-achievements.aspx:
At the University of Nottingham, we're not just a place of learning; we're a powerhouse of change.
An award-winning university with an international outlook, we're proud to be ranked among the Top 20 in the UK and in the world's Top 100 (QS World University Rankings 2026).
A member of the prestigious Russell Group of world-class, research-intensive universities, we deliver teaching excellence and equip our graduates to go further, faster.
In fact, we're the number one UK university for graduates entering highly skilled employment.*
With a commitment to ground-breaking research and an unparalleled student experience, we're shaping the future on a global scale.
* HESA Graduate Outcomes publications 2021–2025 (full-time, UK, UG and PG graduates 2019-2023)
QS Best Student Cities 2026
QS World University Rankings: Sustainability 2025
We’re proud to be ranked among the world’s Top 200 universities in the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2025, recognising our commitment to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
We achieved Top 100 placements for four goals : SDG 8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth, SDG 11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities, SDG 12 – Responsible Consumption and Production, and SDG 17 – Partnerships for the Goals.
This recognition highlights our dedication to creating a better future through pioneering research, transformative education and global collaboration.
Read more about our commitment to the SDGs
We’re the third most targeted university by top employers (The Graduate Market, High Fliers 2024), and have been Top 10 since 2013.
Our students rate us the 7th best university in the UK for work experience (Rate my Placement, Best Universities for Work Experience, 2025).
Boost your career potential
We have been crowned Sports University of the Year three times in the last seven years, most recently in 2024 (The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide).
We are also proud to be the Top UK University for Team Sport (British Universities and Colleges Sport - BUCS).
Be part of the team
Nottingham University Business School has solidified its reputation as a global education leader earning top rankings in finance, international trade, and other key disciplines.
Discover our business excellence
A thriving city with a legendary past, we're proud to call one of the best student cities in the UK our home (49th in the world and 8th of the UK cities featured, QS Best Student Cities 2026).
A great place to live
Join the University of Nottingham and be taught by academics who are leaders in their field, while enjoying a student experience that’s rated among the very best in the country.
Why students choose us
Rankings results
QS Sustainability Rankings 2025
13
36
17
97
QS World University Rankings: Europe 2025
15
24
The Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2024
16
136
The StudentCrowd Best University Campus and Facilities 2025
The Daily Mail University Guide 2026
28
N/A
The Complete University Guide 2026
26
The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024
30
The Guardian University Guide 2024
Financial Times Masters in Finance 2024
10
In the 2021 Research Excellence Framework (REF) – the UK's official assessment of the quality of research in UK higher education institutions – we have been placed 7th in the UK for research power, according to analysis by Times Higher Education (THE).
100% of our research is recognised internationally, and 90% is classed as 'world-leading' or 'internationally excellent', according to THE's analysis.
Discover our world-changing research
In 2003, our leading academic Sir Peter Mansfield was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Paul Lauterbur 'for their discoveries concerning magnetic resonance imaging' (MRI).
Today, it is estimated that an MRI scan takes place every 3 seconds, improving outcomes for millions around the world.
We are continuing to push the boundaries of MRI and have recently been awarded £29.1 million to establish the UK’s most powerful Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scanner as a national facility.
This scanner will give researchers and doctors unprecedented insights into brain function and the mechanisms of human disease.
Learn more about the history of MRI
Nottingham Technology Ventures has helped to support a wide range of businesses get off the ground and supported their development.
As of June 2024, we have 35 active spin-out companies - technological innovations developed from our research.
Bringing business and research together
At the University of Nottingham, we take sustainability seriously.
We actively address the complex challenges facing our planet and are committed to making significant contributions to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
We’re proud to be recognised among the world’s top higher education institutions for our efforts, ranking in the Top 200 in the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2025.
These global rankings evaluate 2,526 universities from 130 countries based on their performance against the United Nations’ 17 Sustainable Development Goals, which set out a blueprint for creating a more sustainable future.
Our world-leading research places us within the world’s Top 100 for a number of individual SDG goals:
While there is still a long road ahead, these results show our unwavering dedication to the SDGs and our commitment to creating a better future for all through pioneering research and education.
This is the place making the sustainable obtainable.
Find out more about our commitment to the goals

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/sustainable-development-goals/index.aspx:
Building a fairer world for all
Our researchers deliver solutions to complex problems and work with partners in the UK and across the world to ensure our innovations have transformative impact on people’s lives.
Our teaching is informed by the SDGs.
We inspire our students to be globally-engaged citizens, equipped with the skills and knowledge to make a difference.
We work hard to help make such opportunities accessible to all.
We engage with the communities we serve, sharing knowledge and experience and working together to strengthen resilience, wellbeing and opportunity.
We strive to make our award-winning campuses green, pleasant places to work and learn, and environmental stewardship informs every aspect of the university’s operations.
End poverty in all its forms everywhere
End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture
Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages
Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all
Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls
Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all
Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all
Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all
Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation
Reduce inequality within and among countries
Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable
Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns
Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts
Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development
Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss
Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels
Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development
The Sustainable Development Goals were adopted by the United Nations in 2015 as a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure that by 2030 all people enjoy peace and prosperity.
Download our report to discover how we're tackling each of the UN SDGs
100 ways to change the world

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/research/ref:
We are placed seventh in the UK for research power according to analysis by Times Higher Education
1,804
We submitted 1,804 researchers to our 2021 REF return
135
We have 135 case studies evidencing our impact on lives across the world
Results from the 2021 Research Excellence Framework (REF2021) reaffirmed the University of Nottingham as among the best universities in the UK for the strength of our research.
According to analysis by Times Higher Education , the university improved its placing in each of the three key measures determined by REF – Research Power, Research Intensity and Grade Point Average (GPA).
Of the 157 institutions participating in REF2021, the university placed 7 th in the UK for Research Power, which takes into account a combination of the quality of our research, its international impact, critical mass and sustainability.
It placed 25 th in the UK for Grade Point Average (GPA) – an improvement from 26 th place in REF2014.
Our own analysis using THE methodology placed the University 24 th in the UK for Research Intensity adjusted GPA, which takes into account the proportion of eligible staff returned – an improvement from 28 th place in REF2014.
*According to analysis by Times Higher Education .
*According to our own analysis.
Explore our impact case studies submitted to REF2021 and view other universities' research impact.
Visit the REF impact database
Discover how our research changes lives and shapes the future
The Research Excellence Framework is a national assessment of the quality of research in UK higher education institutions and determines the allocation of around £2 billion quality-related funding a year, starting in August 2022.
The Research Excellence Framework:
The next REF will take place in 2028, with results announced in Winter 2029.
Changes to REF2029 were developed through the Future Research Assessment Programme (FRAP) commissioned by the UK Funding Bodies.
The three assessed elements have been reshaped to support a broader assessment of research excellence, and the weightings of the elements has been revised to increase the emphasis on people, culture and environment.
The new elements will be:
Contribution to Knowledge and Understanding – based on numbers of research active staff and their outputs (journal articles, performances, edited books etc.
(50%)
Engagement and Impact – demonstrating the difference our research has made to culture, economy, health and society (25%)
People, Culture and Environment – research ecosystem and infrastructure; strategies and mechanisms that support/enable research and impact (25%)
Find out more about REF2029 here
Personal data provided to the University of Nottingham (UoN) for the purposes of evidencing research impact or environment, as part of the REF2029 assessment, will be held only for the duration of the REF2029 assessment.
Once the assessment period is complete (at the end of December 2028) any personal data is anonymised and deleted from UoN systems.
The lawful processing purpose relied on is Public Task.
Information will be shared beyond the university with UK Higher Education funding bodies as per the data collection statement
Understand how the university processes personal data
It is a requirement that every institution making a REF submission needs to develop, document and apply a code of practice for REF2029, including:
the fair and transparent identification of staff with significant responsibility for research where a higher education institute (HEI) is not submitting 100% of eligible staff
determining who is an independent researcher
the selection of research outputs
Our REF2029 CoP is currently under development and will build on the CoP we submitted for REF2021.
The finalised document will be published here in 2026.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/news/fit-test-study:
The data from the study, which is led by Professor David Humes in the School of Medicine and supported by the National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR), will now be used to look at whether this certain test could be used to test for other types of diseases, as well as bowel cancer.
Bowel cancer is the third most common cancer and second highest cause of cancer death in the UK.
This new study, published in the journal Lancet Primary Care , looked at FITs (faecal immunochemical tests).
FITs are used by GPs to detect microscopic traces of blood in people’s poo who have symptoms of bowel cancer (colorectal cancer).
If the test is ‘negative’, then the risk of bowel cancer is very low and no further tests are needed.
“There has been a huge increase in the number of FITs being done each year but there are many other reasons why someone might have a 'positive' result,” says Dr Francesca Malcolm, a Clinical Research Fellow in Colorectal Surgery and NIHR Doctoral Fellow in the School of Medicine at the University and lead author of the study.
Research from bowel cancer screening has linked a 'positive' FIT with an increased risk of dying from diseases other than bowel cancer.
No studies have looked at whether this is the case in patients having FIT for symptoms of bowel cancer.
“We have done the first study looking into the risk of death in patients who have had a ‘positive’ FIT with symptoms of bowel cancer,” adds Dr Malcolm.
The team used anonymous data which was collected from nearly 50,000 patients living in Nottingham between 2017 and 2022 who had a FIT due to symptoms of bowel cancer.
In the year following a FIT due to bowel cancer symptoms, 1,971 (4%) patients died.
The full study can be found here .
More information is available Dr Francesca Malcolm in the School of Medicine at francescaligori.malcolm@nottingham.ac.uk
Notes to editors:
About the University of Nottingham
Ranked 97 in the world and 17th in the UK by the QS World University Rankings , the University of Nottingham is a founding member of Russell Group of research-intensive universities.
Studying at the University of Nottingham is a life-changing experience, and we pride ourselves on unlocking the potential of our students.
We have a pioneering spirit, expressed in the vision of our founder Sir Jesse Boot, which has seen us lead the way in establishing campuses in China and Malaysia - part of a globally connected network of education, research and industrial engagement.
Nottingham was crowned Sports University of the Year by The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024 – the third time it has been given the honour since 2018 – and by the Daily Mail University Guide 2024 .
The university is among the best universities in the UK for the strength of our research, positioned seventh for research power in the UK according to REF 2021 .
The birthplace of discoveries such as MRI and ibuprofen, our innovations transform lives and tackle global problems such as sustainable food supplies, ending modern slavery, developing greener transport, and reducing reliance on fossil fuels.
The university is a major employer and industry partner - locally and globally - and our graduates are the third most targeted by the UK's top employers, according to The Graduate Market in 2024 report by High Fliers Research.
We lead the Universities for Nottingham initiative, in partnership with Nottingham Trent University, a pioneering collaboration between the city’s two world-class institutions to improve levels of prosperity, opportunity, sustainability, health and wellbeing for residents in the city and region we are proud to call home.
More news…

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/news/royal-society-medal-for-scientists-work-to-engage-girls-with-physics:
Professor Clare Burrage from the School of Physics and Astronomy has been awarded the Royal Society Rosalind Franklin Award and Lecture, for her achievements in theoretical cosmology and her proposed project which aims to inspire and engage girls of all ages with physics.
She is among 27 Royal Society medal and award winners announced today for their outstanding contributions to scientific discovery, public engagement and research culture.
Professor Burrage’s research explores our ability to detect dark energy – new forces and particles that make up 70 per cent of the universe – and bring greater understanding of what this means for well-known, but flawed, theories on gravity.
Alongside her research Professor Burrage is also undertaking a two year project to show girls of all ages how fun and accessible Physics can be, and to support girls who have chosen to study Physics at A-Level to further their interests and make connections with female peers outside their (male dominated) classroom.
In the UK, Physics remains an overwhelmingly male discipline.
In 2025, only 24% of A-Level Physics entrants were female, and this underrepresentation persists across the sector; only 22% of working Institute of Physics (IoP) members are female.
At school Physics is often perceived as difficult and boring, and many students don’t have access to a specialist teacher (e.g.
in 2022 the number of Physics teachers recruited in England was 17% of the government’s target).
Combined with prevalent stereotypes that Physics is a subject ‘for boys’, the subject can be unappealing to many girls.
The project will support the ‘I’m a Physicist’ Girl Guiding badge, created by Girl Guiding Nottinghamshire and the Institute of Physics East Midlands branch in 2019.
This badge introduces girls from ages 5-18 to the fascinating world of Physics and the project will provide materials and trained volunteers to support the activities needed to obtain this badge, including carrying out experiments and meeting professional physicists.
The popular Physics work experience week at the University will also be expanded to ensure more girls can access this hugely popular event.
There will be an expanded in-person programme and a new online version to provide greater opportunities for girls to get involved.
Sir Adrian Smith, President of the Royal Society, said: “The recipients of this year’s medals and awards have all made outstanding contributions to science and its applications for the benefit of humanity.
“They have done so by furthering our understanding of the processes that govern the world around us, changing the practices of academia to build a more robust and inclusive research environment, and engaging new audiences.
“Celebrating these diverse contributions is core to the Society’s mission and I offer my congratulations to all the 2025 recipients.”
More information is available from Professor Clare Burrage on Clare.Burrage@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/news/kiss-goodbye-to-deadly-disease-new-research-finds-antibodies-for-killer-parasite:
Scientists from the University of Nottingham have revealed the three-dimensional structure of the TcPOP protein, which is passed to people’s blood by the the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi , carried by the triatomine or “kissing bug.” Their results have been published in Nature Communications.
Chagas disease (CD) is a ticking time-bomb for health systems around the world.
It is one of the most neglected tropical diseases with an annual incidence of 56,000 cases and about 12,000 deaths.
Seven million people are estimated to be infected worldwide, and a further 140 million individuals are at risk.
Trypanosoma cruzi infections are life-long and around one third of chronically infected Chagas patients will develop severe life-threatening complications, including heart failure and sudden cardiac death, often decades after the initial infection.
The research team have isolated, produced and characterised the first parasite-blocking (neutralising) antibodies against two key T.
cruzi proteins, TcPOP and Tc24 showing that in both cases neutralisation strikingly exceeds 95% and those antibodies target the parasite infective stage, which is key for vaccine development.
Using cutting-edge single-particle cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM), Dr Ivan Campeotto's group at the University of Nottingham captured TcPOP in both open and closed conformations.
They discovered that the protein behaves like a microscopic "Pac-Man," degrading collagen on human cells to allow the parasite to invade and hide, thereby evading immune detection and enabling long-term persistence in the host.
“These results are a game-changer for Chagas research," said Dr Ivan Campeotto, lead researcher at the School of Biosciences.
To produce sufficient quantity of TcPOP for structural studies, Campeotto’s team used large biofermenter in the School of Biosciences to express the protein in bacterial cells.
This high purity protein was then used to immunise mice in collaboration with Prof.
Lea Barfod (University of Copenhagen), leading to the isolation of potent antibodies which were tested in cell-invasion experiments in collaboration with Prof.
John Kelly at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical medicine (LSHTM).
These antibodies kill (neutralise) parasites through two distinct mechanisms: a rapid “burst” effect within minutes, or a slower process (~30 min) by binding to the “feeding pocket”, or flagellar pocket, likely disrupting nutrient uptake and leading to starvation.
Dr Campetto adds: “These are the first-ever neutralising antibodies identified against TcPOP and the first neutralising against this parasite, highlighting its potential as vaccine candidate to stimulate natural immunity in humans, or as a source for direct therapeutic antibodies to threat or prevent infections.
"Additionally, since TcPOP is secreted into the bloodstream, these antibodies hold potential for diagnostic applications, particularly in detecting congenital transmission from mother to foetus, a major route of infection that affects thousands of newborn annually.
This is something we plan to explore further in future studies.”
More information is available from Dr Ivan Campetto on Ivan.Campetto@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/news/new-study-reveals-what-skin-temperature-tells-us-about-human-comfort:
A new study by experts from the University of Nottingham’s Faculty of Engineering shows that skin temperature, particularly at the face and hands, is closely tied to how comfortable or uncomfortable a person feels.
Their findings have been published in the journal Energy and Built Environment.
Research in this area has been scattered and inconsistent, but this new study unites findings from 172 different studies since 2000, offering the most comprehensive analysis to date on the link between skin temperature and thermal sensation.
The researchers identified areas on the body that are not only highly sensitive to temperature changes but also easy to monitor, making them especially useful for real-world applications.
The researchers also found that local cooling - such as on the back or chest - can significantly improve comfort, while local heating has much less impact.
This distinction has important implications for building climate control and personalised comfort technologies.
The study also highlights key demographic differences.
Older adults, for example, tend to be less sensitive to warmth, potentially putting them at higher risk of overheating.
Gender-related variations were also found, many studies report that women are more temperature sensitive across different environments, though findings are not always consistent.
Climate background matters too - people from warmer regions respond to temperature differently than those from cooler ones, suggesting a need for more tailored approaches to thermal comfort.
The Nottingham team have also carried out feasibility research into using video cameras combined with deep learning to be able to predict people’s comfort levels.
This research offers a foundation for developing integrated, multi-parameter approaches to support more energy-efficient and intelligent built environments.
With the rise of AI, researchers are increasingly using machine learning to predict comfort levels from physiological signals such as skin temperature, reducing reliance on subjective surveys.
This is especially useful for groups who cannot reliably express their comfort needs f or example, elderly individuals, young children or people with dementia .
Dr Calautit continues: “This study lays the groundwork for smarter, more inclusive, and preventative approaches to managing thermal environments, helping reduce health risks and improve comfort for all.”
More information is available from Dr John Calautit on John.Calautit@nottingham.ac.uk , Wenjie Song on Wenjie.song@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/events/events-all.aspx:
The listing below shows all events taking place across the University.
You may also browse:

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/home/featureevents/2025/breast-cancer-putting-older-people-first.aspx:
This lecture will focus on a pioneering research programme dedicated to improving the understanding and treatment of primary breast cancer in older adults, a population often overlooked in cancer care and clinical studies.
Older age is the most important risk factor for cancer; yet, older people often do not receive optimal treatments.
The Nottingham research programme on primary breast cancer in older people is a unique resource for addressing this challenge.
So far, it is the only one of its kind reported in the literature.
In this engaging public lecture, speakers will explore the origins of this research initiative, highlight key findings, and discuss future directions aimed at enhancing the care and outcomes of older people diagnosed with breast cancer.
This lecture is part of our monthly Science Public Lecture series - everyone is welcome to join!

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/home/featureevents/2025/future-makers-space-lab.aspx:
Join us on Saturday 18 October for Future Makers: Space Lab, a free and inspiring event that delves into the wonders of space exploration and science.
Perfect for curious minds aged 14+, but open to all ages, this public event is part of the Science in Residency programme, funded by Arts Council England and led by University of Nottingham researchers Associate Professor Jez Turner and Assistant Professor Chantal Cappelletti.
Throughout the day, visitors will have the chance to:
Whether you're passionate about the cosmos or just curious about what lies beyond our planet, Future Makers: Space Lab offers a thought-provoking experience that will spark imagination and insight into space science.
Free entry – no booking required!

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/structure/professionalservices/professionalservices.aspx:
Professional Services provide the infrastructure that helps the University of Nottingham run effectively.
Each of these services works to support research and teaching across the institution, directly or otherwise.
Campaign and Alumni Relations Office (CARO) : our Fundraising and Alumni Relations department that secures and mobilises funding, volunteering and advocacy, part of Finance and Infrastructure.
Estates and Facilities : part of the Finance and Infrastructure team, Estates and Facilities are responsible for property and facilities management, transport, environment, catering and accommodation
Finance and Infrastructure : as well as core financial support for the University, this unit includes Research and  Innovation, the Researcher Academy, Procurement, Internal Audit, Estates and Facilities and Digital and Technology Services
Human Resources : support for current and prospective staff
Digital and Technology Services : part of the Finance and Infrastructure team, Digital and Technology Services provides support for staff and students with IT services, as well as management of key IT infrastructure
Registrar’s Department : the home of key central administrative functions of the University, such as Student Services; External Relations; Strategy, Planning and Performance; the Careers and Employability Service; and Sports

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/StudentServices/HealthWelfare/index.aspx:
The University of Nottingham recognise the importance of our students’ mental health and wellbeing.
We have a dedicated team of approximately 70 staff who are part of our Wellbeing Team working across all Schools to help you and your fellow students, with any issues or problems you might experience.
If you are having difficulties at, or outside of university, please initially arrange to speak to one of Support & Wellbeing Officers.
You can do this by clicking on 'I need some support', below.
This will take you straight through to the booking system where you can choose an appointment day and time.
We provide pro-active information about how you can take care of your mental health and information about specialist services you can access if you feel you are struggling.
View our wellbeing guide
There are no upcoming events.
Please check later

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/dts/student/student-services.aspx:
Supporting students
Guidance, advice and best practice
Get the most out of your academic experience
Stay connected and collaborative
Download, locate, repair and configure
Get set up and login to our core university systems
Staying safe and up-to-date
Need help?
We have a number of online and on-campus help channels
Get in touch with the team

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/working-here/index.aspx:
Whether you are a new member of staff, already working here or thinking of applying for a job at the University, you should be able to get all the staff related information you need from this page.
Visit the job pages for vacancies and job related information.
Working here A-Z Current jobs website
If you can't find the information you are looking for here, or if you know of a page regularly used by staff that you think should be included, please email us.
telephone: +44 (0) 115 951 5151 fax: +44 (0) 115 951 3666 email: enquiry@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/hr/your-benefits/your-wellbeing/staff-wellbeing.aspx:
The Wellbeing and Mental Health Portal offers staff access to a wide range of resources to support their mental and physical health.
It provides tools, guidance, and professional support for individuals and those supporting colleagues or students.
Our mental health first aiders provide a first point of contact for staff seeking support.
They are trained to have a good awareness of mental health to signpost staff to appropriate professional support and provide the opportunity to engage in supportive conversations.
Find your local MHFA here .
The Employee Assistance Programme provides free confidential support 24 hours a day, seven days a week, over the telephone (0800 917 9937) or on-line.
It can be accessed through the supporting yourself page on the Wellbeing and Mental Health Portal .
Our chaplains offer an independent, open listening ear for staff of any faith or none.
Their Oasis space in Portland Building is open Monday to Friday, 10.00 am - 5.00 pm and provides a safe, quiet space for students and staff to use.
The University of Nottingham is committed to fostering an inclusive culture, underpinned by our values of inclusivity, ambition, openness, fairness and respect.
We have regard for each other’s rights and feelings and demonstrate this in our behaviour, treating each other with consideration and kindness.
If, as a member of staff, you have experienced or witnessed an incident you feel does not align with these values you can report the incident via Report and Support , speak to a Dignity Advisor or contact our HR Employment Relations team .
Here are some quick links to relevant University HR policies including:
We recognise that managers and leaders are staff too and would encourage you to apply the same principles and care to your own health and wellbeing as you do to your team.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/dts:
Digital and Technology Services
We are here to help you - request IT support here
Personalised support
Guidance for students
Whether you've just joined us and are looking for best digital practice, or if you're having trouble accessing our services, contact our experts who can help you along the way
Empowering staff
Access our core systems, services and support to ensure you're equipped to succeed online, from communication with peers to online teaching and learning fundamentals
Help with research
Find out about how we can support you from developing research bids and ideas, to managing your data, through to deploying artefacts
Behind the scenes
Learn more about who's behind our global support and guidance services and our project and programme portfolio
Find our more about our teams
Popular services
Quick links to our core services
We have a number of online and on-campus help channels.
IT Service Status
Updates on our core IT services

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/alumni/newseventsandfeatures/index.aspx:
Keep up to date with your alumni community.
Learn how to lead and navigate through an uncertain world with tips from experts at our recent Live talk in London.
Our Medicine BMBS course has had a radical redesign for 2026 - learn how we’re revolutionising its teaching.
If you’re looking to nourish your mind over the summer holidays, who better to ask for inspiration than our academics?
It's been a busy month for our Sport staff, with a unique kit launch and recognition from BUCS among other highlights.
Reflections on our recent event on Jubilee campus which considered the impacts of AI on the workplace.
Find out the names of those with a connection to Nottingham recognised in the King's Birthday Honours.
If you’ve ever considered a career in the media, Hanna Flint (American and English Studies, 2009) shares how to get ahead from her 15 years in film broadcasting.
The first week of June is recognised at Volunteers’ Week in the UK and we’re celebrating all our alumni volunteering achievements!
We welcomed over 100 of you to our recent alumni networking events in New York, San Francisco and Los Angeles - find out what happened!
Take a trip to NASA’s Ames Research Center at Langley with Ivan Perez (PhD Computer Science, 2017).
From motivation questions to salary expectations, our resident careers expert Sue Mason breaks down the most common interview questions and how to tackle them with confidence.
Tariffs have returned to the spotlight in recent months, following high-profile policy shifts by the new U.S.
administration.
Dr Arijit Mukherjee, Professor of Industrial Economics, offers a clear and concise overview of the real economic effects and unintended consequences of tariff policy.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/alumni/donatenow/index.aspx:
Every year thousands of people like you donate to the University of Nottingham to make a difference to the lives of students and fund world-changing research.
Find out more below about the areas where you can make an impact.
Your donations can help a talented individual unlock their potential at the University of Nottingham.
The Cascade programme funds innovative student-led projects around the globe.
Leave a gift in your Will and support the next generation of Nottingham students.
Find out more about the incredible impact that supporters like you can have on students' lives.
Give a gift and you can help make the incredible happen, every day.
Every penny you give goes directly towards changing lives at Nottingham and around the world.
Donate now

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/utilities/privacy/privacy.aspx:
The University of Nottingham, University Park, Nottingham, NG7 2RD (0115 951 5151), is committed to protecting your personal data and informing you of your rights in relation to that data.
The University of Nottingham is registered as a Data Controller under the Data Protection Act 2018 ( registration No.
Z5654762 ) .
One of our responsibilities as a data controller is to be transparent in our processing of your personal data and to tell you about the different ways in which we collect and use your personal data.
The University will process your personal data in accordance with the UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR, GDPR) and the Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA) and this privacy notice is issued in accordance with the GDPR Articles 13 and 14.
We may update our Privacy Notices at any time.
The current version of all of our Privacy Notices can be found below, and we encourage you to check back here regularly to review any changes.
Read our privacy notices now
The University has appointed a Data Protection Officer.
Their postal address is:
Data Protection Officer, B16, Lenton Hurst, University of Nottingham, University Park, Nottingham NG7 2RD
They can be emailed at dpo@nottingham.ac.uk .
We define personal data as information relating to a live, identifiable individual.
It can also include "special categories of data", which is information about your racial or ethic origin, religious or other beliefs, physical or mental health, the processing of which is subject to strict requirements.
Similarly information about criminal convictions and offences is also subject to strict requirements.
"Processing" means any operation which we carry out using your personal data, for example obtaining, storing, transferring or deleting.
We only process data for specified purposes and if it is justified in accordance with data protection law.
Details of each processing purpose and its legal basis is given in each privacy notice listed below - please consult the one more relevant to your relationship to the University.
Unless specific time periods are given in the relevant Privacy Notice, your data will be kept in line with the University's Records Retention Schedule.
To determine the appropriate retention period for personal data, we consider the amount, nature and sensitivity of the personal data, the potential risk of harm from unauthorised use or disclosure of your personal data, the purposes for which we process your personal data and whether we can achieve those purposes through other means, and the applicable legal requirements.
If you need more detailed advice on how long your data will be kept for, please contact the data protection team .
You have the following rights in relation to your personal data processed by us:
The University will ensure you have sufficient information to ensure that you're happy about how and why we're handling your personal data, and that you know how to enforce your rights.
The University provides information in the form of privacy notices.
You can read all of our privacy notices online .
You have a right to see all the information the University holds about you.
Where data is held electronically in a structured form, such as in a database, you have a right to receive that data in a common electronic format that allows you to supply that data to a third party - this is called "data portability".
To make a request for your own information please see our Data Protection website .
If we're holding data about you that is incorrect, you have the right to have it corrected.
Please complete our Information Rights Form.
You can ask that we delete your data and where this is appropriate we will take reasonable steps to do so.
The right to erasure is a limited right, and we may not be able to agree to requests for erasure.
If this occurs, we will explain why your request is not being actioned.
If you think there's a problem with the accuracy of the data we hold about you, or we're using data about you unlawfully, you can request that any current processing is suspended until a resolution is agreed.
You have a right to opt out of direct marketing.
You have a right to object to how we use your data if we do so on the basis of "legitimate interests" or "in the performance of a task in the public interest" or "exercise of official authority" (a privacy notice will clearly state to you if this is the case).
Unless we can show a compelling case why our use of data is justified, we have to stop using your data in the way that you've objected to.
We endeavour to ensure that an opt out option is included in all electronic direct marketing.
We may use a computer program, system or neural network to make decisions about you (for example, everyone that is on a particular course gets sent a particular letter) or to profile you.
You have the right to ask for a human being to intervene on your behalf or to check a decision.
If we are relying on your consent to process your data, you may withdraw your consent at any time.
For more information on your rights, if you wish to exercise any right, for any queries you may have or if you wish to make a complaint, please contact our Data Protection Officer .
You have a right to complain to the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) about the way in which we process your personal data.
You can make a complaint on the ICO's website .
Please consult the privacy notice that best fits your relationship with the University.
Students and applicants
Staff, job applicants and others working at the University
Visitors, correspondents and prospective applicants
Visitors to our website
Alumni, supporters and friends
Subjects of photography & videography
Clinical, medical and human physiology research participants
Students and Applicants of the University of Nottingham Online (UoNO)

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/utilities/terms.aspx:
References in these terms of use to "the University", "we", "our" and "us" etc.
are references to The University of Nottingham.
This page (together with the documents referred to on it) set out the terms of use on which you may make use of the University's web-based sites or services at nottingham.ac.uk ( hereafter referred to as "sites" ) .
These terms apply to all users of, and visitors to, our sites.
Please read these terms of use carefully before you start to use our sites.
By using our sites, you indicate that you accept these terms of use and that you agree to them.
If you do not agree to these terms of use, please do not use our sites.
Due to the nature of the internet the University can't guarantee that our sites or the websites to which our sites are linked will always be available to you.
If the need arises, the University reserves the right to amend, suspend or withdraw the sites that we provide without notice.
The University will not be liable if for any reason our site or others are unavailable at any time or for any period.
If you choose, or are provided with a password or any other log in details to access any part of our sites, you agree:
The University has the right to disable any password or log in, whether chosen by you or allocated by us, at any time, if in our opinion you have failed to comply with these terms of use.
You are responsible for making all arrangements necessary for you to have access to our sites.
You are also responsible for ensuring that all persons who access our sites through your internet connection are aware of these terms, and that they comply with them.
The University is the owner or the licensee of all intellectual property rights in our sites, the technical infrastructure relating to them, and in the material published on them.
Those works are protected by copyright laws and treaties around the world.
All such rights are reserved.
Subject to the restrictions set out below, you may download, view and print material from our sites for your personal non-commercial use and for internal non-commercial circulation within your organisation.
No other use is permitted without our prior written consent.
In particular, you may not use any part of the materials on our sites for commercial purposes without obtaining our prior written consent.
You must not modify the paper or digital copies of any materials you have printed off or downloaded in any way, and you must not use any illustrations, photographs, video or audio sequences or any graphics separately from any accompanying text.
The University's status (and that of any identified contributors) as the authors of material on our sites must always be acknowledged.
No trade mark, copyright or other proprietary notices contained in or appearing on material from our site should be altered or removed in whole or in part.
The permission to reproduce material does not extend to material identified as belonging to third parties, where you must obtain the permission of the relevant owners before reproducing such material.
If you print off, copy or download any part of our site in breach of these terms of use, your right to use our sites will cease immediately and you must, at our option, return or destroy any copies of the materials you have made.
Our sites are accessed by a multitude of users and therefore have been prepared with the primary aim of providing general information for and about the University, detailing what we do and how we do it, and to support the many knowledge management and business process requirements both inside and outside of the organisation.
Although the University endeavours to ensure that this general information on our sites is accurate at the time of publication, any of the information on our sites may be out of date or incomplete at any given time.
If you believe that any information on our sites is inaccurate please let the University know and we will investigate this.
The University disclaims all liability and responsibility arising from any reliance on such general information placed on our sites by any visitor to our sites, or by anyone who may be informed of any of its contents.
Where the University makes research papers, personal commentaries, statistical analyses, corporate data and other third party material available on our sites, we do not control and do not necessarily endorse their contents or findings in any way, and we are not responsible for the accuracy or otherwise of such material.
For potential applicants to courses, information relating to specific programmes can be found in our online prospectuses.
The content may be subject to change and the University takes reasonable steps to up-date key relevant course and related fees information.
As indicated above, any inaccuracy should be brought to the attention of the University.
The material displayed on our sites is provided without any guarantees, conditions or warranties as to its accuracy.
To the extent permitted by law, we hereby expressly exclude:
Nothing in these terms of use will operate to limit or exclude our liability for death or personal injury arising from our negligence, nor our liability for fraudulent misrepresentation, nor any other liability which cannot be excluded or limited under applicable law.
The University processes information about you in accordance with our privacy policy .
By using our sites, you consent to such processing and you warrant that all data provided by you is accurate.
The data rights and responsibilities of the University, its staff and students is governed by the Freedom of Information Act 2000 and the Data Protection Act 1998.
For policy and other information see:
Further information on Freedom of Information
Further information on Data Protection
The University aims to make our sites and the material provided on them accessible to as many people as possible.
We endeavour to ensure that our sites have been tested on all commonly used browsers and on a number of screen readers, but please note that you may see inconsistencies in the presentation of pages if you are using an older or deprecated version of a browser.
Further information on accessibility .
The University believes in treating all individuals fairly and with equal respect and we would invite you to read our Equality and Diversity Policy .
You may use our sites only for lawful purposes.
You may not use our sites:
You also agree not to access without authority, interfere with, damage or disrupt any part of our sites; any equipment or network on which our sites are stored; any software used in the provision of our sites; or any equipment or network or software owned or used by any third party.
The University may from time to time provide interactive services on our sites or linked to our sites, currently this includes but is not limited to:
The University is under no obligation to oversee, monitor or moderate any interactive service we provide on our sites, and we expressly exclude our liability for any loss or damage arising from the use of any interactive service by a user in contravention of our terms of use, whether the service is moderated or not.
If you use any of the University's interactive services, your use is subject to these terms and the Posting Rules .
If you use any third party embedded content please also check their own posting rules.
Whenever you make use of a feature that allows you to upload material to our sites, or connected third-party sites, or to make contact with other users of our sites, you must comply with the standards set out in the Posting Rules .
You warrant that any such contribution does comply with those standards, and you indemnify us for any breach of that warranty.
Any material you upload to our site will be considered non-confidential and non-proprietary, and the University has the right to use, copy, distribute and disclose to third parties any such material for any purpose.
The University also has the right to disclose your identity to any third party who is claiming that any material posted or uploaded by you to our sites constitutes a violation of their intellectual property rights, or their right to privacy.
The University will not be responsible, or liable to any third party, for the content or accuracy of any materials posted by your or any other user of our sites.
The University has the right to remove any material or posting you make on our site if, in our opinion, such material does not comply with the standards set out in the Posting Rules .
You must not misuse our sites by knowingly introducing viruses, trojans, worms, logic bombs or other material which is malicious or technologically harmful.
You must not attempt to gain unauthorised access to our sites, the server on which the sites are stored or any server, computer or database connected to our sites.
You must not attack our sites via a denial-of-service attack or a distributed denial-of-service attack.
By breaching this provision, you would commit a criminal offence under the Computer Misuse Act 1990.
The University may report any such breach to the relevant law enforcement authorities and we will co-operate with those authorities by disclosing your identity to them.
In the event of such a breach, your right to use our sites will cease immediately.
The University will not be liable for any loss or damage caused by a distributed denial-of-service attack, viruses or other technologically harmful material that may infect your computer equipment, computer programmes, data or other proprietary material due to your use of our sites or to your downloading of any material posted on it, or on any website linked to it.
You should ensure that you have appropriate protection against viruses and other security arrangements in place when using the internet.
You may link to material on our sites, provided you do so in a way that is fair and legal and does not damage our reputation or take advantage of it, but you must not establish a link in such a way as to suggest any form of association, approval or endorsement on our part where none exists.
The University reserves the right to withdraw linking permission without notice.
The website/service from which you are linking must comply in all respects with the standards set out in these terms and the Posting Rules .
If you wish to make any use of material on our sites other than that set out above, please address your query to UI-Web@exmail.nottingham.ac.uk
Where our sites contain links to other sites and resources provided by third parties, these links are provided for your information only.
The University has no control over the contents of those sites or resources, and accept no responsibility for them or for any loss or damage that may arise from your use of them.
The University will determine, in our discretion, whether there has been a breach of these terms through your use of our sites.
When a breach of these terms has occurred, the University may take such action as we deem appropriate.
Failure to comply with these terms constitutes a material breach of the terms of use upon which you are permitted to use our site, and may result in our taking all or any of the following actions:
To the extent permitted by law, the University excludes liability for actions taken in response to breaches of these terms.
The responses described in these terms are not limited, and we may take any other action we reasonably deem appropriate.
Use of our sites by staff or students of the University of Nottingham will also be subject to the rules and provisions set out in the applicable University Disciplinary Procedures and Codes of Discipline.
The English courts will have exclusive jurisdiction over any claim arising from, or related to, a visit to our sites although the University retains the right to bring proceedings against you for breach of these conditions in your country of residence or any other relevant country.
These terms of use and any dispute or claim arising out of or in connection with them or their subject matter or formation (incuding non-contractual disputes or claims) shall be governed by and constructed in accordance with the law of England and Wales.
The trade marks and logos (including the University of Nottingham "castle" logo) used and displayed on our sites are our registered and unregistered trade marks or those of others.
You may not use these trade marks without our prior written permission or that of the owner(s) of the trade mark(s) in question.
The University may revise these terms of use at any time by amending this page.
You are expected to check this page from time to time to take notice of any changes the University has made, as they are binding on you.
Some of the provisions contained in these terms of use may also be superseded by provisions or notices published elsewhere on our sites.
If at any time any provision of these terms of use is or becomes invalid or illegal in any respect, such provision shall be deemed to be severed from these terms of use but the validity, legality, and enforceability of the redeeming provisions of these terms of use shall not be affected or impaired as a result.
Thank you for visiting our various sites.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/utilities/accessibility/accessibility.aspx:
This partial accessibility statement applies to the nottingham.ac.uk domain, specifically the following pages only:
This website is run by University of Nottingham.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
We’ve also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.
We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible:
If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille:
We’ll then consider your request and get back to you within 10 working days.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, please let us know by raising a request .
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
The University of Nottingham is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This website is not compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard, due to the following issues listed below.
The website contains no Skip to Content or Skip to Navigation links this fails WCAG 2.4.1 Bypass Blocks.
We aim to resolve this by Q2 2023.
Some of the link text on the site contains non-descriptive link text, meaning screen readers will be presented with no additional context behind a link.
This fails WCAG 2.4.4 Link Purpose (In Context).
Some images on some pages contain missing or incorrect alternative text.
Some of these images are also links.
This fails WCAG 1.1.1 Non-text Content and 1.4.5 Images of Text.
Video content on the site contains no captions or subtitles, this fails WCAG 1.2.2 Pre-recorded captions.
Content on the page occasionally contains empty headings.
This fails WCAG 1.3.1 Info and Relationships, 2.4.1 Bypass Blocks and 2.4.6 Headings and Labels.
Some of our PDFs and Word documents are essential to providing our services.
For example, we have PDFs with information on how users can access our services, and forms published as Word documents.
We are fixing or replacing them with accessible HTML pages.
The accessibility regulations do not require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they’re not essential to providing our services.
Any new PDFs or Word documents we publish will meet accessibility standards.
We do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations .
We are continuously reviewing accessibility on our website and have categorised this as a top issue to fix to allow for users to access our website.
We have had 10 pages audited and assessed for accessibility.
This statement details the findings of this audit.
This website was last tested on Friday 4 September 2020.
The test was carried out by HeX Productions across 10 individual content pages.
Specifically:
Issues that are present outside of these pages will not have been identified.
Testing was taken place by automated methods across the whole site along with manual testing using a range of assistive technologies through 25 defined user journeys.
In addition, we are actively reviewing and have introduced new working practices with a focus on user needs and providing inclusive content to our diverse audiences.
The University of Nottingham has invested in a Digital transformation programme which will enable us to be inclusive by design with a major website redevelopment project.
This will start to be rolled out from December 2022.
We have invested in accessibility training for our Digital Marketing Officers.
We are improving our existing media assets where required.
For example, retrospectively adding captioning to video content.
This statement was last updated on 30 November 2022.
This partial accessibility statement applies to the Prospectus 2023 sub domain of the main nottingham.ac.uk domain.
This website is run by the University of Nottingham.
The University of Nottingham is currently going through a redevelopment project for the new nottingham.ac.uk website.
To ensure deadlines are met, we have released the website with several known accessibility issues.
These issues are being addressed and will be release as a priority.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, please let us know by Raising a request .
This fails WCAG 1.1.1 Non-text Content We aim to resolve this by Quarter 3, 2023 .
We aim to resolve this by Quarter 3, 2023 .
Some elements do not have sufficient and/or suitable information for screen reader users.
This fails WCAG 2.4.4 Link Purpose (In Context), 2.4.6 Headings and Labels and 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value We aim to resolve this by Quarter 3, 2023 .
Some pages contain elements which are not navigated sequentially or in a meaningful way when using a keyboard or touch input.
This fails WCAG 2.4.3 Focus Order.
Some elements have invalid or incorrect use of WAI-ARIA roles.
This fails WCAG 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value.
Some interactive element focus states do not have sufficient colour contrast between the foreground and background.
This fails WCAG 1.4.3 Contrast (Minimum).
Some interactive elements do not have a visible indicator of focus when navigating via a keyboard.
This fails WCAG 2.4.7 Focus Visible.
Some pages are missing a skip navigation target for the bypass block mechanism to work correctly.
This fails WCAG 2.4.1 Bypass Blocks.
There are some validation errors on our pages when tested with the W3C HTML validator.
This fails WCAG 4.1.1 Parsing.
We aim to resolve this by Quarter 2 2023.Content on the page occasionally contains empty headings.
We have had 18 pages audited and assessed for accessibility.
This website was last tested on Friday 20 January 2023.
The test was carried out by HeX Productions across 18 individual content pages.
Testing was taken place by automated methods across the whole site along with manual testing using a range of assistive technologies.
This statement was last updated on 20 February 2023.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/utilities/posting-rules.aspx:
References in these Posting Rules to "the University", "we", "our" and "us", etc.
These posting rules (and the documents referred to within them) set out the terms under which you may post contributions on the University's website www.nottingham.ac.uk ("our site") and to any of the University's interactive services ("contributions") .
University users are reminded of the need to observe the University's policies on dignity , equality and diversity and the proper use of computing facilities.
Misuse of computing facilities will be dealt with in accordance with the relevant disciplinary procedures.
Disciplinary Procedures for staff
Code of Discipline for Students
Computer User Code of Practice
For any visitors to our site who are not existing staff or students at the University, please be aware that your use of our site is subject to the following:
Your use of our site means that you accept, and agree to, these Posting Rules, which supplement our terms of website use .
You must comply with the spirit of these Posting Rules as well as the letter.
The Posting Rules apply to each part of any contribution as well as to its whole.
To the extent permitted by law, the University will not be responsible, or liable to any third party, for the content or accuracy of any contributions posted by you or any other user on our site, on any third party website linked to our site or through any other interactive services associated with our site.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/governance/records-and-information-management/freedom-of-information/freedom-of-information.aspx:
The Freedom of Information Act (FOI) gives you the right to ask public authorities (including Universities) for information they hold.
Access to information helps the public make public authorities accountable for their actions and allows public debate to be better informed and more productive.
The University Of Nottingham will ensure that the service it provides for those wishing to gain access to information is simple, efficient, and effective.
The Publication Scheme provides an overview of information the University already makes available.
The University Publication Scheme is issued in line with the model publication scheme for Higher Education, issued by the Information Commissioner's Office.
Our FAQs provide information about how to make a valid FOI request as well as what information is available through our Publication Scheme
Make an FOI Request
Requests for personal information under GDPR/Data Protection Act
Forms and Information Sheets
Disclosure Log
Trent Building University of Nottingham University Park Nottingham, NG7 2RD
telephone: +44 115 951 5761 fax: +44 115 951 5739 email: registrars@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/governance/gateway.aspx:
The University of Nottingham as an exempt charity, is required to publish certain specific information on its website.
All of this information is available on the University of Nottingham website but links are provided here as required.
The University's legal name is The University of Nottingham, and the address is:
The University of Nottingham University Park Nottingham NG7 2RD
The Charter and Statutes of the University.
Following an extensive consultation process, changes to the Charter and Statutes were approved by the Privy Council and came into force on 22 July 2010.
The Trustees of the University are the members of University Council .
The University's latest Financial Statements.
Shape the future and help create a world of possibilities by making a donation or giving your time .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/utilities/cookies.aspx:
Our Privacy and Cookies policy was last updated in November 2022.
Our Privacy Policy is now on a separate page .
A cookie is a simple text file that is stored on your computer or mobile device by a website's server and only that server will be able to retrieve or read the contents of that cookie.
It allows a website to remember things like your preferences or what's in your shopping basket.
This page has a brief explanation of each type of cookie we use.
If you want more details on specific cooks, read our detailed cookie information page .
These are cookies that are required for the operation of our website.
They include, for example, cookies that enable you to log into secure areas of our website, use a shopping cart, make use of e-billing services, and interact with live chat bots.
The chat bot cookies are essential for maintaining an active conversation session and ensuring smooth communication while you browse the site.
They allow us to recognise and count the number of visitors and to see how visitors move around our website when they are using it.
This helps us to improve the way our website works, for example, by ensuring that users are finding what they are looking for easily.
These are used to recognise you when you return to our website.
This enables us to personalise our content for you, greet you by name and remember your preferences (for example, your choice of language or region).
These cookies record your visit to our website, the pages you have visited and the links you have followed.
We will use this information to make our website and any advertising arising out of it more relevant to your interests.
We may also share this information with third parties for this purpose.
Please check the 'Help' menu of your browser to learn about your cookie preferences, and how to remove cookies from your system.
The website www.allaboutcookies.org will provide you with further information about cookies.
You can block cookies by activating the setting on your browser that allows you to refuse the setting of all or some cookies.
Please note that by disallowing cookies some functionality on the site may be restricted.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/fabs/procurement/key-university-policies/policies.aspx:
Modern Slavery Act - 2024 Statement (PDF)
Modern Slavery Act - Policy (PDF)
Referral Form (Report a conflict/breach of Modern Slavery)
Financial Regulations
Ethical Framework
Anti-Bribery Policy (PDF)
Freedom of Information
Gift Acceptance Policy
Supplier Code of Conduct (PDF)
Other University Regulations and Procedures Policies can be found on the Governance webpages.
Governance
For queries please email procurement@nottingham.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/ugstudy/clearing/clearing-courses.html:
If you are an international student, we are still accepting applications.
Select the 'International students' tab below and browse our courses.
We are no longer accepting applications from UK students for Clearing 2025.
You can apply for a course in Clearing now if you have your final results.
If you are an international student and have achieved grades BBC or above, you can fill in the online enquiry form and our International Student Recruitment team will explain your options.
You can also scroll through the course list below to find a course that interests you.
As well as the undergraduate courses listed below, places on our Social Work MA course are also available in UCAS Clearing.
For guidance on international entry requirements, see our:
International foundation courses may be available at the University of Nottingham International College.
Applications for these are handled by Kaplan International Pathways .
Entry Requirements: {{item.clearingALevel ?
item.clearingALevel : item.entryRequirementsCode}}
Subjects required: {{item.clearingSubjectsRequired}}
Subjects not accepted: {{item.clearingSubjectsNotAccepted}}
IB Requirements: {{item.clearingIBRequirements}}
IB Subjects required: {{item.clearingIBSubjects}}
GCSE requirements: {{item.clearingGcseRequirements}}
IELTS requirements: {{item.clearingIeltsRequirements}}
Additional Requirements: {{item.clearingAdditionalRequirements}}
Please try a different search or change your filters

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/ugstudy/See_all_courses.html:
Copyright 2010- University of Nottingham

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/pgstudy/courses/courses.aspx:
Student Recruitment Support Hub +44 (0) 115 951 5559 Make an enquiry

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/pgstudy/courses/research-courses-explained.aspx:
A research course allows you to explore a particular topic in depth.
You will conduct a piece of original and independent research, leading to a thesis or dissertation.
MRes programmes are usually one-year full-time or two years part-time.
They combine research and taught elements with a greater focus on research than an MA or MSc course.
Most of your time will be spent working on a research project with support from your academic supervisor(s).
PhD programmes are the highest degree awarded by universities in the UK.
A PhD provides you with an opportunity to undertake a significant piece of academic research.
A PhD is a considerable commitment and, at Nottingham, it typically takes three to four years to complete one full-time, or up to six years part-time.
All our PhD programmes provide you with the opportunity to complete additional training and development to support your research and wider transferable skills.
You will complete a written thesis of up to 100,000 words, with expert support and advice from your academic supervisor(s).
You will also take a verbal examination called a viva voce where you explain your project in depth to an examination panel.
Some students choose to complete a Master of Philosophy MPhil.
This is a shorter version of a PhD and a qualification in its own right.
Research is carried out in a similar way, typically including a shorter thesis, over two years full-time or up to four years part-time.
Professional doctorates are different from traditional PhDs, in that they are more appropriate for those pursuing professional careers, rather than academic.
They also typically include some taught modules, a compulsory training element and a shorter thesis.
A Doctor of Medicine DM is professional research degree for qualified doctors.
You must be either already registered with the General Medical Council (GMC) or eligible for GMC registration to study this degree.
If you wish to complete medical research but intend to work solely in clinical settings, you should apply to study a DM.
However, if you would like to be able to work academically or complete further research within the field of medicine, we recommend you apply for a PhD.
Applicants sometimes confuse a DM with the Doctor of Medicine MD degree offered in countries such as the US and Canada.
These qualifications are not equivalent to one another.
If you want to study to become a licenced medical professional, check our undergraduate medical degrees .
Find a research programme
A studentship is a fully funded research place in a specific area.
The process is similar to applying for a job and the advert will give specific details of how to do this.
You may also need to submit a formal application for the programme.
Find a studentship
A doctoral training programme allows you to work towards your PhD alongside a group of fellow doctoral students (though you may be researching different projects).
You will benefit from high-level research and skills training, with places often funded by research councils or charitable trusts.
Each opportunity has a different application process and deadlines.
Find a doctoral training programme
While these routes do not necessarily include funding, you may be able to apply for a scholarship or other sources of funding.
You may wish to identify a specific supervisor working in your field of interest and approach them directly to discuss your research idea.
They may be able to help you with developing a research proposal and applications to secure funding.
You will still need to submit a formal application to the University.
Find an expert
You can also find out if research in your area of interest is already taking place at the University.
You would then apply directly to the relevant school, department or institute.
Find out about our research

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/online-study/online-study.aspx:
Our range of courses is always developing, and gives you the freedom to study for your degree in a way that suits you.
Our broad programme of specialist training and bespoke courses will help advance your knowledge and skills.
We offer a range of MOOCs (Massive Open Online Courses).
These are short courses you can study for free through our partners at FutureLearn.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studentservices/support/financialsupport/index.aspx:
Whether you are a prospective or current student, use this webpage to find information on our range of funding options such as bursaries, scholarships and support funds.
Information about Government funding such as the student loan company and NHS funding
Details of how to apply for scholarship and bursaries and their eligibility criteria
Details of support funds from the University for students in financial difficulty
Information and links to resources to help you manage your money better
If you’re studying abroad as part of your course, you may be eligible for our Travel (also known as Aspire) Scholarships.
Applications must be submitted in the academic year before your study abroad period is due to commence.
For those of you planning to join us at our Nottingham campuses, we’ve put together a list of possible expenses related to studying in Nottingham, as well as information on managing your money.
Living Costs in Nottingham
You must apply for Student Loans Company (SLC) funding for the current academic year within nine months of the start of the academic year.
This makes the deadline for 2024/25 funding Friday 30 May 2024 for undergraduate students who started their course in September 2024 .
Please be aware of phishing emails which can look like they have been sent from the SLC or university.
The SLC and the university will never email with you a link asking for your login or bank account details.
Please do not respond but forward the email to phishing or the University's IT Service Desk .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/student-experience/nottingham-city.aspx:
Nottingham is ranked as the 9th best city in the UK for students and 51st in the world, according to the QS Best Student Cities 2025.
Museums, theatres, art galleries, multiplex and arthouse cinemas, literature events, music festivals and venues, you'll never be short of things to do in Nottingham.
Events listing – Left Lion magazine What's on – Visit Nottinghamshire
There's dining options to suit every budget in Nottingham.
With its mix of independent and chain cafes, restaurants, delis and outdoor markets, eating out in the city is an eclectic and international adventure.
You'll find a large selection of traditional pubs and modern cocktail bars in the city.
Nottingham is home to Ye Olde Trip to Jerusalem, one of the oldest pubs in England, which is built alongside the caves of Nottingham Castle.
Named one of the best and safest places for a night out in the UK.
Nottingham has been awarded a Purple Flag award for nine consecutive years.
From clothes to comics and vintage to vinyl, small independents and retro shops nestle alongside big high street names to earn Nottingham a reputation as one of the country’s top shopping cities.
Find vintage bargains in Hockley, designer boutiques in the Exchange Arcade and your favourite high street shops in the Victoria and Broadmarsh shopping centres.
Exciting local attractions include:
Visit Nottinghamshire – Things to do in Nottingham
You can also venture further afield and experience thrills at Alton Towers theme park or explore the picturesque Peak District or Sherwood Forest - home of the Major Oak.
The city of Nottingham is home to a wide range of sports centres, including:
The city is also home to Nottingham Rugby Club and two football clubs, Nottingham Forest and Notts County Football Club.
Spectators can also enjoy international cricket at the Trent Bridge Cricket Ground.
The National Water Sports Centre is the perfect hangout for adrenaline junkies.
If you prefer something more relaxed, you can hire a canoe or rowing boat for a quiet day on the River Trent.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/why-study/index.aspx:
Transform your future by studying at a world-leading university.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/what-next/how-to-apply.aspx:
Applications for full-time undergraduate courses should be made through UCAS.
Full guidance on all aspects of applying to study with us are available on our applying pages.
There is a different process for part-time study and foundation courses.
Undergraduate applications
Foundation course applications
How to apply for a postgraduate course depends on whether you would like to study a taught or research course.
You can apply for postgraduate taught courses through our online application system.
Applications for research courses usually require a detailed research proposal as part of the application process.
Applying for a taught course
Applying for a research course
Applications from international students should also be made following the above processes.
Your school, an agent, or your local British Council may be able to help you with the UCAS application process for undergraduate courses.
We accept academic qualifications from schools, colleges and universities around the world.
Qualifications by country
If English isn't your first language and you haven't previously studied in an English-speaking country, you may need to provide evidence of your English language skills as part of your application.
You can meet this requirement by:
The required IELTS score will depend on which course you wish to study.
Please see undergraduate course pages and postgraduate course pages for details.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/find-uon-hub/home/account-management.html:
Here you can edit your details or delete your account - this will not affect your application.
Please note that the deletion of your Find Your Nottingham account will have no effect on your UCAS application.
Your account will be deleted but your application will not be deleted or withdrawn.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/find-uon-hub/home/preference-management.html:
Please confirm how you would like to hear from us.
You can come back and change this at any time.
Please confirm the topics of content you would like to recieve from us.
By selecting yes you are unsubscribing and will not receive any marketing information from the University of Nottingham.
Your preferences have been saved successfully, you can now continue to browse the hub or close this modal.
Error occurred while trying the save your preferences.
You can either close the modal and try again or navigate back to the hub page

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/ugstudy/discover.html:
Take our questionnaire to find your perfect course.
Answer a few questions and sign up to save your personalised results.
Sports University of the Year 2024 (Times, Sunday Times, Daily Mail)
3rd
in the UK for top employers (High Fliers Graduate Report 2024)
UK university (QS World University Rankings 2025)
This is the place where your journey begins.
We’re ranked one of the UK’s top 20 universities (QS World University Rankings 2025).
As a UoN graduate you’ll be highly prized by leading companies.
We’re the 3rd most targeted of all UK universities when it comes to top employers and have been top 5 for the past 3 years.*
This is the place where your future comes into focus
We are ranked in the top two Russell Group universities for work experience (Rate My Placement Best Universities for Work Experience 2024) and our students have access to our careers and employability service for life.
*HESA Graduate Outcomes, classification of full-time, UK graduates entering work in the UK from 2018/19 to 21/22, published 2024.
This is the place where you'll find your tribe.
We’re ranked 5th best uni in the UK for student life.
(UniCompare, Best Universities for Student Life 2025).
With over 300 societies and more than 70 sports clubs you’ll find your people and your passion.
Plus you can enjoy the city of Nottingham with its legendary tales of Robin Hood and unbeatable nightlife.
This is the place where potential isn't all that blooms.
We’ve won over 22 Green Flag awards for the most beautiful campuses in the UK.
Our stunning campuses are home to students from over 150 countries worldwide.
Whether you're interested in a BSc, BEng or a BA degree, we have a huge range of university courses for you to explore.
Take our questionnaire to receive personalised bachelors and integrated masters degree recommendations.
Then sign up to the Find Your Nottingham hub to save your results and explore what the University of Nottingham has to offer undergraduate students.
Get tailored study options and information based on the subjects and activities you’re passionate about.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/ugstudy/join-us.html:
3rd in the UK for top employers (High Fliers, The Graduate Market in 2024 Report)
We’re thrilled that you’re thinking about joining us at the University of Nottingham.
We know choosing the right place to study is a big decision - and it can feel a little overwhelming.
That’s why we want to give you a real glimpse into what life is like here.
From our vibrant campuses to our supportive community, we’re here to help you get a feel for what makes Nottingham so special.
Take a virtual tour and see for yourself why we’ve won 22 Green Flag awards
Set in extensive greenery and around a beautiful lake, University Park is one of the largest campuses in the country and a vibrant hub of student life.
Conveniently located only two miles from the city centre, it is a beautiful place to live and study.
Just a mile away, Jubilee Campus is known for its innovative architecture and sustainability.
It’s home to the Schools of Education and Computer Science, Nottingham Business School, an incredible sports centre and so much more.
You will find our world-leading laboratories and specialist facilities for studying biosciences and veterinary medicine at our Sutton Bonington Campus .
Home to over 2,500 students, it’s a relaxed and friendly campus with a dedicated Student Hub, Students’ Union and over 40 societies.
We have plenty to entertain you on campus – from relaxing with friends in the Students’ Union to catching a play, taking part in your favourite sport or joining one of our many student societies.
Take a look at our TikTok to see some of the highlights of student life at Nottingham and drop us a follow.
At the University of Nottingham, we offer:
Nothing can beat seeing it for yourself so book on one of our open days today.
We’re here to support you every step of the way whichever course you choose.
Don’t panic – we’ve got a simple questionnaire that will help you make that important decision.
Just answer a few questions and we'll help you find relevant study options, tailored information and of course, not forgetting some great advice too.
The best way to get a feel for what it is like here is to visit us on one of our open days .
You’ll have the opportunity to tour our campuses, learn more about our courses, meet our academics and chat to other students.
You could also pop into the city centre and discover for yourself why Nottingham is such a vibrant city.
In fact, it was ranked the 9th best city for students in the UK (QS Best Student Cities 2023) and a top 5 UK University for Student Life (UniCompare 2025).

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/support-services/home.html:
Discover more about the services available to you, including: admissions, accommodation, disability support, courses, placements, sport and fitness, libraries and more.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/ugstudy/articles/our-campus-and-facilities/University-Park.html:
Home to acres of green parkland, historic buildings and an iconic boating lake, University Park is a beautiful place to live and study.
A tour of our stunning University Park Campus where we hear why our students love living and studying at UoN.
Our welcome to the world.
Where state-of-the-art facilities inhabit work-of-art surroundings.
This place is the beating heart of our world beyond ordinary.
The hub of student life, a home for student welfare.
Where majestic Portland holds court with magnificent parkland.
Trent at the head.
Lakeside for the arts.
This is the place it all started, and where it all starts.
This is University Park, Nottingham.
Home of it all.
Set in extensive greenery and around a lake, University Park is the focus of life for students, staff and visitors.
Conveniently located only two miles from the city centre, the campus contains:
The local community are welcome to enjoy the walks, parks and gardens in the University’s landscaped settings which feature:
Campus and facilities
Beyond a welcoming community, the facilities you’ll find at the University of Nottingham will provide you with the complete package for a great student experience.
Whether you're a seasoned athlete, gym fanatic or just want to try something new, our extensive sport, health and wellbeing package has something for you.
Hungry?
Don’t worry, there are plenty of dining options at the University of Nottingham.
We’ll talk about the best places to refuel: on campus and in the city.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/ugstudy/see_all_static_articles.html:
{{ pagination.startPagecount+1 }} - {{ pagination.endIndex+1 }} of {{ pagination.totalItems}}
{{item.category}}
{{ item.description }}

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/ugstudy/articles/our-campus-and-facilities/jubilee-campus.html:
Jubilee Campus is a community.
It’s vibrant.
It’s a breath of fresh air.
And there’s always something going on whether you’re meeting your friends in the gym for a game of basketball, or you’re going to Costa study.
Our state-of-the-art facilities now include:
A tour of Jubilee Campus to find out why our students love living and studying on our cutting-edge contemporary campus.
With distinctive modern architecture, inspiring spaces to work and relax and a variety of start-up businesses on site, Jubilee Campus is an exciting and innovative place to be
Green Flag grounds, walks and garden guides.
The local community are welcome to enjoy the walks, parks and gardens in the University’s landscaped settings which feature:
The campus has been a Civic Trust Green Flag Award Winner every year since 2003 – the only university campus to achieve this status
Please visit Estates website for more information about the grounds.
Built on a site that previously had industrial use, Jubilee Campus is an exemplar of brownfield regeneration and has impeccable green credentials.
An important feature of the campus is the series of lakes which, as well as being home to a variety of wildlife, provide storm water attenuation and cooling for the buildings.
Less visible - but equally important to the sustainable and environmental credentials of the campus – are the:
Jubilee campus during lockdown June 23rd 2020.Copyright belongs to University of Nottingham.Photography by Lisa Gilligan-Lee.
The environmentally-friendly nature of the campus and its buildings have been a big factor in the awards that it has received, including:
The Jubilee Campus also won international praise with the Energy Globe Award.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/ugstudy/articles/our-campus-and-facilities/sutton-bonington-campus.html:
Home to our veterinary and bioscience courses, Sutton Bonington Campus offers a student experience that's as unique as our students are.
From sports to events and societies, and even a farmers market.
Sutton Bonington Campus encompasses world-leading laboratories and specialist facilities for studying biosciences and veterinary medicine.
The campus is home to over 2,500 students from the Schools of Biosciences and Veterinary Medicine, which creates a place where it’s easy to get to know your fellow students and teaching teams, yet part of a wider global community.
Sutton Bonington is affectionately known as ‘SB’ to those that study, work and live here, which defines the culture and atmosphere.
It is a relaxed and friendly place where you’ll feel at home, with access to help and support when you need it.
The Guild is the dedicated campus Students' Union, run by students for students.
They provide a varied calendar of events and student-led activities throughout the year.
There are over 40 societies based at Sutton Bonington Campus to get involved in, from music soc, dance and SB players to climbing, lacrosse and biking.
You can join existing sports clubs and societies or start your own.
Our continued investment provides inspiring and dynamic spaces for you to study and learn.
From the University Farm, Centre for Dairy Science Innovation and animal small holdings, to the paperless Super Lab, specialist glasshouses and food processing facility.
You will find everything you need to enjoy student life and feel supported on Sutton Bonington Campus including:
Student Services Hub, for welfare and support
It’s easy to access other campuses using the free hopper bus that connects Sutton Bonington and University Park Campuses, and the Nottingham tram network.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/ugstudy/articles/our-campus-and-facilities/heart-of-UK.html:
A bustling city with a legendary past, Nottingham boasts vibrancy, culture and a tonne of green spaces.
We don’t mean to brag, but with a large student population, it’s no surprise that Nottingham is ranked as the 9th best city in the UK for students and 53rd in the world, according to the QS Best Student Cities 2022 .
But what makes our vivacious city so special for students?
And what do you need to know before arriving in the heart of the UK?
While we love our Nottingham roots, the University of Nottingham strives to be a university without borders.
We have inspiring campuses in three countries, energising us to be a globally engaged university committed to making a difference in our cities and regions.
And our global impact isn’t just locational.
As a member of the UK's prestigious Russell Group and the Universitas 21 global network of research-intensive universities, we deliver a high standard of education at home and abroad.
The University of Nottingham was founded in 1881 as Nottingham Civic College, but the city of Nottingham’s story stretches much further back – to the 6th century, in fact.
Nottingham has a vibrant past filled with folklore and industrialisation.
Medieval outlaw, Robin Hood helms from the city and there’s no better place to learn about the local legend.
Nottingham has ample industrial history too, from lace making and hosiery to tobacco, bicycles and even arrow making.
Did you know that there’s also a network of caves directly underneath the city dating back to 1250?
Undergraduate students visiting the Robin Hood statue at Nottingham Castle, Nottingham City Centre.
Copyright - University of Nottingham
Some pretty amazing medical discoveries have been made here too.
While lecturing at the University of Nottingham, physicist Sir Peter Mansfield pioneered the creation of Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and transformed the world of medical imaging.
Mansfield was knighted in 1993 and won the Nobel Prize in 2003.
He remains an inspiration to students and staff and serves as a reminder of what can be achieved here in Nottingham.
The University of Nottingham really is the heart of the UK, boasting a central location 110 miles northwest of London, 30 miles southeast of Sheffield and 45 miles northeast of Birmingham.
We also have excellent travel links.
Buses and trains run throughout the city and further afield and we’re one of eight cities in the UK with a tram network.
The university also provides free hopper bus services that run between the main University Park campus and Jubilee, Sutton Bonington and King's Meadow campuses, and the Royal Derby Hospital Centre.
East Midlands Airport is only 12 miles away from University Park.
Nottingham has an abundance of art galleries, theatres, cinemas, and live music venues - there’s something for everyone to enjoy in between studies.For history buffs, Nottingham Castle has 1,000 years of history to explore.
The bustling high street, Victoria Shopping Centre and Broadmarsh have plenty of shops to keep shopaholics busy.
And sport lovers can get their fix at the City Ground, home of Nottingham Forest FC.
Nottingham students can also enjoy an array of exciting bars, restaurants and independent eateries.
Situated on the edge of the Peak District, Nottingham also benefits from a variety of green spaces right on its doorstep.
Stately homes, walking trails and seemingly never-ending forests offer quiet thinking spots when you need a break from study.
Did you know University Park sits within 300 acres of extensive greenery?
Whoever you are, whatever you're into, find your people here at Nottingham, the heart of the UK.
Students walking across bridge in Nottingham Castle play area, Nottingham City Centre.
The University of Nottingham is within 4 miles of the city centre and there are many transport links that will get you there.
In fact, it’s so close that you might even take yourself there on a bike or on foot.
How do you get to Nottingham’s city centre from the University of Nottingham campus?

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/ugstudy/articles/applying.html:
Take your first step into a world where the exceptional happens.
Completing your UCAS application can be daunting, so who better to ask for advice than the people who read them all here at the University of Nottingham.
From personal statements to accepting offers, Maryam gives you her ten top tips to help you write a great university application.
Join us and be guided by our Admissions Manager, Maryam.
With her expert guidance, you'll discover some common myths we hear from potential students.
From your reference worries to your predicted grades, and everything in between, Maryam clears up some key points you need to know to start your university experience.
Still need help?
Contact us and ask any question about undergraduate or postgraduate study at the University of Nottingham.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/ugstudy/articles/applying/how-to-apply.html:
Life is full of opportunities and studying at the University of Nottingham could be your biggest yet.
The moment you apply you'll be taking a huge step towards unlocking your potential.
It’s an exciting time but it can be daunting.
We’re here to support you at every stage, guiding you through the application process step-by-step.
Picking a degree is a unique challenge for everyone.
For some, career aspirations or subject enjoyment can make the decision easier.
For others, the choice is a little more difficult.
However, it’s important to remember that whether you have a specific career in mind or not, more than a third of the UK's graduate jobs are open to graduates of any discipline.
University of Nottingham graduates are consistently popular with employers, across all subjects.
We can help you develop:
Some degree courses – like medicine, physiotherapy, architecture, and pharmacy – should be chosen based on your career goals.
These courses provide a significant part of the training needed for these professions.
For all undergraduate courses at Nottingham, you apply online through UCAS.
The UCAS website has lots of information and advice on the process.
Once you’ve registered with UCAS you are ready to make your application.
It’s important to ensure that all sections of the UCAS application form are completed and that all the information (including details of past and future qualifications) is correct.
Failure to do so may result in delayed decisions or offers being rescinded.
Your UCAS application will ask you for a campus code.
You will only need to complete this if your course is available at more than one campus (nursing, for example).
Top tip : Be aware of UCAS dates and deadlines.
Dates are subject to change, and this may impact your application.
UCAS deadlines for medicine and veterinary medicine courses are always earlier.
Keep checking the UCAS website for the latest information.
Your personal statement is your opportunity to stand out from the crowd.
Use it to demonstrate your passion, enthusiasm and intellectual curiosity.
At least 75% of your personal statement should be related to what you want to study, and why you want to study that subject.
Be genuine and refer to topics you've already studied and your wider interests in the area.
It's also worth reflecting on any reading that you’ve done on the subject or relevant work experience.
The remaining 25% of your statement should cover any other achievements.
This is where you show us that you’ve taken full advantage of the opportunities presented to you.
Are you on a school sports team?
Have you conducted any charity work?
Do you have a part-time job?
Include relevant examples that demonstrate you have the skills needed during your time at university.
It’s time to boast about how brilliant you are.
Your reference should be written by someone within your most recent educational institution.
If you are studying on a one-year post-A level course (such as a Foundation Year), your reference should be completed by this institution rather than the school/college in which you took your A levels.
If you have been out of education for some time, a reference from your work or relevant work experience may be acceptable.
To find out more about references visit our Entry Requirements page .
Now for the fun part.
When you submit your application through UCAS, we automatically receive a copy.
We’ll then send you an invitation and unique login details for our applicant and student portal, NottinghamHub, as soon as possible.
Next, we will assess your application and either make a decision or invite you to an interview, depending on the course you are applying for.
Any decision or updates will be communicated to you by UCAS.
All invitations to interview will be sent via email, so make sure you check your junk/spam folders regularly.
We look forward to receiving your application.
Learn about the application process

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/ugstudy/articles/applying/entry-requirements.html:
Applicants to degree programmes will usually be expected to have studied three subjects at A level.
All conditional offers will ordinarily be made on the basis of three full A levels (some subjects are not included – please see our course pages).
Where applicants are taking four A levels, conditional offers will usually only be based upon obtaining three grades (including any subject specific requirements).
The grade achieved in the fourth subject may have significance when an applicant has narrowly failed to achieve the specified grades at A level.
Applicants to degree programmes should have studied either the full IB Diploma programme, or a minimum of three Higher Level certificates.
Conditional offers will be made on the basis of either a total points requirement or three Higher Level certificates, with specified achievement in some Higher or Standard level subjects if appropriate.
Our standard equivalencies for IB qualifications can be found below.
You should refer to the relevant course page for further information and details on specific subject requirements.
We consider the IB Career-related Programme, in combination with another Level 3 qualification, on a case by case basis.
We accept applicants with BTEC* qualifications to the majority of degree programmes, subject to course-specific requirements.
Each course page will detail the exact BTEC subject combination required.
Our standard equivalencies for BTEC qualifications can be found below.
Equivalencies are listed in the following order: BTEC Extended Diploma, then BTEC Diploma plus 1 A Level, then BTEC Subsidiary Diploma plus 2 A Levels.
You may be required to meet each grade in a specific subject and you should refer to the course page for further information.
These requirements only apply to reformed 'RQF' UK and International BTEC qualifications.
We accept applicants with Access to HE qualifications to a number of degree programmes, subject to course specific requirements.
Each course page will detail the exact subject and module combination required.
Our standard equivalencies for Access to HE qualifications can be found below.
You will need to achieve 60 credits overall, with 45 credits at the levels listed below, and you may be required to achieve specific grades in certain modules.
You should refer to the specific course page for further information.
Whilst the university accepts T-levels as equivalent to A-levels and considers applicants with T-Level qualifications, some courses may require additional qualifications to support meeting course specific requirements.
Where subject specific requirements cannot be met, or where no directly relevant T-level course exists, we may not be able to make an offer.
We value the skills that applicants gain when completing Extended Project and Core Maths qualifications alongside their other Level 3 studies.
For some of our courses we are able to make 1 grade reduced offers to applicants with these qualifications - refer to the course pages for further information.
Applicants are not required to take the English Baccalaureate in order to be considered for courses at Nottingham.
Some courses require specific subjects at GCSE at a specific grade and other courses require a certain number of GCSEs at A grade.
We advise students to check our entry requirements carefully before applying.
All GCSE requirements are outlined in our course pages and UCAS listings.
Applicants will usually be expected to have studied two Advanced Highers alongside five Highers in order to meet the university minimum.
For courses with subject specific requirements, applicants will need to be taking these subjects at Advanced Higher level in order to be considered.
Specific grade requirements are listed for each individual course on UCAS.
National 5 English can usually be accepted in lieu of GCSE English for applicants with Home fee status.
For international applicants, Higher/Advanced Higher English is required.
Please see our policy on minimum English language entry requirements for more information.
Compulsory subject requirements for admission to specific degree programmes are specified in our course pages and UCAS listings .
We make contextual offers to students whose personal circumstances may have restricted achievement at school or college.
Find out more and check if you may be eligible.
Our admission process recognises that applicants have a wealth of different experiences and may have followed various educational pathways.
While our publicity materials generally express entry requirements in terms of A levels, most of our schools and faculties accept a much broader range of qualifications.
The following list is not exhaustive and the University treats applicants with other qualifications on an individual basis.
The entry requirements for alternative qualifications can be quite specific – for example, you may need to take certain modules and achieve a specified grade in those modules.
It is important to find out any such requirements in time for you to make the right choices at school or college.
If you have already chosen all your modules, then you need to check carefully whether these match our entry requirements.
If in doubt, please contact us .
If your qualifications don't match your first choice of course at the University of Nottingham, a related course here may be open to you.
The best place to start is the UCAS course listings , where there is detailed information about what we require from alternative qualifications for each course.
If you can't see what you are looking for or require further information, please view the UCAS course listings for specific courses or make an enquiry to discuss your qualification.
For qualifications from outside the UK, please see our information about entry requirements by country.
If English isn't your first language, you will need to meet the relevant English language requirements .
IELTS requirements are detailed on our course pages, though we also accept a variety of alternative qualifications.
If you are an international student, you should also check our information about applying from specific countries .
If you need extra support to meet the English language requirements for your academic course, you can attend a presessional course at the Centre for English Language Education (CELE) .
If you pass at the required level, you can progress directly to your academic programme without retaking IELTS.
The University of Nottingham and partner institutions run a number of foundation years giving entry to specified courses at the University.
Please see our list of foundation courses for details.
Admissions staff at the University of Nottingham assess many applications using only the information available on the UCAS form.
Some courses use additional methods of assessment for all or some applications.
This may be for a range of reasons, including to:
Additional assessment may include interviews or tests.
Some courses may ask for examples of written work.
Where courses use additional assessment, admissions staff will send you information explaining the nature of the assessment, what admissions staff will be looking for and how you can prepare.
The University of Nottingham welcomes mature students with a broad range of experience and qualifications.
In considering applications from mature students, we take into account a range of vocational qualifications and occupational and life experiences, as well as more traditional qualifications.
For more information, see mature students .
Consideration will be given as to whether you will be able to fulfil the objectives of the programme of study and achieve the standards required.
A range of factors additional to, and in some cases instead of, formal examination results is considered in the selection process.
These can include:
The potential variety in the range and breadth of qualifications presented by applicants, referred to above, makes a school reference a key aspect in informing our admissions staff of students' abilities and the context in which they have studied.
University of Nottingham asks staff writing references to confirm in the reference any factors, if known, that might have affected the applicant’s achievement.
These factors can relate to the student’s personal circumstances and background or to the educational context.
Please see our policy for details.
Use this enquiry form to ask any question about undergraduate or postgraduate courses at the University of Nottingham.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/ugstudy/articles/applying/How-we-assess-applications.html:
Your exam grades are very important to us.
We use exam grades to prioritise applicants, but other things count as well.
Admissions staff at the University of Nottingham look for the following information on the UCAS form:
At Nottingham we prioritise exam grades when making decisions for the majority of courses.
However, your statement will be read to better understand you and your motivation for university study, and in some cases your statement will be assessed.
For any applicant, it’s important to articulate why you’d like to study a particular course or subject, and what skills and experience you possess that demonstrate your passion for your chosen field and higher education in general.
We have produced a detailed guide on how to write a personal statement , including details of the reformed question-based format on UCAS.
We recognise the potential of talented students from all backgrounds.
These offers are usually one grade lower than the entry requirements on our course pages – find out if you're eligible .
Here at the University of Nottingham we look at a range of factors and aim to give everyone an equal opportunity to show their achievements on their application.
We treat everyone on an individual basis and recognise the potential of talented students from all backgrounds.
Find out more about the flexibility applied at various stages of the admissions process .
We appreciate that personal circumstances can have an impact on academic performance at school or college.
If you believe that your studies have been disrupted see our Extenuating Circumstances policy and submit evidence to support your case.
The University aims to create the conditions whereby students and staff are treated solely on the basis of their merits, abilities and potential, regardless of gender, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, age, socio-economic background, disability, religious or political beliefs, trade union membership, family circumstances, sexual orientation or other irrelevant distinction.
If you will be under the age of 18 at the time when you begin your course, your parents or legal guardian must complete a consent form before your application is considered.
If your parents or guardian live outside the UK, they must nominate a UK-based guardian.
There are some agencies who can provide guardianship services.
Find out more in our under 18 admissions guidance .
As well as a reputation for academic excellence, the University of Nottingham has a history of sporting success.
We are passionate about supporting promising athletes during their time at Nottingham and employ a flexible admissions approach to support promising athletes in their application.
If you are an athlete of sports scholarship potential that competes at regional, national or international level in your sport or show strong evidence of future outstanding potential, we will consider this when assessing your academic potential.
This is subject to confirmation from the University sports department.
As a result, when we assess your application and you meet the requirements of the course, we may consider making you a reduced grade offer.
This policy may vary depending on which course you have applied for – this is because different courses have different requirements and some courses may have course specific or professional certification requirements.
For further details, contact us through our enquiry form .
Some courses use additional methods of assessment for all or some applicants.
Where courses use additional assessment, admissions staff send information to applicants, explaining the nature of the assessment, what admissions staff will be looking for and how applicants can prepare.
The University of Nottingham’s Quality Manual includes more information about our admissions procedures.
We expect applications to the University of Nottingham to be supported by a reference, written in English.
For the majority of UCAS courses, one reference per application is sufficient and, where possible, should be an academic reference.
A reference is not acceptable if it has been written by a partner, ex-partner, friend, or family member.
UCAS provides helpful guidance on what to include in the content of a reference, including some example statements [PDF] .
We are happy to receive references written in the new format and will not require an ‘enhanced’ reference, but please ensure that your referee provides a brief supportive statement that is specific to you in Section 3 and does not leave this section blank (this can be in bullet point format).
Applicants will not be advantaged or disadvantaged if their reference is more detailed than our recommendation.
Please note our Extenuating Circumstances policy as this will affect how much we utilise section two of the reference.
We appreciate that obtaining a reference may be difficult for some applicants.
UCAS provides advice for applicants on how to obtain a suitable reference and we encourage all applicants to explore how to acquire a reference to fully support their application.
However, if you are unable to find a suitable referee, we may be able to accept your application without one.
Exceptions to this are for vocational or accredited courses, or if you are an International applicant.
Applicants in these circumstances must provide a reference.
Please get in touch with our Admissions team if you have any concerns about being able to provide a suitable reference or to discuss this further.
Depending on the course someone has applied for, we often use predicted grades to review whether we can consider an application.
If you are studying as a private candidate, we understand that it is not always possible to receive predicted grades from your exam centre.
If you are studying with a tutor or private centre they may still be able to provide predicted grades for you – we encourage you to ask for these in the first instance to provide us with a complete picture of your academic suitability.
If you are unable to provide predicted grades we may still be able to consider your application, but this is on a case-by-case basis.
We may also need to ask you for further information to adequately assess your suitability of the course, so please do respond promptly to any further information requests.
Before we make a decision on your application, we may require some additional documents.
If this is the case, we will email you to request specific documents.
To upload your additional documents
If you are asked to upload more than one document, please do this one at a time.
If you can’t find your NottinghamHub login details, please fill out our enquiry form .
Qualification {{ item.qualification }}
Fees (UK) {{ item.fees }}
Location {{ item.location }}

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/ugstudy/articles/applying/how-long-does-the-application-process-take.html:
Unfortunately, there's no hard and fast rule when it comes to hearing back about your university application.
However, we aim to respond within a couple of weeks, depending on your course.
Here’s a rough overview of the application process and its timeline.
This part of the process largely depends on your own time management.
If you have the time and focus, you could have your application submitted within a few weeks, working to UCAS deadlines.
As soon as you submit your application, UCAS will send it to your chosen universities.
They’ll then decide whether to make you an offer or not.
The journey your application makes once it's received by an institution varies slightly depending on both the university and the course, but typically it'll be seen by more than one pair of eyes – often by both general admissions staff and academic tutors.
Depending on your chosen course, you may be invited to interview for your place.
University interviews are used by admissions staff as a means of comparing applicants with a good chance of being offered places.
Many Nottingham courses require interviews, however, not all courses need them.
Additional length may be added to the application process if you receive an invitation to interview.
We start making offers daily once applications open.
All applications are processed in due course and can take anywhere between a few days to a few weeks after submission, depending on demand.
UCAS gives universities deadlines for making offers, but you could also hear back before these dates:
Visit the university homepage

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/ugstudy/articles/applying/what-to-expect-from-the-university-application-process.html:
The application process is daunting, and your queries are understandable.
After all, this is a huge step toward your future.
So, to ease any application anxiety, we’re going to run through what you should expect from the process.
If you’re unsure about what to study, try to stay calm and consider your options.
Whether you have a specific career in mind or not, more than a third of the UK's graduate jobs are open to graduates of any discipline.
Once you’ve registered with UCAS you need to make your application and write your personal statement.
It can be helpful to set yourself goals or deadlines by which you’d like to have a certain step in your UCAS application completed.
Once your application has been submitted, you’ll typically have to wait a few weeks for universities to assess your application and make a decision.
Response times and policies differ for each university and course.
University interviews are used by admissions staff as a means of comparing applicants with a good chance of being offered places on their courses.
If you receive an invitation to interview it’s natural to be nervous.
But it’s also important to remember that receiving an invitation to interview means your application has already impressed us.
Think of your interview as another opportunity to see whether the course and university itself are for you.
This is the best part, receiving your offers.
All offers and their conditions will appear on UCAS so check the platform regularly.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/ugstudy/articles/applying/How-to-write-a-personal-statement.html:
You know we’re a good match, now all you’ve got to do is tell us why.
Your personal statement is an opportunity to tell us everything about you and how special you are but finding the right words can be tricky.
If you’re tired of sitting in front of a blank page for hours on end, searching for the best way to describe yourself, you’ve come to the right place.
Here are our top tips for writing a personal statement.
A personal statement forms part of your application to study at university.
It’s your chance to articulate why you’d like to study a particular course or subject, and what skills and experience you possess that demonstrate your passion for your chosen field.
UCAS are changing the format of the personal statement for 2026 entry, from a long single piece of text to three separate sections.
This will help you focus your answers more clearly, but don’t worry if you don’t write the same amount in each!
Each section has a minimum character count of 350 characters, and there’s an overall limit across the three questions of 4000 characters.
The three sections are:
However, your statement will be read to better understand you and your motivation for university study, and in some cases your statement will be assessed – click below to find out more about courses who place more emphasis on the personal statement.
Your statement will be assessed against set application criteria – see this page for more details.
Your personal statement should have a clear pharmacy focus, including knowledge and understanding of professional pharmacy practice.
We welcome applications from those applying for other healthcare profession courses, such as medicine, but you might be asked to submit another statement if interest in and motivation to study pharmacy is not clearly defined.
You!
No one knows you better than you know yourself.
You need to tell us why you’re the perfect candidate for the course and what makes you stand out from the crowd.
However, getting these details down isn't always easy, and some people find it helpful to make notes over time.
Carrying a notebook with you or setting up a memo on your phone can be useful.
Whenever you think of something useful for your personal statement, jot it down.
Top Tip: It’s important to remember that you only write one personal statement – it remains the same for each course you apply for.
So, avoid mentioning any universities by name.
If you’re applying for more than one subject (or it’s a combined course) it’s crucial to include common themes or reference the overall skills needed for all subjects.
Just like you, your personal statement should be unique, so there’s no specific format to follow when it comes to putting pen to paper.
That said, we have compiled some general guidelines for you to follow:
We recommend you write your personal statement first, then copy and paste it into your online application once you're happy with it.
Make sure you save it regularly, as it times out after 35 minutes of inactivity.
Life is full of opportunities and studying at the University of Nottingham could be your biggest yet!
If you’re looking for more application guidance, head over to our ' Applying' hub .
Not sure what Nottingham looks for in a personal statement?
Our Head of Admissions, Jess, discusses how we use the statement in our selection process and tips on what to include.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/ugstudy/articles/scholarships-and-bursaries-ug.html:
Scholarships and bursaries are two types of financial support you can receive during your time at university.
Scholarships and bursaries are non-repayable and students will receive this support alongside their regular student loans.
The scholarships and bursaries on this page are for students with home* fee status.
If you’d like to learn more about financial support for international students, please see the international scholarships pages .
Competitive funding with eligibility criteria
Guaranteed funding for eligible students
The key difference between a scholarship and a bursary is the availability of the funding.
Scholarships tend to have limited places and often require an application to assess your eligibility against others.
Due to the competitive nature of a scholarship, eligibility often includes showing evidence of exceptional academic potential, talent in a non-academic skill and/or facing adverse personal circumstances.
Bursaries are not competitive, they aim to help students access university more easily through financial support.
At the University of Nottingham, the Core Bursary, Care Experienced and Estranged Bursary and Nottingham Potential Bursary have unlimited places.
This means that if you meet the eligibility criteria, this bursary is guaranteed.
In most cases, you do not have to pay back funds from a scholarship or bursary.
This is how scholarships and bursaries differ from student loans.
*A 'home' student is one who meets certain UK residence criteria.
These are the same criteria as apply to eligibility for home funding from Student Finance
Discover information for full time undergraduate students who normally live in England and have 'home' fee status.
In other words you must have 'settled status' and lived in England for more than three years prior to the start of your university course.
For students with a household income between £0-£35,000 as assessed by student finance
To encourage potential in students from lower-income backgrounds or who have faced significant difficulties
A range of competitive scholarships based on the subject you're studying to help you excel in your area of interest
Take a look at our scholarships help outstanding international students make a positive impact in their studies and careers.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/support-services/home/disability-support-services.html:
Our student-led support enables students with Support Plans to flourish as independent learners.
Find out more, with dedicated information below.
Welcome to Disability Support Services
Take a look at the support options available
Key considerations by disability
Tell us of a disability
Allowances and other funding
Information to consider when submitting evidence
Deadlines for arranging your Support Plan
We are committed to helping you get around campus
A portal for resources once you're a student
Let us know if you are joining the University of Nottingham and would like to find out more about Support Plans, or how the unviersity can support you in all areas of life whilst you study here.
Join our Facebook community
Head to X for latest news and events
If you are looking for further information about disability support services, please contact us for support.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/support-services/home/why-study-with-us/study-abroad.html:
Do you aspire to be a global graduate?
Do you want to enhance your employability while travelling the world?
Do you dream of having an international career?
If yes, then studying or working abroad during your degree can help you on your way.
Study abroad gives students an opportunity to apply to study or work in another country during their degreeThe duration of your study abroad experience could range from one week to one year.
This will depend on the programme you apply for, and the course you are studying.
“My decision to study abroad was without a doubt one of the best decisions I have ever made, and I am confident the skills, experiences and friendships I obtained in Malaysia will last a lifetime.”
Emily, BSc International Management
University of Nottingham Malaysia
Discover your inner confidence as you settle into a new culture, make friends, step outside your comfort zone, connect and collaborate, and showcase your resilience.
Studying abroad can help you:
*2019 International Education Report: Gone International Mobility Works.
Report on the 2017-18 graduating cohort.
Universities UK International.
Duration
1 week – 6 weeks
About
Who can apply?
All students from any undergraduate course
1 year or 1 semester*, or aspart of a summer school programme
*Dependent on your chosen degree
Students studying for a degree which is also offered at our international campuses
1 year or 1 semester*
Students studying an eligible degree
“You will never regret going, but you could regret not going.
A year abroad is not just about studying in another university; travelling and settling in another country, it is an education in its own right.”
Chloe Gibbons.
LLB Law with South East Asian Law
National University of Singapore
The University of Nottingham was the first UK university to open a branch campus overseas with the opening of our Malaysia Campus in 2000, followed by our China Campus in Ningbo in 2004.
We are proud to offer students diverse opportunities with our portfolio of
Make an enquiry to ask any question about undergraduate or postgraduate courses at the University of Nottingham.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/support-services/home/international-students/cele.html:
The Centre for English Language Education is accredited by the British Council for the teaching of English in the UK.
We are accredited by the British Council for the teaching of English in the UK, which ensures high-quality teaching, facilities and support.
Our strengths were recognised in course design, quality management, learning resources and the experience, skills and knowledge of our teaching team.
We are also a member of English UK, the national membership association of accredited English language teaching (ELT) centres in the UK.
The Centre for English Language Education is part of the School of Education, which is in the top 50 worldwide for education in the QS World University Rankings by Subject 2024 .
With a community of over 40,000 students from more than 150 countries, the University of Nottingham is a truly global university, with campuses in the UK, Malaysia and China.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/support-services/home/admissions-terminology.html:
On this page you will find words commonly used by universities and Higher Education Institutions.
The admissions team at a university is responsible for processing the applications received via UCAS.
They will assess each application, based on the applicants' qualifications, and will decide if the university is able to offer the applicant a place on the course.
Any person who successfully completes a university course becomes an alumnus of that university.
Bachelor’s degree
The type of undergraduate qualification students are awarded after successfully completing a 3- or 4-year university or college degree.
Bachelor’s degrees have a range of titles including Bachelor of Arts (BA), Bachelor of Engineering (BEng), Bachelor of Science (BSc), Bachelor of Education (BEd), Bachelor of Law (LLB) etc.
See a list of undergraduate courses.
Bursary
A means-tested, non-repayable, sum of money given to students who meet the eligibility criteria.
Campus
The buildings and land of a university.
Campus tour
An opportunity to visit a university.
Campus tours are smaller events than university open days.
A process allowing prospective students without a university place to apply for university courses which haven’t been filled.
The process takes place in August each year.
Conditional offer
The applicant will be given a place at university if certain conditions are met, for example set A-level results have to be achieved.
Degree Apprenticeship
An alternative to university study.
Apprentices are in full-time employment while studying for their degree.
The employer will fund the apprenticeship.
Dissertation
Large piece of work to be completed in the last year of a degree programme, focusing the student’s learning on one area.
Entry requirements
The grades or qualifications a student must obtain in order to be accepted onto a university course.
Entry requirements vary across universities and courses.
Firm choice
A student can apply for up to 5 courses/universities.
During the application process, they will make one of the courses their firm/favourite choice.
Gap year
Students can take a gap year before they start university or straight after graduation.
Halls of residence
or commonly referred to as 'halls', is student accommodation on campus.
Often available for first year students.
Higher Education (HE)
Study at this level is normally undertaken by students over the age of 18.
Insurance offer
Second choice of university course in case the student doesn’t get the grades for the course they have chosen as their firm choice.
Jubilee Campus is a modern purpose-built campus which now extends to 65 acres and is located only one mile from University Park.
University of Nottingham Jubilee Campus Wollaton Road Nottingham NG8 1BB
No terminology available
Lecturer
Teacher at university.
In addition to teaching, a lecturer may also carry out research into their subject area.
Maintenance loans
A loan to help students with their living costs.
Applications are made through Student Finance England.
Master’s degree
A postgraduate qualification that students can study towards after completing their Bachelor's degree.
Degree titles include Master of Arts (MA), Master of Science (MSc), Master of Research (MRes) and Master of Philosophy (MPhil).
No terminology available.
Online distance learning
A flexible way to study for a degree.
Often used by students who are unable to attend lectures on campus.
Open day
An opportunity for prospective students and their parents to visit a university campus and speak to staff and current students.
Open days are an excellent opportunity to find out what it is really like to study at a university.
Personal statement
A text written by the student in support of their university application.
Admissions tutors use personal statements to help identify the applicants most suited for a course.
The statement should highlight the applicant’s skills and ambitions.
Placement year
A year of work experience.
Often optional.
The placement is usually taken between the second and third year of study.
Students who choose a placement year graduate from university with work experience as well as a degree.
Postgraduate degree
A Higher Education degree, normally undertaken after an undergraduate degree.
PG awards include titles such as Master of Arts (MA) and Doctor of Philosophy (PhD).
No terminology avalable.
Reference
A reference has to be provided with the UCAS application.
It is normally written by one of the teachers at the applicant’s school.
The reference is submitted directly to UCAS by the school.
Scholarship
A grant awarded to some students to help them with the cost of going to university.
Students are selected to receive a scholarship based on academic achievement or other set criteria.
Sandwich degree
Generally a 4-year degree programme in which the third year is completed in an industry-related paid placement.
Semester
The University of Nottingham's academic year is divided into 3 semesters, A, B and C.
Subject taster day
An opportunity to try a subject for a day at university before you apply.
Students’ Union
Most universities have a Students’ Union.
They look after the students’ interests and organise events throughout the year.
Sutton Bonington
The campus is home to over 2,500 students from the Schools of Biosciences and Veterinary Medicine, which creates a place where it’s easy to get to know your fellow students and teaching teams, yet part of a wider global community.
University of Nottingham Sutton Bonington Campus Sutton Bonington Leicestershire LE12 5RD
Tuition fee loans
Paid directly to the university from Student Finance England.
UCAS
University and College Admission Services.
Most university applications are made via the UCAS website.
UCAS Hub
A place on the UCAS website where students can follow the progress of their university application.
Unconditional offer
A message confirming that an applicant has been successful in securing a place on a university course.
Undergraduate degree
Normally the first Higher Education degree undertaken by students over the age of 18.
University Park Campus
University Park is The University of Nottingham’s largest campus at 300 acres.
Part of the University since 1929, the campus is widely regarded as one of the largest and most attractive in the country.
University of Nottingham University Park Nottingham NG7 2RD
Withdrawal
A message confirming that an applicant has changed their mind and no longer wishes to be considered for a course.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/support-services/home/international-students/ielts.html:
IELTS is jointly owned by British Council, IDP: IELTS Australia and Cambridge Assessment English

Every year, IELTS helps millions of people realise their dreams of working, studying or living abroad, or improving their opportunities at home.
Based on Jubilee Campus, we offer Academic and General Training IELTS tests on Paper and on Computer at least twice a month throughout the year.
You can book a test with the University of Nottingham now.
In February 2015, the UK government announced important changes to Secure English Language Tests (SELTs) for VISA purposes.
Find out about IELTS tests for visa purposes and IELTS for migration .
Please note that the address below should only be used for application and results enquiries by appointment.
The test day venue address may be different and will be communicated to test takers at least a week before the test.
IELTS International Student Recruitment B Floor - Exchange Building Jubilee Campus Wollaton Road Nottingham NG8 1AW
Please note the IELTS office is currently closed to the public so we are unable to accept any enquiries in person.
If your enquiry cannot be solved via email or over the phone, the IELTS team may see individual test takers by appointment only.
Free parking is available on campus at weekends.
However, if you are visiting Monday-Friday between the hours of 09:15-16:00 you will need to park in one of the Pay & Display parking spaces or a disabled parking space (should you have suitable documentation).
Visitor parking charges
Restrictions will apply in some locations.
f you have any further questions, please email ielts@nottingham.ac.uk or call 0115 95 14419
IELTS for UK.
Want to study in the UK?
First stop: IELTS.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/support-services/home/widening-participation-and-outreach.html:
At the University of Nottingham, we are committed to ensuring that all students can access and succeed in higher education.
From applying, through to graduation, we can offer support and guidance to help you have a successful university experience.
Explore the pages below to find out how we can support you.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/support-services/home/placements-work-experience.html:
I wouldn’t have secured either of my internships without the experience I gained from the Digital Marketing Academy and the support of the Careers and Employability Service.
Olivia Taylor
Theology and Religious Studies graduate
Learn more about the types of placements available
Discover the placement programmes
Discover our placement programmes
Discover the practice placement options
Please note the above list of subject specific opportunties is a sample of placements we offer at the University of Nottingham.
If you would like to find out if your course has a placement option, please visit your dedicated course page in our prosepctus, or make an enquiry with out team.
Many of our students complete placements with a wide range of industry partners.
Hear from some of those students and read their experiences.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/support-services/home/sport.html:
Keep up to date with all the latest news
Combine your degree with practical skills
We offer undergraduate and postgraduate courses
Sports University of the Year 2024
Sports University of the Year 2024.
University of Nottingham student athletes have once again dominated the team finals at the national university championships, BUCS Big Wednesday, cementing Nottingham’s status as the top Higher Education institution for team sport in the UK!
Nottingham has been crowned the best university in the UK for sports by The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024, published today (Friday 15 September) – the third time the university has been awarded the accolade by the publication since 2018.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/ugstudy/articles/life-in-nottingham/how-safe-is-nottingham-for-students--.html:
Moving to a new place makes everyone a bit anxious.
You ask yourself if you’ll fit in, and you probably wonder how safe it is.
It’s quite normal to be nervous or even overwhelmed during your first weeks, but once you settle in, you’ll realise that Nottingham is a nice, quiet place.
Ranked as the 6th best city in the UK for students, you’ll be glad to hear that Nottingham has held the Purple Flag status since 2010, which means that our Nottingham is a safe place to live or go for a night out.
However, just like any other place, it is important to stay aware of your surroundings and any potential risks, and to know how to prevent them.
This will ensure that you can enjoy your years of study and student life without having to worry about your safety.
The University of Nottingham campuses are places where you can feel safe, and live in a comfortable environment where you can feel at home.
Besides our security measures for your physical and material safety, the University of Nottingham does not tolerate any type of harassment, hate crime, or unwanted behaviour that you find offensive, intimidating or humiliating.
Lock all your doors and windows
It can be that simple to keep most burglaries at bay.
Be considerate about your stuff
Don’t flash your stuff in public or leave it unattended.
Leaving your laptop unattended on that coffee shop table might not be such a good idea.
After all, you don’t want a semester of work stolen.
Talk about what’s your plan for the night
Whether it’s the first time living on your own, or you’ve been here for a while, being sensible about your personal safety will help you enjoy your experience at the University of Nottingham.
It's important to consider who knows where you are, when they can expect to see you again and remember to communicate with friends and family if your plans change.
If unsure, you don’t need to feel pressured about being on your own in terms of safety.
At the University of Nottingham we have an array of services to provide support - from advice centres to wellbeing - should you ever need them.
Here, we’re all part of a safe, diverse and inclusive community.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/ugstudy/articles/life-in-nottingham/what-are-the-highlights-of-the-city--.html:
If you're thinking of coming to to study in Nottingham, the first question people ask is: “what’s good about Nottingham?” Why should I go there and not any of the other destinations across the UK?
What does Nottingham offer me as an individual?
Well, let’s take a look at five highlights and what the city has to offer.
Almost everyone wants to know the city they’re going to has a buzzing nightlife with plenty of social activities.
The good news is that Nottingham has this in spades!
Nottingham has a wide selection of bars and nightclubs that cater to most people’s taste in beats and beverages.
Nottingham strikes that fine balance between keeping its classic night spots going but also encouraging new spots into the city to give people a good choice of places to go at night.
Some of the famous night spots are:
Rock City : a great spot for indie bands and the general club experience.
Revolution : a classic Nottingham city bar that’s popular with students and seasoned Nottingham natives that enjoy a walk down memory lane.
Nottingham city also moves with the times – bringing its famous night spots with it.
A good example of this is the recently renovated Broadway Cinema .
Already a popular staple of Nottingham’s bustling nightlife with its arthouse cinema screenings, delicious food menu and swanky bar.
After the pandemic, the venue bounced back with a vengeance with a completely revamped interior, bar and restaurant.
On the topic of food, eating out is something almost everyone likes to do.
Over the last decade, Nottingham has welcomed many new eclectic restaurants and food establishments.
Being spoilt for choice was something you’d normally expect in capital cities like London, New York etc.
But Nottingham really stands out in this regard.
Bringing you some great options you wouldn’t necessarily consider when eating out:
A bright and colourful celebration of Caribbean food: https://turtlebay.co.uk/
A dream come true for people with a sweet tooth: https://www.thepuddingpantry.co.uk/contact-us
A café with great food and drink that doubles as a home for stray cats, rescue cats and even cats with medical issues: https://www.kittycafe.co.uk/
Robin Hood’s tunic is green for a very good reason.
Major cities tend to become concrete jungles.
The greenery they do have usually ends up being restricted to a handful of parks.
Nottingham has managed to hold onto its greenery throughout the years of development and urban expansion.
It’s important to be able to “get away from it all” and one of the popular ways to do that is to get out among the trees and the grass.
Spending time in nature has proven to reduce anxiety and depression.
Having a healthy balance between the intensity of city life and the tranquility of green spaces is beneficial for mental health – particularly at a time when anxiety and depression levels have increased a staggering 25% since the COVID-19 pandemic.
It’s good to know that Nottingham provides its people with plenty of access to a range of green spaces to provide that balance.
Nottingham has its own signature cultural identity.
Some cities can come across as trying to be like other popular cities but Nottingham doesn’t do that.
It pulls from its history to create its own unique identity.
And the resulting experience of a visit to Nottingham is unlike any other city you may have been to.
The Goose Fair began as a trading event for geese and other livestock around 1541.
It’s now evolved into a popular, annual fairground attraction in celebration of the historical site.
Many of Nottingham’s inhabitants look forward to the Goose Fair (if only for the delicious mushy peas) and you certainly feel as though everyone in Nottingham has come out to party!
England has become incredibly cosmopolitan.
Nottingham is incredibly well-integrated and diversity is evident right across residential neighborhoods.
The influx of students into Nottingham’s higher education establishments bring even more people into the city from abroad.
You can now find supermarkets that cater to a range of international cultural cuisines: from Polish and Chinese to Indian and even Korean outlets.
The diversity in Nottingham is a key element that continues to shape the city for the better – keeping it fresh and forward-thinking about the future ahead.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/ugstudy/articles/life-in-nottingham/what-do-people-go-to-the-city-for--.html:
Nottingham is an eclectic and diverse city that’s home to so many hidden gems!
The city has evolved considerably over recent decades, changing with the times and becoming much more cosmopolitan with an open-door policy for things that are exciting and new.
Did you know that Nottingham City Transport is the only company to win UK Bus Operator of the year five times!
Nottingham is on the cutting edge of public transport and provides a quality service with a smile.
The Robin Hood Network will offer a multi-operator ticketing system to allow free roaming across the bus, tram and rail networks.
Nottingham also has one of greenest transport systems, making travel sustainable for regular commuting by switching to electric and biogas-fueled buses.
Nottingham is set to be the first city outside of London to have fully contactless payment apps for buses and trams.
This award-winning transport system gives you the most convenient connectivity between the University of Nottingham’s campuses; regardless of where you find your accommodation.
Nottinghamshire is incredibly convenient for travel anywhere across the country.
You can be in London within an hour and forty minutes and there are great links to the north, south and Ireland.
And when the HS2 train arrives in 2030, it’ll only be 20min to get to Birmingham, you can be in Leeds in 27 mins and it’ll take just 52 mins to get into central London.
Nottingham will get you there.
It’s a little-known fact that Nottingham is the home of world-class pioneers and disruptive thinkers.
It was Nottingham’s very own Ada Lovelace and her innovative work with Charles Babbage that created the world’s very first mechanical computing machine in the 1800s.
The 'Invest in Nottingham' initiative actively helps innovative companies relocate to and thrive in the Nottingham area.
It’s been a great investment as Nottingham’s Digital Tech sector contributes an impressive £2.5BN to the local economy and employs upwards of 36,500 people – many being grads from the University of Nottingham.
The University of Nottingham’s school of Computer Science is one of the UK’s leading educational institutions in the field and has long-standing partnerships with global tech companies like IBM and Microsoft.
If you’re looking to get into tech, then Nottingham is the place to be.
Big businesses and start-ups (in the know) understand that Nottingham is bursting with talented professionals.
The University of Nottingham is a leading contributor to this abundance of talent.
There are some 35,050 students (that’s nearly twice the seating capacity of Madison Square Garden) enrolled in courses relevant to innovation-hungry STEAM industries.
The access to talent benefits businesses looking to build teams of quality professionals.
BioCity Nottingham is an ultramodern Bioscience business incubator.
They boast a 91% survival rate for the companies that exist within their business network.
The University of Nottingham has run successful bootcamps at Biocity that were sponsored by AstraZeneca , PERA and AdamsonJones .
By choosing Nottingham as their location, companies can take their pick from a 2.1 million strong workforce within Nottingham’s recruitment catchment area.
Nottingham is a city that’s constantly in a state of change and growth.
Nottingham is undergoing a multi-million facelift of its Broadmarsh Southern Gateway.
The new gateway will be a top to bottom transformation that will include a brand spanking new library, college, hotels, offices, modern homes, shops and bars.
The new development will be housed within a picturesque, traffic-calmed environment – quite literally a breath of fresh air compared to the typical, smoggy, overly congested city centres of other cities.
There’s also a £650 million redevelopment of the famous Boots Island site in progress to build new office spaces, retail, student accommodation and a 5-star hotel.
Nottingham provides great opportunities for a budding entrepreneur’s start-up with its commercial property.
The average rental price comes in at a bargain of just £19.52 per square foot.
Far less than what you’d expect to pay in London and other major cities in England.
The quality of life is great for the Nottingham Native.
You’ll actually save an average of £6k per annum compared with living in London, where the average house price is a staggering £730,014!
It’s not surprising then that Nottingham is the ‘saver friendly’ choice for homebuyers.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/ugstudy/articles/life-in-nottingham/what-is-the-city-famous-for--.html:
If you look across the Nottingham city skyline there’s one landmark that always catches your eye.
Nottingham Castle is a popular tourist attraction and a huge draw for people that love their history!
So many fascinating stories of the past have played out within the castle walls - riots, rebellions and royal rows, take your pick!
In 1068, William the Conqueror first ordered the construction of Nottingham Castle to establish a presence of Norman power and superiority over central England.
Then in 1330, the castle became the setting of a bloody coup by the loyal supporters of Edward the III, using the complex network of caves hidden below the castle floors to stage a cunning siege!
And then in 1642, King Charles hoisted his flag high above the castle to rally his army...
and so began the brutal English Civil War !
A war through which the strong walls of Nottingham Castle managed to endure.
Until the year 1831, when the castle was torched by rioters during the Industrial Revolution.
Fortunately, the spirit of Nottingham’s creativity would blossom through the ashes of these charred remains and the castle rose again as a municipal art gallery for our viewing pleasure!
Today you can visit the castle for a selection of informative talks, tours and exhibitions .
A feast for the senses that comes with a beautiful 360-degree view of Nottingham city.
Not for the faint of heart.
The Caves of Nottingham are a network of endlessly winding passages below the streets of the city.
Nottingham boasts the UK’s largest network of over 800 subterranean caves that has history chiseled into its limestone structure, from WWII air raid shelters to medieval tannery.
The immersive 45-minute audio tour enhances the ancient atmosphere surrounding you.
So few people are aware of the fascinating history lying hidden in the limestone caves beneath their feet.
The caves are ideally located within the city centre – so you’ll have ample time for a bit of shopping too!
No list would be complete without mentioning the most iconic historical figure to be associated with Nottingham – Robin Hood.
“He robbed the rich to feed the poor.”
The legend of this folklore hero has captivated people across the world.
Whether it be film, TV or print media; you’re probably familiar with the Robin Hood mythology already.
You’ve seen him portrayed by many famous stars, from Russell Crowe and Kevin Costner to Errol Flynn .
The legend actually began as early as 1225 when a fugitive known as ‘Robert Hod’ became infamous for robbing travelers moving between Nottingham and Yorkshire through Sherwood Forest.
Then from around the mid-1200s “Robin Hood” become a popular nickname for outlaws – so it’s likely that Nottingham has seen a number of different Robin Hoods in its time - just as Hollywood has!
Bow-shooting outlaws aren’t the only figures that’re famous for their Nottingham origins.
Famed English writer and poet DH Lawrence began life in Eastwood, Nottinghamshire.
In fact, the very building of his birthplace has been converted into the DH Lawrence Museum.
Literary enthusiasts of his works: Sons and Lovers, Women in Love and Lady Chatterley’s Lovers regularly make the pilgrimage to this popular site.
By immersing yourself in the landscape of Eastwood’s mining heritage, it’s easy to see how the location itself was a huge inspiration to DH Lawrence’s writing.
Nottingham has an impressive array of world-class sporting facilities, many of which you’ll have already heard of and seen on TV.
The City Ground is the home of Nottingham Forest Football Club.
The stadium played host to a number of international football games during Euro 96 and is a beloved landmark among its faithful supporters.
In fact, the supporters themselves raised £2,000 of the £3,000 needed to finance the move to the City Ground back in 1898.
Then right across the road you can enjoy a spot of cricket at the Trent Bridge Cricket Ground .
A beautifully designed sporting facility that’s a regular fixture for international test matches – and for good reason.
You’ll usually see the place packed to maximum capacity with eager cricket fans in the summer months and you can even have your wedding there.
And if you continue on down the road, you’ll find the incredibly scenic National Water Sports Centre .
Whether its canoeing, kayaking, white water rafting or Olympic rowing that takes your fancy – this place does it all.
It’s also a popular venue for recreational bike riding and you can see why.
If football, cricket and water sports don’t take your fancy, tennis fans are in for a real treat!
Nottingham is home to the largest public tennis centre in the whole of Great Britain.
The facility supports a thriving local tennis community of all ages and abilities – including many keen racket swingers from the University of Nottingham.
For people that enjoy the great outdoors, Sherwood Forest is the perfect getaway.
The site attracts a staggering 350,000 visitors every year.
And those visitors enjoy a variety of activities such as: nature walks, archery, historical events and tours.
It’s also an important conservation site that homes The Major Oak , a tree that’s approximately 1,000 years of age.
Run by the National Justice Museum Trust, this educational site uses real spaces, objects and stories to immerse visitors in the fascinating history of social justice and its effect on modern times.
A total of £3.5 million was raised for the restoration of the venue in 1994 and in 2005 it unveiled its National HM Prison Service to the general public.
The most extravagant of all the major buildings in the heart of the city.
The Theatre Royal ’s heritage stretches all the way back to 1865.
Over the years it’s withstood two world wars, the rise of cinema, TV and radio and maintains a strong foothold in Nottingham’s city culture.
The venue recently launched its digital archive where people can trace this heritage back to its early beginnings.
And there’s no shortage of entertainment.
Whether you enjoy plays, music concerts, stand-up comedy, pantomime or even dance – this place has something for everyone .
Nottingham’s Lace Market is one of the oldest parts of the city.
It makes up a large portion of Nottingham’s Creative Quarter.
The Lace Market was renowned in the fashion world for its intricate lace manufacturing.
This legacy continued in 1970 when international fashion designer Paul Smith opened his first boutique in the area – and the rest as they say, is history.
The area has held on to its creative origins and still attracts a large portion of Nottingham’s mod and hipster crowd with its bohemian vibe.
And last but not least we have Nottingham’s favorite stately home – Wollaton Hall.
Built between 1580 and 1588, this quintessentially regal building was considered to be “ the architectural sensation of its age ”.
The hall is surrounded by acres of scenic grounds, a beautiful lake and a wild deer park that’s home to over 90 red and 120 fallow deer – a truly magnificent sight during the winter months.
The location is so impressive that even Hollywood came calling!
In 2011 Wollaton Hall was selected by movie director Christopher Nolan for his third and final Batman movie: The Dark Knight Rises , standing in as the infamous (new look) Wayne Manor.
Throughout the year the venue puts on a wide variety of exciting events such as: tours, a dinosaur exhibition , open-air plays and open air cinema screenings during the summer (including the Batman movie – naturally).

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/ugstudy/articles/international-students-hub/your-home-away-from-home.html:
We know not all students can visit home easily, so we asked our international students and staff how they maintain a connection to their home countries while living in Nottingham.
They gave us recommendations for restaurants, food shops, places of faith and community groups that cover the globe.
Khushi takes us to her favourite dosa restaurant in Nottingham, Dosa and Chutney, to show us how she stays connected to her home while at university
When Khushi is missing her home in India, she takes a trip to Dosa and Chutney, which is located close to Market Square in Nottingham city centre.
Carrie shares her experiences of celebrating Lunar New Year in the UK
Carrie enjoyed celebrating Lunar New Year.
She cooked traditional Chinese food, took part in arts and crafts and watched an amazing projection display at Lakeside Arts.
"Falafel offers delicious Middle Eastern food at an affordable price and I love going there as it rekindles memories of my childhood in the UAE.
The vast menu consists of authentic Arabic cuisine including falafel, shawarma, halloumi and fattoush.
The cuisine is familiar to what I grew up with and tasting the food makes me fondly remember my time in the Emirates, making the distance from home feel shorter during days where I miss it the most." - Navshrie (Biotechnology) recommended Falafel on Long Row
The cuisine is familiar to what I grew up with and tasting the food makes me fondly remember my time in the Emirates, making the distance from home feel shorter during days where I miss it the most."
- Navshrie (Biotechnology) recommended Falafel on Long Row
"This is my gurdwara in Nottingham.
A gurdwara is a religious place for Sikhs, but welcomes all religions.
They have a prayer hall and provide langar facilities (a 'langar' is the community kitchen of a gurdwara, which serves meals to all free of charge, regardless of religion, caste, gender, economic status or ethnicity)." - Deepak (Business and Management MSc, graduated in January 2022) recommended Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Gurdwara in Lenton
They have a prayer hall and provide langar facilities (a 'langar' is the community kitchen of a gurdwara, which serves meals to all free of charge, regardless of religion, caste, gender, economic status or ethnicity)."
- Deepak (Business and Management MSc, graduated in January 2022) recommended Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Gurdwara in Lenton
Several students recommended the Ghanaian Students' Society, which 'serves as a bridge to unites hearts', making Ghanaian students feel like they never left home.
If there's somewhere in Nottingham that keeps you connected to your home country or your heritage, let us know.
Complete the form below for a chance to be featured on the map and to help others find a little bit of home in Nottingham.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/ugstudy/parents/parents.aspx:
Things to consider as the parent or guardian of a young person applying to university.
There's a lot to think about when applying for university.
But don't worry - it doesn't have to be stressful.
We have information on everything you need when supporting a young person to apply to university for the first time.
Help your child plan and manage their preparations
Discover student life in Nottingham
Your guide to undergraduate funding options
Learn about the student accommodation options
All the sources of support available to students
Help a student to navigate Clearing
The best way to decide if Nottingham is right for your student is to come and visit our campus at an Open Day.
We have Open Days in June, July, September and October where you can:
More about our upcoming Open Days >
If you can't attend an Open Day, you may wish to book a campus tour or attend one of our virtual events.
Find out more about your options for visiting us >
We also have a variety of of ways to connect with us online.
You can:
A quick guide on what to bring for your first day at university.
Support and Wellbeing
Reach your full potential in a nurturing environment at the University of Nottingham

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/visitingus/mapsanddirections.aspx:
Directions and travel information Google map Site map (PDF)
Directions and travel information Google maps and site maps (PDF)
Open day travel information Arriving by train Car parking

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/visitingus/campus-tours.aspx:
We are unable to enter subject-specific facilities on the tour, although we will indicate several of these locations from the outside.
Our next campus tours will take place on:
The tours run from 11am until 2pm on a drop-in basis.
While the event starts at 11am, you can drop-in at any point during this time, with the last tours leaving at 1.15pm.
Campus tours last approximately one hour.
You may be able to speak to an academic as part of your visit.
Academics from a number of subjects have made themselves available to chat to visitors on these dates.
If you would like to check if there will be an academic available to speak to you in your chosen subject area, please ask us on the day when you register.
Book your campus tour
We are currently unable to offer tours of Jubilee Campus or Sutton Bonington Campus for the below subjects.
However, you are welcome to visit these campuses independently.
You can explore the spaces yourself using the self-guided tour for Jubilee Campus and Sutton Bonington Campus .
Equally, you are welcome to attend a University Park Campus tour, regardless of your chosen subject.
The accommodation and facilities available at University Park Campus are available to all students at the University of Nottingham.
Subjects taught at Jubilee Campus and Sutton Bonington Campus, that we are unable to offer campus tours for:
You’ll learn all about what it’s like to live and study at the University of Nottingham.
And although you won’t be entering accommodation, you’ll get a good idea of life on campus – so it’ll be easy to imagine yourself here.
For specific information about your chosen course, check out our on demand talks .
You can also chat to a student about your subject, and find out all you need to know about student life.
Want to know what living here would feel like?
Explore our halls of residence online and find your home from home.
Our grounds are always open to the public, so if you can’t attend one of our tours, you can still explore our campus.
Do bear in mind though that you won’t be able to go inside any halls of residence or some teaching buildings.
On the web pages below, you can find the recommended route around our campuses, with some information about the buildings you'll visit:
University Park Campus self-guided tour
Jubilee Campus self-guided tour
Sutton Bonington Campus self-guided tour
Even if you’re not able to visit us in person, there are still lots of ways to find out what life here on campus is like.
Access over 150 talks and tasters on Open Days on demand
Explore campus with our virtual tour
Connect with us on social media
Please contact us at opendays@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/ugstudy/see_all_recently_viewed.html:
{{ item.duration }}
{{ item.entryRequirementsCode }}
UCAS code
{{ item.ucasCode }}
{{item.description}}

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/postgraduatestudies/masters-virtual-open-day/index.aspx:
Find Your Nottingham
Ready to discover what makes the University of Nottingham extraordinary?
Book your place on one of our Master’s Virtual Open Days and see why students from over 150 countries choose the University of Nottingham.
Hosted by Nottingham alumni, you’ll be able to watch short interviews with people from key support services that help create a welcoming place to study.
Book your place on one of the following dates:
You will hear directly from our academics about subjects in the following areas:
You can also watch our Master's Virtual Open Days in Mandarin .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/pgstudy/how-to-apply/how-to-apply.aspx:
Our step-by-step guides can help you navigate the application process.
Planning to study a masters , PGCE , postgraduate diploma or certificate ?
You will be applying for a taught course.
How to apply for taught courses
If you want to study a PhD , MPhil or research masters , our guide to applying for research opportunities is for you.
How to apply for research opportunities

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/pgstudy/funding/postgraduate-funding.aspx:
The university offers a range of scholarships.
Use our search tool to find out what funding opportunities are available to you.
Find funding
We provide lots of funding advice specifically for international students.
You can also contact your country representative for information on funding your course.
Some of our academic schools offer funding specifically for current students/graduates who want to continue their studies with us on a masters course.
Find out more:
The Alternative Guide Online is available to help students from any subject or nationality source funding for masters, PGCE and PhD study in the UK through grants from charities, trusts and foundations.
Please enter your email address and we'll send you the login details.
Working part-time while studying can help you fund your course.
There are lots of ways to find work:

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/pgstudy/why-nottingham/index.aspx:
At the University of Nottingham, you will benefit from teaching and research of the highest quality.
Our teaching is ranked among the best in the UK.
We’re a world top 100 university (QS World University Rankings 2026).
Teaching quality
Our research has a real impact across the world.
We ranked 7th in the UK for research power – Research Excellence Framework 2021 .
Our research
Nottingham is a great place to live, study and work.
There are a range of shopping, dining and entertainment options.
Nottingham city

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/pgstudy/visiting-us/visiting-us.aspx:
You can access a variety of talks about postgraduate study on our on-demand platform.
These talks are available at any time.
Access our postgraduate talks
Come and chat to our academics, current students, career team and more.
Saturday 11 October 2025.
Jubilee Campus.
9.30am to 4pm UK time.
Our campus tours offer all prospective students an opportunity to explore our University Park Campus, guided by a current University of Nottingham student.
These tours are offered on a selection of afternoons.
Each will last for around 60 minutes.
Our faculty and school teams host a range of postgraduate events throughout the year – attending one is a great way to learn more about your chosen course or research area.
Registration may be required.
If no events are taking place in your particular school you can also get in touch to arrange an individual visit.
Our staff frequently travel to other countries to answer questions about studying here as an international student and provide expert advice for applicants and offer-holders.
We also work with overseas representatives all over the world who can guide you through every stage of your application.
Appointments are not required for most exhibitions and drop-in sessions.
Meet us in your country
If you're unable to visit us in person, you can discover campus life at the university using our virtual tour.
Explore our UK campuses

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/doctoral-training-centres/index.aspx:
Doctoral training programmes offer high-quality funded PhD opportunities in centres of excellence, with integrated research training and development.
The course structure is sufficiently flexible for students to acquire a range of personal and professional skills which can be tailored to suit their career aspirations.
Securing an opportunity at a doctoral training programme is an excellent way to set yourself apart, and work at the cutting-edge of research.
The university has won substantial awards from the UK Research Councils as well as other funding bodies to support the training and work of the next generation of researchers through our portfolio of doctoral training programmes.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/pgstudy/how-to-apply/apply-online.aspx:
You can apply directly through our online system, NottinghamHub.
There is an application fee of £50 for postgraduate taught courses and MRes courses.
You can log in at any time to track the progress of your application.
When we have made a decision, we will email you to let you know what you need to do next.
Track your application
Places are limited and courses may become full so we encourage you to apply as early as possible.
Some courses have earlier deadlines, due to availability or funding requirements, as detailed on our course pages .
Make sure to change the 'Year of entry' option to '2025' then click 'Apply filters' to view these courses.
Standard application deadlines
4 August 2025
25 August 2025
1 October 2025
18 August 2025
15 September 2025
3 August 2026
24 August 2026
1 October 2026
17 August 2026
14 September 2026
Please note that if an application fee is required, you will not be able to submit your application until this fee has been paid.
For postgraduate courses starting on other dates during the year, the application deadline is typically six weeks before the course start date.
Some courses will have start dates outside of the standard dates above.
If they do, these will be listed on the course pages.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/pgstudy/already-applied/already-applied.aspx:
Once you've submitted your application, we'll send you an email to confirm we've received it.
Find out what you need to do next.
On this page:
We aim to respond to applications within three weeks.
At peak times, applications can take up to six weeks to process.
If we need any more information from you to make a decision, we'll get in touch.
As soon as we've made a decision on your application, we'll contact you to let you know what you need to do next.
You can log into our online application system, NottinghamHub, at any time to track the status of your application.
Check the status of your application regularly to see if we've requested anything else from you.
If you've applied for teacher training or MA Social Work, you can track your application through UCAS .
If you already have your qualifications, you can upload scanned copies of your degree certificate and transcripts, as well as any other supporting documents.
You may also need to provide two references, including at least one who can comment on your academic ability.
It's a good idea to start exploring funding options once you've submitted your application.
You'll need an offer of study before you can apply for some scholarships.
But if you know what is available and what you are eligible for, you can plan your funding application and submit it as soon as you're ready.
Information about scholarships and postgraduate student loans can be found in our funding guidance .
If you have a question about your application, contact us .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/country-info:
Our campuses are home to students from over 150 countries worldwide.
Check these webpages to find information for students from your country.
These pages provide information and guidance on entry requirements, scholarships, contact details and overseas representatives for many of the countries and regions where our students come from.
If your country or region isn't included or you would like more information, please contact us.
C Floor, YANG Fujia Building Jubilee Campus, Wollaton Road Nottingham, NG8 1BB, UK
+44 (0) 115 951 5247 Contact us by email

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/scholarships-funding-finance/scholarships-funding-and-finance.aspx:
What does it cost to be an international student in Nottingham?
Moving to a new country to study is an exciting adventure and understanding your living costs is key to making the most of your time at the University of Nottingham.
This page details everything you need to know about managing your finances - covering typical living costs, accommodation options and practical budgeting tips to help you stay on track.
The fees you pay for your course.
Explore the range of support available.
Your living costs will vary depending on your accommodation and lifestyle.
If you require a student visa, you must show funds of at least £1,136 per month for 9 months (£10,224) in addition to tuition fees.
The student visa fee is £490.
You will also be required to pay an Immigration Health Charge of £776 per year of study*.
If you have any dependent family members applying with you, they will also need to pay the same amount.
Medical insurance can also cover any unexpected costs due to illness.
Banking and money
Accommodation fees
Did you know as an international student, you can usually work up to 20 hours a week on your student visa?
This is a fantastic way to support yourself whilst gaining valuable experience.
We have plenty of opportunities available to fit around your studies and give your career a head start with JobZone.
Guide to working and studying in the UK

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/scholarships-funding-finance/international-scholarships.aspx:
Our scholarships help outstanding international students make a positive impact in their studies and careers.
Banking and money in the UK

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/scholarships-funding-finance/undergraduate-scholarships.aspx:
We offer a range of undergraduate scholarships for international students from all countries.
We also welcome students funded by external scholarships.
The International Undergraduate Excellence Award is the University of Nottingham’s scholarship award, designed to support international students who demonstrate academic excellence and true passion for their chosen field of study.
Each awards covers a contribution towards tuition fees in the first year of an undergraduate degree programme at Nottingham.
If you are an international student currently studying in the UK, you should apply for the UK International Excellence Award .
If you are an international student currently studying at one of the University of Nottingham's Partner Institutions, you should apply for the Undergraduate International Partnership Excellence Award .
Make sure to check individual pages for their application deadlines.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/scholarships-funding-finance/masters-scholarships.aspx:
We offer a range of postgraduate masters scholarships for international students from all countries.
Developing Solutions is our flagship masters scholarship for students from Africa and developing Commonwealth countries.
GREAT Scholarships – in partnership with the British Council and GREAT Britain campaign – are available for students from China, Mexico, Pakistan orTurkey.
A 15% tuition fee scholarship towards masters courses for eligible graduates from our international campuses in China and Malaysia.
The International Postgraduate Excellence Award is the University of Nottingham’s scholarship award, designed to support international students who have achieved academic excellence and show true passion for their chosen field of study.
Each award covers a contribution of between £2,000 - £8,000 towards tuition fees for a full-time postgraduate masters degree programme at the University of Nottingham.
Please note that you must hold an offer to study before you can apply for this scholarship.
Regions covered:
If you are an international student currently studying at one of the University of Nottingham's Partnership Institutions, you should apply for the Postgraduate Partnership Excellence Award .
Search for postgraduate courses
Why choose Nottingham?

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/scholarships-funding-finance/research-scholarships.aspx:
We offer scholarships for international students, and we welcome students funded by external scholarships.
China Scholarship Council Research Excellence Scholarship
Please check the webpage for eligibility information and deadlines.
Commonwealth PhD Scholarships
We also offer a range of sports scholarships for elite athletes, including our International Sporting Excellence Award .
Explore your options using our postgraduate funding search

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/Sport/Performance-Sport/Sports-Scholarships/index.aspx:
Find out more about our excellent scholarship packages below or complete the expression of interest form so we can get in touch with more information.
Express your interest in UoN Sport
If you are interested in joining the performance sport programme at the University of Nottingham, please complete the expression of interest form linked above.
Once completed, one of our team will be in touch.
As well as a reputation for academic excellence, we have a history of sporting success and are passionate about supporting promising athletes during their time at Nottingham.
We have three sports scholarship packages as well as a range of specialist options.
Please see below for details of what each package includes - please note financial awards denote the maximum award at each level and may vary.
All scholars receive University of Nottingham Kit including a branded scholarship jacket, training jersey and backpack from Official Technial Supplier, PlayerLayer .
£13,000
Take a closer look at our world-class training facilities right on your doorstep on campus.
Learn more about our athlete support services in our Performance Sport Guide.
An introduction to your UoN Sport scholars for 2023-24 academic year.
To be eligible for a sports scholarship you must:
be of academy, national or international standard in your sport or show strong evidence of future outstanding potential
successfully achieve a place on a course at The University of Nottingham or be already studying here (all courses are eligible, both undergraduate and postgraduate)
be a home, EU or international student at The University of Nottingham studying at least 60 credits a year.
Priority is given to Olympic, Paralympic and Commonwealth sports and/or sports within the BUCS programme .
O ther sports considered on a case-by-case basis.
For students applying for Medicine courses (A100, A108 and A101), applicants who are identified as ‘Elite/High-Performance Athletes’ by the University of Nottingham will be fast tracked to interview providing they meet the standard minimum academic and UCAT/GAMSAT requirements.
Applicants must have completed the expression of interest form prior to the 1st December in the respective academic cycle.
Please note, meeting the criteria does not guarantee you will receive a scholarship.
See our Scholarship Terms and Conditions for more information.
We're offering a range of undergraduate and postgraduate scholarships for table tennis or badminton athletes from China.
Dr Deng Yaping won 18 world championships and four Olympic gold medals during her career.
She was named Chinese Athlete of the Century and is one of the greatest table tennis players of all time.
She also completed a masters degree at the University of Nottingham, graduating in 2003.
The University launched this scholarship in 2013, with Deng Yaping's support, to honour her achievements and to help Chinese athletes achieve their academic and sporting ambitions.
Find out more about the Deng Yaping Scholarship
We actively encourage prospective and current students competing at an elite level within disability sport to apply for a sports scholarship at The University of Nottingham.
We have a dedicated Disability Sport Officer to offer comprehensive personalised support to our disabled student athletes.
Please register your interest here
We're offering scholarships of £1000-7000 towards full-time tuition fees for international students at any study level with outstanding sporting ability.
These International Sporting Excellence Awards are separate from our package of sports scholarships at bronze, silver and gold level.
To apply for this scholarship, you must:
In partnership with elite swimming club Nova Centurion , University of Nottingham Sport are offering seven swimming and para-swimming scholarships to University of Nottingham students.
Scholarships include free access to the Nova Centurion performance swim programme, regular training in a 50m pool and a Speedo training kit sponsorship package worth £1500.
Founded in 1979 in memory of Sheila Armstrong by her husband, Dr George Brown, Reader in University Teaching Methods, her mother, Mrs.
Edith Armstrong, family and friends, the Sheila Armstrong prize awards £200 annually to an undergraduate or postgraduate students who has contributed substantially to the sporting activities of the University of Nottingham and who has displayed strength of purpose and courage.
Sheila Armstrong was a British international tennis player, a member of the Wightman Cup team and a winner of the 1955 Junior Wimbledon tournament (bt.
Béatrice de Chambure, 6–2, 6–4).
As a mature student she obtained a first class honours degree and died tragically whilst completing her PhD.
Sheila is pictured above (left), weight training alongside fellow GB teamate and three-time grand slam winner Shirley Bloomer.
David Ross Sports Village University of Nottingham University Park Nottingham, NG7 2RD
telephone: +44 (0)115 74 87000 email: sport@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/International-applicants/scholarships-funding-finance/US-Federal-Aid/index.aspx:
The University of Nottingham is eligible to certify Federal Direct Loan applications for students studying at our UK campuses.
Nicola May is responsible for administering US loans for study at the University of Nottingham, guiding you through the process from application to disbursement.
Contact Nicola by email
Federal funds available to students studying at a 'foreign school'.
Guidance regarding the loan application process.
Find out if your chosen programme is eligible.
Find out about scholarships for study at the University.
See answers to some of the most frequently asked questions.
See additional information you may find helpful.
Guidance regarding the application process for benefits.
Information for students from the United States of America.
Consumer information the University is required to provide.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/International-applicants/scholarships-funding-finance/Canada-student-loans/index.aspx:
Student loans are offered by the Government of Canada to help students pay for post-secondary education.
Funding is offered to eligible students in most provinces and territories.
Nicola May is responsible for Canadian loan administration for study at the University of Nottingham UK campuses .
Overview of the loan application process and funding provided.
Find out how we can support you, including loan form completion.
Information for students from Canada.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/scholarships-funding-finance/faq.aspx:
This page aims to answer some of the most frequently asked questions about our international scholarships.
If you cannot find an answer to your question here, please email the International Scholarships Team .
You may also find our scholarship application guidance notes helpful.
Please note that there is a strict word count limit for all questions, which is outlined at the end of each question.
The system does not automatically limit this, so you would be encouraged to check your application before you submit.
Any responses submitted that exceed the outlined word count may not be reviewed.
I am interested in applying for a scholarship.
When will I be able to apply?
To apply for an international scholarship, you must hold an offer to start a full-time course at the University of Nottingham UK in the relevant academic year.
When you have received your offer to study with us, you can apply through the scholarships section of our application system, NottinghamHub .
You will only be able to view a scholarship on the 'Finance' tab of NottinghamHub if you meet the eligibility criteria, and only when scholarship applications are open.
Applications close at midnight (UK time) on the dates shown – please see the individual scholarship information pages for closing dates and eligible course start dates.
You may apply for more than one scholarship if you meet the eligibility criteria for each scholarship.
For example, if you are from a certain country you could be eligible to apply for one of our regional, subject or study level scholarships.
To maximise the reach of the university's international scholarships, it is not possible to combine an international scholarship with other competitive University of Nottingham scholarships.
In the unlikely event that you are offered multiple awards, the single highest-value award would apply.
We reserve the right to withdraw an international scholarship, where students are in receipt of multiple awards.
No, to apply for an International Student Recruitment scholarship you must already have an offer of a place to study here for the relevant academic year.
Separate information about applying to study can be found on our undergraduate webpages or postgraduate webpages .
Research and masters study applications must be received at least six weeks before the scholarship closing date.
This is to allow time for our admissions office to process the application and confirm your offer, before you can apply for the scholarship.
Any application for admission to study submitted later than six weeks before the scholarship closing date is not guaranteed to be processed in time.
Undergraduate applicants need to make their application by the UCAS given deadline.
Yes, you can apply if you are holding a conditional or an unconditional offer.
Your NottinghamHub ID number and password - you can find this in your offer letter.
Click on the finance tab to access the scholarships available to you.
You can save your scholarship application and go back into update or delete any part of it, at any stage until it closes.
Applications cannot be amended once the scholarships have closed for applications.
The university starts assessing International Student Recruitment scholarship applications once the closing date has passed.
Scholarship applications are carefully assessed by a staff panel and are not awarded on a first come first served basis.
Please note that you will receive an email to confirm the outcome of your scholarship application once the final results are known; this will normally take place within six weeks of the closing date.
It will affect your scholarship application if the level of study, or the course you change to, is not eligible for the scholarship that you have applied for.
If you are awarded a scholarship you should let us know if you change your course so that we can confirm your scholarship status and update our records.
We do not have any scholarships available for current students.
You will only be able to apply for our scholarships if you have a confirmed offer of study to register onto a new degree course for the relevant academic year.
Online Scholarship Application (OSA) status guidance for applicants:
Workflow Order
Status
Meaning
1
“Student submitted”
Application submitted and waiting for review
“On hold”
Application submitted and waiting for review and needs an additional review of offer details by Professional Services staff
2
“Review approval”
Application subject to an initial review and waiting for final decision
3
“Approved”
Confirmation of final decision (+)
“Rejected”
Confirmation of final decision (-)
Yes.
Some of the University’s schools and departments also offer scholarships.
Please look up your chosen course on our undergraduate webpages or postgraduate webpages .
Check the ‘funding’ tab for details of funding opportunities which may be available.
No.
You will not be able to defer your scholarship.
You should apply again for our scholarships the following year and you will need to have a confirmed offer for the new scholarship year.
You should contact your school or the admissions office to ensure you can defer your offer and have it confirmed.
Your scholarship's value may change if you have changed course.
Please also note that the tuition fee quoted in your offer letter is provisional and your actual fee will be confirmed online, this may affect the amount of scholarship you are entitled to.
If successful, once your tuition fee scholarship has been awarded in your NottinghamHub, your tuition fee scholarship should be reflected on the CAS you are issued, or, if you received your scholarship after you have received your CAS, the CAS will be updated.
You will receive a system generated notification once any financial update to your CAS has been applied.
If you cannot see your scholarship information on your CAS after it has been awarded in NottinghamHub, please follow the procedure on the CAS checking document for how to report errors/omissions.
If you are relying on the scholarship information to meet the financial requirements of the Student Visa process then please do not submit your Student Visa application online until you have received confirmation that the full scholarship has been added to your CAS .
If you apply for your visa before you have this confirmation, you may receive a visa refusal.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/scholarships-funding-finance/guidance-notes.aspx:
To help you make the most of your scholarship application, the guidance notes below should help you plan your responses to the scholarship application form.
Word count: When answering questions with a word limit, make sure that you keep to the word limit and don’t exceed it.
Any responses that exceed the word limit may not be assessed.
Prepare your responses in a word document first before submitting on the form if you think you might go over the limit.
Be prepared: Read the questions carefully and take your time to ensure you answer the questions fully.
We want to hear about you.
Don’t give generic responses.
Plagiarism: Ensure that your answers are your own.
Don’t copy and paste responses.
Ensure that any sources are acknowledged, as you would in an academic context.
Accuracy: Scholarships are assessed and awarded based on the information provided in your online scholarship application.
We reserve the right to withdraw a scholarship, if we are of the reasonable opinion that information provided is not accurate.
As a guide, here are examples of some of the questions that you’ll be expected to complete as part of our online scholarship application form.
Note that not all questions apply to all scholarships.
How does the academic programme you've applied for align with your academic and career aspirations?
(Applicable to Undergraduate and Postgraduate Academic Excellence Awards, Undergraduate and Postgraduate International Excellence Awards, and GREAT)
We want to understand why you've chosen this specific academic programme and how it aligns to your personal academic and career aspirations.
What is it about the specific course that interests you personally?
Are there any particular modules that you're particularly interested in studying and why?
Do your career goals align with a module we teach?
Are you drawn to this course because of specific academic staff or facilities?
If so, give details.
Remember to link your responses back to the original question.
What are your expectations of the university, and how do you feel being part of the university community will help you to achieve your academic or career aspirations?
What is it about the University of Nottingham that attracts you, and how do you feel that being part of the university community will help to achieve your goals?
Be specific.
We want to hear about your personal expectations and anticipated contributions.
How do your academic achievements to date demonstrate that you should be selected for this scholarship?
Remember, we're looking for evidence of academic excellence.
Tell us what makes you stand out from your peers academically (either within school/university or any extra-curricular academic undertakings) and why you should be selected for this scholarship.
Have you won any academic prizes or received commendations relevant to your chosen degree programme?
If yes, please give details.
(Applicable to Undergraduate and Postgraduate Academic Excellence Awards, Undergraduate and Postgraduate International Excellence Awards)
Only include evidence which is relevant to your academic programme of study.
Do not include evidence of non-academic prizes.
How will your masters' studies at the University of Nottingham enable you to make a developmental impact on your home country, in line with the criteria of the scholarship?
(Applicable to Developing Solutions Scholarship only)
Please note that as part of the review process, responses to this question will be prioritised.
Only candidates with satisfactory responses to this first question in line with the Developing Solutions scholarship criteria will be put forward for full application review.
Be specific and realistic.
We want to hear about how your chosen course will contribute to your ability to make a developmental impact.
Are there any specific learning outcomes from the course that will facilitate this?
What developmental impact are you hoping to achieve?
What is your plan and how do you intend to implement it.
What are the expected outcomes?
You may want to focus on localised development impacts, for example, specifically within your area of work or localised community/region, in conjunction with the UN's Sustainable Development Goals .
How will your University of Nottingham degree support your future career objectives?
We want to hear about your future career objectives.
Be specific on how your degree will support this.
You may want to outline your future career objectives, don’t generalise - what are these, and what are your short to medium-term plans?

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/scholarships-funding-finance/termsconditions.aspx:
Please read this webpage carefully and ensure that you understand the conditions of the scholarship you have applied for.
The University of Nottingham reserves the right to withdraw your scholarship if you are subsequently found to be ineligible or if these terms and conditions are not adhered to.
The University also reserves the right to amend its scholarship provision without notice.
As an International Student Recruitment scholarship holder, you must:
Agree to the University of Nottingham contacting you during the period approximately two years after your graduation for an update on how the scholarship has influenced your career.
Your data will also be passed to our Alumni Team who retain data in support of your lifelong relationship with the University (see Alumni Privacy information).
For queries or to remove your data from the Alumni database please contact alumnienquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
Undergraduate scholarships are only offered for the first year of study.
Masters scholarships are awarded for one year only.
Other scholarships vary so please check the individual pages for further details.
Scholarships are not automatically extendable if you extend your studies.
Scholarships are awarded based on the information provided in your online scholarship application and your academic application.
International scholarships are available to self-funded students only.
If you are sponsored by an external funding body, e.g.
government, business, employer, trust or charity, you are not eligible to apply (with the exception of our Developing Solutions Scholarship).
International scholarships cannot be combined with other competitive University scholarships.
Where you are awarded multiple scholarships, the single highest-value award will be applied.
Tuition fee scholarships will be deducted from the tuition fees charged to you as a student at Nottingham, split across your payment instalments.
We will not pay tuition fee scholarships to you directly.
No cash alternatives are available if the total funding you have been awarded is in excess of the tuition fee.
You may be required to repay the scholarship amount, in full or pro-rata, if you withdraw from your course before completion.
Scholarships cannot be deferred to the following academic year, even if your academic offer is deferred.
If you decide to defer your studies at Nottingham, you should apply again for our scholarships the following year once you have an offer for the new academic year.
There is no guarantee that we will offer the same scholarships each year, or that you will be offered a scholarship again after reapplying.
The University's decision relating to international scholarships is final.
Where a scholarship is co-funded with an external organisation or donor, we will pass on details (name, title of award, course title, academic school) to the external organisation for the purpose of selection and reporting.
Your contact details will not be given to an external organisation or donor without your prior consent.
See our privacy policy for further information on how the University of Nottingham processes your personal data.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/scholarships-funding-finance/external-scholarships.aspx:
We welcome students funded by a variety of sponsors and funding schemes.
Here you can find out about some of the sources of funding you could apply for.
As well as the information on our website, there are a variety of online scholarship search tools to help you find funding opportunities, including:
When looking for scholarships online, always try to find out about the organisations offering them if you're not familiar with them.
Avoid websites or scholarship providers with a bad reputation, unreasonable terms or suspicious instructions such as asking you for payments or bank details.
We've noted scholarship and funding providers for individual countries in our country-specific information webpages.
The scholarships and funding sources listed below are available to students across many countries.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/scholarships-funding-finance/fees.aspx:
Tuition fees by study level can be found on our fees and finance webpages .
Please check the year of study to ensure you have the correct information.
Once you have accepted your offer to study at Nottingham, you will be able to access the online payment section of your student or applicant portal .
Here, you can pay your tuition fees by bank transfer or credit/debit card.
Payment options
If you are applying for a Tier 4 visa, tuition fee payments should be included on your CAS.
If you make a payment after receiving your CAS, you will receive an automated email to confirm that your CAS has been updated with fee payments and we advise you to wait for this confirmation before applying for your Tier 4 visa application.
Visa guidance
If you have an official sponsor such as an overseas government, business, charity or trust, you must email your official sponsorship letter to our sponsorship team prior to, or at, registration via sponsorship-assistant@nottingham.ac.uk .
We will then issue tuition fee invoices to your sponsor.
The sponsorship letter must confirm that your sponsor agrees to pay your tuition fees for the full duration of your academic programme.
If your sponsor issues revised sponsorship letters on an annual basis, it is your responsibility to ensure that updated letters are submitted prior to the start of each academic year.
If you are spending one or two semesters at Nottingham, whether or not you pay fees – and how much – will depend on the programme you are taking part in.
For details, see our exchange and study abroad information .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studentservices/welcome/international-students/banking-and-money.aspx:
Welcome information for international students
Opening a UK bank account provides a safe and convenient place for your money, supports your visa application and allows you to get paid for any work you do in the UK more easily.
When you arrive in the UK to study with us, you should open a UK bank account to manage your money.
You can also open an app-based or online bank account before you arrive.
There are several banks to choose from, so read on for our advice on selecting the best one for you.
In addition to banking, it is very important that you keep your money safe while in the UK, and we have a team who can help you with this.
We also suggest planning a budget to manage your student finances, ensuring you have what you need each month while studying in Nottingham.
Opening a bank account in the UK helps you avoid exchange rates and international withdrawal fees.
It also makes it easier to get paid for any work and to pay bills.
Most UK banks offer accounts to international students, with a wide range of options available in Nottingham.
Banks in the UK will ask for proof of your student status and UK address before you can open an account.
This means you will have to have completed your university registration first.
Steps to open a UK bank account:
1.
Research : before you arrive, research banks to find one that suits your needs.
2.
Register : complete university registration when you get here, and contact your chosen bank to begin setting up an account.
3.
Evidence : provide proof of identity (passport) and proof of your student status and UK address.
You can request a letter from Student Services using the link below.
You may need to visit the bank in person to give them this information.
4.
Request : ask for a letter for your chosen bank from Student Services, and work with the bank to finish setting up your account.
Request a letter for your bank
5.
Update : If you are receiving a bursary or scholarship from the university, update your bank details on NottinghamHub once your account is set up.
You may want to consider opening an online bank account where there is no need to request a letter from Student Services or visit a branch in person.
Consider the following when choosing a bank:
There are three main types of UK bank accounts useful for students:
Here are some of the banks you will find in the UK, with branches in Nottingham city centre.
We are sharing this information to help you research these banks – we cannot recommend specific banks to you.
Online-only banks include:
Planning your finances ensures you have enough funds for studies, living costs and leisure activities.
Click on the link below for guidance on budget planning, keeping your money safe and accessing your funds easily while studying in Nottingham.
How to manage your money effectively

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/english-language/english-language.aspx:
Using and understanding English at a high level is essential for your studies with us.
You must submit evidence of your English language ability when you apply.
The exact English language requirements vary across our courses, and there are different ways you can demonstrate your English ability, depending on the courses and tests you have taken previously.
This page provides an overview of our English language policies for applicants.
For full details, see our policies on minimum English language entry requirements and alternative English language qualifications in the Quality Manual.
If you're a native English speaker, or you have studied in an English-speaking country or institution, we may be able to accept your academic qualifications as evidence of your English language ability.
You will meet our English language entry requirements for degree programmes if you have:
If you have completed a degree course which was split between multiple countries or universities, the following rules will apply:
If you haven't taken any qualifications meeting the criteria listed above, you will need to provide an English language test result, such as IELTS, PTE or TOEFL.
See below for further guidance.
We accept a variety of English language tests and qualifications.
The International English Language Testing System (IELTS) Academic test is one of the most common.
The IELTS test includes grades in listening, reading, writing and speaking, plus an overall grade.
IELTS requirements for each of our courses are listed in our course listings.
We also accept Pearson Test of English (PTE) and TOEFL (IBT) test certificates.
Check the table below against the IELTS requirement listed in our course listings to see what grade you will need.
You can also meet our entry requirements through a presessional English course with our Centre for English Language Education (CELE).
IELTS, PTE and TOEFL test certificates must date from within the last two years before the course you are applying for.
As well as these English tests, we can accept a variety of other English language qualifications from around the world.
See our policy on minimum English language entry requirements and our equivalencies tables for full details.
If your current test scores at the time you apply don't meet the English requirements for your chosen course, but you meet the academic requirements, we may make you a conditional offer with an English language condition.
You would then need to take another English language test to meet our requirements, or successfully complete one of our presessional English courses at the required level, before beginning the degree course.
You can take a presessional English course at our Centre for English Language Education (CELE) to help you develop your English language ability to the level needed for our degree courses, and to prepare for academic study with us.
CELE is accredited by the British Council for the teaching of English in the UK.
CELE's presessional courses provide quality preparation for your academic study, teaching you academic skills in addition to English language skills.
If you complete your presessional course at the required level, you can then progress to your degree course and won't need to retake IELTS or any other English language test.
Entry requirements for presessional English courses vary depending on the length of the course and your target score.
Find out more in our CELE webpages .
Due to the extra student visa rules for courses below degree level, you will normally need to have an IELTS for UKVI (Academic) certificate for presessional English courses taught on our campus.
For further guidance, and for online presessional courses, see our CELE webpages .
There are some extra student visa rules for courses below degree level.
This means that any students who will need a Student route visa (formerly known as a Tier 4 student visa) applying for a one-year programme must provide an English test certificate classed by the UK's Home Office as a Secure English Language Test (SELT) at level B1, under the UK's Visas and Immigration (UKVI) policies.
For students taking their test outside the UK, we accept these SELT tests:
Note that we do not ordinarily accept LanguageCert for entry at the University of Nottingham.
See above for guidance on our temporary policy on LanguageCert following the Covid-19 pandemic.
If you do not require a student visa you will not need to provide a SELT and we can accept other English language tests and qualifications such as a non-UKVI IELTS or PTE test, TOEFL iBT.
Integrated foundation courses in medicine, nursing and midwifery, physiotherapy, sports rehabilitation, and veterinary medicine and science do not require a SELT as they are part of a continuous programme which includes a degree.
See our policy on minimum English language entry requirements for details of the IELTS requirements for these courses.
Note that many of these courses are not available to international students.
For foundation courses at the University of Nottingham International College, see Kaplan's website for entry requirements and English language entry levels.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/english-language/english-language-equivalencies.aspx:
We accept a wide variety of qualifications and tests as evidence of English language ability.
Check the tables below to find the grades or scores required for your course.
See our English language requirements page for general guidance on our typical requirements, including how we recognise applicants who have studied in English speaking countries.
Use the tables below to find out the equivalent grade you would need to match this IELTS score in other English tests or qualifications.
Last updated November 2024.
IELTS for UKVI Academic
Must have been taken within the last two years.
Will accept IELTs One Skill Retake.
6.0 with no less than 5.5 in each element
6.5 with no less than 6.0 in each element
7.0 with no less than 6.0 in each element
Language Cert SELT
We do not accept non -ELT Language Cert.
SELT B2 Communicator – 39 overall with no less than 33 in any
skills (out of 50)
SELT B2 Communicator – 65 overall with no less and 60 in any skill (Out of 100
SELT B2 Communicator – 45 overall with no less than 39 in any
SELT B2 Communicator – 70 overall with no less and 65 in any skill (Out of 100)
SELT C1 Expert – 33 overall with no less than 33 in any skills (out of
50)
SELT C1 Expert – 75 overall with no less and 65 in any skill (Out of 100)
PTE Academic UKVI
65 (minimum 59)
71 (minimum 65)
76 (minimum 65)
(7.5 IELTS with no less than 7.0 in each element requires 79
(minimum 76))
Trinity College London ISE (Integrated Skills in English)
We do not accept 'best scores' i.e the best scores in each element across multiple tests.
ISE II Merit overall with no lower that ISE II Pass in any level
ISE II Distinction overall with no lower that ISE II Merit in any level
ISE III Pass overall
6.0 with no less than 5.5 in each element
6.5 with no less than 6.0 in each element
GCE A Level English Language or English Literature
GCE AS Level English Language or English Literature
Cambridge International AS Level English General Paper
Cambridge International Level 2 Certificate
We do not accept 'best scores' i.e the best scores in each element across multiple tests.
Cambridge Proficiency/Advanced test (CAE) (from January 2015)
169 with no element below 162
184 with no element below 169
190 with no element below 169
(7.5 IELTS with no less than 7.0 in each component requires 191 with no element below 185)
GCSE / IGCSE / O Level English Language or English Literature (including as a first or second language – except for IGCSE as a second language – see below)
C / 4
B / 6
IELTS (Academic version taken in person)
IELTs One Skill Retake is accepted.
IELTs Online is not accepted.
IGCSE Second Language English
A / 7
International Baccalaureate English A1 or A2 or English Literature (Standard or Higher Level)
4
5
International Baccalaureate English B (Higher Level)
International Baccalaureate English B (Standard Level)
6
European Baccalaureate (first or second language)
7
Kaplan Foundation English Test (KITE)
When taken as part of full Kaplan academic programme.
Marks shown are for Academic English element.
60% (min 55%)
65% (min 60%)
70% (min 60%)
Occupational English Test (OET)
250 in each element
300 in each element
350 in each element
PTE Academic
We do not accept 'best scores' i.e the best scores in each element across multiple of tests.
(7.5 IELTS with no less than 7.0 in each element requires 79 (minimum
76)
Study Group Foundation courses
Marks shown are for Academic English Skills element.
50% (min 40)
60% (min 50)
70% (min 50)
TOEFL (IBT)
Taken within the last two years.
We do not accept: TOEFL Home Edition or 'best scores' i.e.
the best scores in each element across multiple tests.
80 (minimum 17 in Writing and Listening, 18 in Reading and 20 in speaking)
90 (minimum 19 in Writing and
Listening, 20 in Reading and 22 in
Speaking)
100 (minimum 19 in Writing and
University of Nottingham Malaysia or China Campus
Satisfactory completion of 2 years at UNMC or UNNC
Satisfactory completion of 2 years at
UNMC or UNNC
University of Reading TEEP
University degrees from an overseas campus of a recognised university of a majority English speaking country
These will be accepted on a case by case basis where the course at the overseas campus is taught and assessed entirely in English and awarded by the home university
Russell Group* universities' English language assessments (CELE equivalent)
We accept other Russell Groups' English Language tests (CELE equivalents) on a case by case basis where there are clear IELTS equivalencies and testing in all four elements and this course is undertaken at the University and not an affiliated private provider.
* For a list of Russell group universities please visit the Russell Group website .
all
Austria
Matura / Reifeprufung
2 (gut) when both written and oral exams have been taken
Belgium
Abschlusszeugnis der Oberstufe des Sekundarunterrichts (German speaking)
Certificat d'Enseignement Secondaire Superieur (CESS) (French speaking)
Diploma van Secundair Onderwijs (previously Getuigschrift) (Dutch speaking)
8 / 80% or Grote avec grande distinction
Bermuda
Bermuda Secondary School Certificate
Botswana
Botswana GCSE (BGCSE)
Brunei
O-Level
Cameroon
O level
Canada
English 11/English 12 (Alberta, New Brunswick, Newfoundland, North West Territories, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island, Saskatchewan – General High School Diploma; British Colombia, Yukon – Senior Secondary Graduation Diploma; Manitoba – High School Graduation Diploma, Ontario)
English 11 or 12 – 75%
English 11 or 12 – 81%
Caribbean
CXC CSEC English A
Denmark
Stundentereksamen
Finland
Ylioppilastutkintotodis tus
5 (magna cum laude approbatur)
France
French Baccalaureat (General) – to 2020
14 (bien) where the co-efficient applied to the subject is greater than 1
14 (bien) where the co-efficient  applied to the subject is greater than 1
French Baccalaureat (General) – from 2021
14 (bien)
French Bacclaureate (OIB/BFI)
12/20
Germany
Abitur – Leistungskurse, (LK) or Leistungsfacher, (LF)
12 (gut)
13 (sehr gut)
Abitur – Grundkurse (GK)/ Grundfacher (GF) (must be taken as an Abitur exam)
14 (sehr gut)
Ghana
WAEC / WASSCE NECO / iGCSE
C 6
C 5
B 3
Hong Kong
HKCEE HKDSE – core English Language (from 2012)
Iceland
Studentsprof
8 when taken as a compulsory language
India
Standard XII ISC and CBSE Boards only
70%
75%
80%
Standard X
ISC and CBSE Boards
61%-70% B2
7.0
71%-80% B1
8.0
71%-80% B1 8.0
Ireland
Leaving Cert English (Ordinary Level)
O4
O3
Leaving Cert English (Advanced Level)
H4
H3
Italy
Diploma di Esame di Stato (formerly Diploma di Maturita)
80% in English as a second language
90% in English as a second language
Kenya
KCSE / iGCSE (or equivalent)
Luxembourg
Diplome de Fin d'Etudes Secondaires
45 (bien)
Malaysia
UCLES 1119 Syllabus (pre 2021)
6C or C
4B or B
1A or A
CEFR (post 2021)
B2
C1
Malta
IGCSE or Secondary Education Certificate
Secondary Education Certificate Examinations (SEC)
B / 2
Netherlands
VWO
8 (goed)
Nigeria and West Africa
WAEC / WASSCE
NECO / iGCSE
C6
C5
B3
Norway
Vitnemal
Scotland
Advanced Higher or Higher English
Singapore
Secondary Four English Language or Language Arts (for IP students)
C or CAP 2.0
B or CAP 3.0
South Africa
South African National Senior Certificate (SANSC – 'matric') IEB or gov board
5 or C
6 or B
Spain
Título de Bachillerato (or Curso de Orientación Universitaria / COU)
8/10 in English as a second language
9/10 in English as a second language
Sweden
Slutbetyg fran Gymnasieskol a/Komvux (until 2013)
VG (val godkant)
Högskoleförb eredande Examen English 7 (since 2014)
VG (val godkant) / B
Switzerland
Maturita
5 (gut/bien/bene)
Uganda
UCE / IGCSE (or equivalent)
USA
US High School Diploma (English Grade)
Year 11 Grade C/2.0/70%
Year 11 Grade B/3.0/80%
SATr Evidence Based Reading & Writing
Minimum score of 500
Minimum score of 600
ACT English
Minimum score of 26
Minimum score of 27
SAT Subject Test English Literature
Minimum score of 650
AP English Literature and Composition
Grade 3 or above
Grade 4 or above
AP English Language and Composition
If a country is not listed here please refer to the guidance on our country-specific information pages.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/CELE/index.aspx:
Accredited by the British Council for the teaching of English in the UK.
The Centre for English Language Education helps develop your academic skills and language before you start university, preparing you for the demands of academic study in a range of disciplines at all levels.
Take your academic and language skills to the level required for your degree.
Continue to develop your academic skills while studying your degree.
Online study is available for our pre-sessional English for Academic Purposes courses.
Students taking an online course will not need to travel to the UK.
These modules are available to students studying particular courses, to enhance language skills and develop specialist knowledge that is relevant to your degree.
The Centre for English Language Education team has colleagues from many different countries, many of whom are multilingual and are experts in English language teaching.
Join us on Weibo
School of Education Facebook
School of Education X (formerly Twitter)

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/International-applicants/English-language/ielts/IELTS.aspx:
Apply online now
Email
Facebook
Twitter
B Floor, Exchange Building Jubilee Campus, Wollaton Road Nottingham, NG8 1AW, UK
t: +44 (0) 115 951 4419 email: ielts@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/why-study-in-the-uk:
With a strong reputation for research, innovation and creativity, British universities attract some of the world’s leading academics and many of its brightest students.
Degrees from English language institutions are highly regarded around the world and Britain's higher education system is renowned for high academic standards.
Discover the stories of students and academics who joined universities in the UK from all over the world: #WeAreInternational .
By studying in Britain, you will develop a valuable perspective on the world we live in.
Studying in another country can give you an edge in a competitive global job market and demonstrates that you are mature and adaptable.
If you are thinking ahead to your career plans, many degree courses at British universities are shorter than equivalent courses in other countries.
For example, most bachelors degree courses can be completed within three years.
Mastering the English language is a skill you can use around the world.
Whether you struggle with English or are nearly fluent, our Centre for English Language Education offers a range of options for you to develop your English skills.
Many students choose the UK as a place to live and study because of Britain's famous history and culture, along with its welcoming and multicultural society.
The beautiful countryside and easy transport links provide exciting travel opportunities for vacation periods.
Research into attitudes towards international students in the UK found high levels of integration and acceptance .
#WeAreInternational is a social media campaign bringing together universities across the UK who are committed to maintaining a diverse, inclusive community.
International students often find that the British style of teaching is different from what they are used to.
Learning is interactive and you will be encouraged to contribute ideas and think for yourself.
This will develop valuable skills for career and personal development.
Read tips and advice on our International Student Life blog
English people are so polite!
I love that so much about England, I think it is something about which we can all learn.
I also think that English people take very good care of their heritage sites, gardens and everything in general and that they are always looking for ways to improve what they do.
Andrea Garduno Jiminez, BEng Environmental Engineering

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/international-student-life:
With a community of over 40,000 students from more than 150 countries, the University of Nottingham is a truly global university.
Your student experience is about much more than studying.
Here, we highlight some of the opportunities you can take advantage of while studying with us as an international student.
Our Students' Union hosts over 200 student societies .
Choose from hobbies, sports and volunteering.
There are cultural, national and religious societies, providing a way to connect with other students.
Our Chaplaincy Team provide faith support and facilities for individual faith communities.
This includes a chapel, Muslim prayer rooms and multi-faith prayer rooms.
Nottingham is a great city for students and is home to a diverse community of residents from many cultures.
The Careers and Employability Service will help you to develop the skills and experiences to achieve your career goals.
Nottingham Advantage Award aims to build on your extracurricular interests and for career development.
Studying in another country during your Nottingham degree programme – through an exchange programme or summer school – is a great way to broaden your university experience.
Each year, we recruit international and EU students to support us as International Student Ambassadors.
This role provides an opportunity to share your experiences of life at Nottingham and gain experience.
Support available for couples and families includes:
Host UK is a national charity, providing international students with the opportunity to meet British people and enjoy their hospitality by making a weekend visit to their home.
If you are interested, you can apply to take part directly through the HOST UK website .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/visa-help:
If you need a visa to study at the University, our dedicated visas and immigration team is here to help.
Use our visa guidance webpages to plan and prepare your UK visa application, and understand your responsibilities.
If you can't find the answers to your visa questions, or you need more guidance, contact our immigration advisers.
Contact an immigration adviser
Book an appointment to meet with an immigration adviser via video call
t: +44 (0)115 84 66125 t: immigration-support@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/eu:
Although Britain has now left the European Union, our University will remain a community devoted to global education, diversity and mobility.
We will maintain our global connections and partnerships for teaching, research and student exchanges, reaching from our campuses in the UK, China and Malaysia to many other countries across Europe and the world beyond.
All our students – current and future – can be assured that Nottingham will remain an ambitious global university where world-class academics produce world-leading research, where students from around the globe enjoy an unforgettable student experience together, and where degree courses lead to life-changing opportunities and careers.
Information on applying to study with us after Brexit
Information for students who are already studying with us
Collaboration within the European Union
UK Government guidance for EU students Home Office partner pack (pdf)
Information for students from your country
UKCISA guide to fees and student support UKCISA guidance on immigration
t: +44 (0) 115 951 5247 f: +44 (0) 115 951 5155 e: europe-team@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/working-in-the-uk:
You may wish to take on part-time work to meet new friends and earn extra money while you are studying in the UK.
However, as a Student visa holder there are some important rules and regulations to be aware of.
Most Student visa holders are permitted to work part-time, for up to 20 hours a week during term time and full-time work during your vacation periods.
Recognised vacation periods are different depending on the course you are studying.
Postgraduate students should check with an immigration adviser before undertaking full-time work.
If you are studying a course below UK degree level, such as foundation or presessional English, you are only allowed to work 10 hours per week.
Students holding short-term study visas cannot work in the UK.
If you require a Student visa, you will not be able to rely on expected income from part-time work to demonstrate how you will afford to live and study in the UK.
For further information on working, see:
If you are a Student Visa holder, you will have the following restrictions:
If you have obtained 'settled' or 'pre-settled' status under the UK's EU Settlement Scheme, then you can live, study and work in the UK freely with this immigration status, and you will not require a Student visa.
Irish nationals have the right to live and work in the UK, under the UK-Ireland Common Travel Area arrangements.
Irish students will not need to apply for a student or graduate visa.
Student visa information
In some cases, students can stay in the UK after completing a degree course and take on paid employment.
The Graduate visa allows those who meet the eligibility criteria to work in the UK for up to two years after their degree (three years for PhD students).
Graduate visa information
Several departments within the University can help you find a job during and after your studies:
Cherry Tree Lodge University Park Campus Nottingham, NG7 2RD, UK
+44 (0)115 84 66125 immigration-support@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/spend-part-of-your-degree-here:
For students from our partner universities
For students studying outside the UK interested in studying part of their degree at Nottingham.
Study through existing an exchange agreement or an independent application
About the university
Life on campus
Module information for Visiting students
Student life
Living costs in Nottingham
If you have any questions about studying abroad at the University of Nottingham as part of your degree, please contact the Visiting students team .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/preparing-for-nottingham:
Here are some of the preparations you may need to make after receiving an offer to study with us at Nottingham as an international or EU student.
When you're getting ready to join us and making your final preparations for study, check our welcome webpages for checklists of things to do before and after you arrive, plus extra guidance for international and EU students on travel, money, health services, our International Welcome Programme, late arrival and more.
Start your journey

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/international-information-webinars-2025.aspx:
To book your place use the relevant booking link.
You will be sent a Microsoft Teams joining link which you can use on your web browser or desktop app.
All times given are UK time - please ensure that you convert the time correctly for your specific location.
The list below will be updated regularly.
We recommend bookmarking this page to stay informed with all of our latest webinars.
Applying for a student visa from overseas
Past event
Email international@nottingham.ac.uk for a copy of the presentation
Discover Sports and Fitness Opportunities at UoN
In this presentation you'll learn about the amazing sport and fitness opportunities that the University of Nottingham has to offer.
You’ll get a flavour of the wide range of activities available at our sport centres and how we cater for everyone.
From those who want to excel in their sport to those who just want to make friends, have a great time at university and try new things - sport at UoN brings everyone together.
Doing an MSc in Psychology at the University of Nottingham
Overview of our psychology master's courses.
The webinar will end with a short taster talk followed by a Q&A.
This session is for those holding an offer to study one of our School of Psychology MSc courses.
Doing an MSc in the School of Biosciences at the University of Nottingham
Overview of the School of Biosciences and Sutton Bonington Campus, followed by Q&A.
You will have the opportunity to meet your course directors and ask any questions you may have.
The webinar will end with a short taster lecture followed by a Q&A.
This session is for those holding an offer to study one of our School of Biosciences MSc courses.
Doing an MSc in Computer Science at the University of Nottingham
Overview of the School of Computer Sciences and the courses we offer.
This will be followed by a short Q&A.
This session is for those holding an offer to study one of our School of Computer Science MSc courses.
Maths MSc courses at Nottingham - from statistics to financial markets to gravity
Overview of the School of Mathematical Sciences, followed by individual course summaries.
The webinar will end with a Q&A session.
This session is for those holding an offer to study one of our School of Mathematical Sciences MSc courses.
Everything you need to know before arriving to the University of Nottingham
A session to help you prepare to come to Nottingham - filled with practical information and advice.
What's Notts to Like?
Q&A with our International Student Ambassadors
This is your chance to ask our current international students what life is like in Nottingham.
Centre for English Language Education (CELE)
Find out all about our pre-sessional English courses and the on-going free support CELE offers to students during their degree studies.
Thursday 17 July 12 to 1.30pm (BST)
Link to join meeting
Thursday 14 August 12 to 1.30pm (BST)
Centre for English Language Education (CELE )
Friday 17 October 9.30-11.00am (BST)
Wedensday 4 February 2026 9.30-11.00am (GMT)
Wednesday 18 March 2026 9.30-11.00am (GMT)
Find out all about our pre-sessional English courses and the on-going free support CELE offers to students during their degree studies
Wednesday 1 July 2026 9.30-11.00am (GMT)

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/contact-us:
Request online meeting
Book virtual open day
Contacts in your country
Events in your country
Our overseas agents
Book an on-campus Open Day
Book international student campus tour
Discover student life
Chat to our students on The Student Room

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/international-student-life/students-with-families.aspx:
If you plan to bring your husband, wife, partner or children to live with you while studying, there are some arrangements you will need to make for their life in the UK.
Some Student route visa holders are able to apply for Dependant visas for their spouse, partner, and children.
The criteria to be eligible to bring Dependants has recently changed, and we recommend that your view the Dependant criteria as explained by the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) , and also contact the Visa and Immigration team for confirmation of eligibility and the application requirements.
We know that finding somewhere suitable to live is a top priority for students coming to Nottingham with their families.
The University of Nottingham, like most universities, only has a limited number of accommodation places suitable for couples and families.
We recommend applying for accommodation as early as possible if you wish to stay in one of these.
Find out more about our university houses .
Many students with families choose to live in private housing.
We recommend that you prioritise Nottingham Standard properties where possible.
Please take care to prepare yourself for the 'right to rent' checks that landlords are required to carry out on the immigration status of you and your family members.
Find out more on the UKCISA website .
If you are not able to arrange accommodation for your family before you travel to the UK we would strongly advise you to come on your own to begin with.
You can then stay somewhere short term while you search for suitable accommodation.
The University does not have any temporary accommodation suitable for families and staying in hotels can prove very expensive.
Before signing a contract for private rented accommodation we strongly advise that you have the rental contract checked by Students' Union Advice , which is located in the Portland Building, as they will advise you about the terms and conditions of the contract and alert you to any potential difficulties.
They also produce booklets and information on house hunting in the private sector.
The university has a day nursery and play centre on University Park Campus, catering for children of univty students and staff aged four months to five years.
Find out more about our childcare services .
Busy Bees , a private company, also provides day care at the University of Nottingham close to the other university childcare provision.
The University has a small fund called the Childcare Support Scheme to offer eligible students some financial assistance towards meeting the costs of essential registered child care while they are studying.
Some Nottingham City primary schools have a nursery attached to them for children aged three to four and some nursery classes form their own nursery school.
The demand for these is very high but your child's name could be put on the waiting list if there is one near your home.
There are also many private nurseries, including those located in the City and Queens Medical Centre Hospitals.
You can search for nursery schools near you on the UK government website.
Children usually begin school in the September after their fourth birthday.
After they have turned five years old, schooling is compulsory.
Schooling in England is split into the following stages:
From age 16 to 18, various options are available: children can continue to study in a school sixth form or college (taking A levels, a foundation course or an equivalent qualification), or they can enter an apprecenticeship or traineeship for certain types of careers.
They may work part-time but must be in some form of education or training until they are 18 years old.
Find out more about thison the UK government website .
State education is free in the UK.
All materials, such as pencils, paper, textbooks and exercise books are provided by the school at no charge.
Most schools have a uniform and you will be expected to provide this, as well as suitable clothing for physical education (PE) lessons.
You will also need to pay for your children's lunches in most cases.
The school year runs from September to July, divided into three terms, usually with a two-week vacation period between them (ariound Christmas/New Year and Easter), one-week half-term holidays in the middle of each term, and a five or six-week vacation period in the summer.
The school day is typically between 9am and 3.30pm, Monday to Friday, with an hour break for lunch.
Class sizes in UK state schools vary but are typically around 30 students.
If your child needs help with English, or has any special education requirements, the school will arrange specialist support.
To apply for a school place for your child, you will need to know when you will be arriving in Nottingham and the address you will be living at.
You should not apply for a place more than six weeks before you and your child will arrive.
See the UK government website for general information on school admissions .
There are two local councils that handle state school admissions in the areas close to our campuses: Nottingham City Council covers areas such as Dunkirk, Lenton, Wollaton and the city centre.
Nottinghamshire County Council covers areas such as Beeston, Bramcote, Chilwell and Sutton Bonington.
In addition to the schools run by the councils there are some private schools which charge fees and there are 'voluntary aided' schools in Nottingham.
The Church of England or the Roman Catholic Church usually run the voluntary aided schools with only limited involvement by the council.
The schools manage their own place allocation so you can contact them directly to find out more.
Our Centre for English Language Education (CELE) offers a range of English language courses and support, and is accredited by the British Council for the teaching of English in the UK.
CELE offers presessional English courses for applicants who need to meet the required level of academic English to start their degree and continues to support students through their degree course with academic language and communication skills courses and consultations.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/visa-help/how-to-extend-your-student-visa.aspx:
These questions are asked to determine whether you will be able to verify your identity using the UK Immigration: ID check app, instead of attending an in-person biometrics appointment at a UKVCAS centre.
Are you intending to live in one of the Crown Dependencies of the United Kingdom?
Answer ‘No’ to this question.
Do you have a current EU, EEA or Swiss passport?
EU/EEA/Swiss nationals over 18 will be directed to verify their identity using their passport and the UK Immigration: ID check app.
Do you have a UK biometric residence permit (BRP)?
You will be asked this if you selected ‘No’ to the previous question.
Are you 17 years old or younger?
If you 17 years or younger, you will need to attend a biometrics appointment.
Do you have any children applying with you?
If you are applying with dependant children, you will need to attend a biometrics appointment.
Is your name on your biometric residence permit the same as on your current passport?
You will be asked this if you answered, ‘Yes’ to do the “Do you have a BRP?” question.
If the name on your BRP is different to the one in your passport, please contact us for further advice.
If you’re able to use the UK Immigration: ID check app, you will then be directed to complete the electronic application form and will need to complete each section before moving onto the next.
If you’re not able to use the app, don’t worry, the guidance below will still be useful to answer the questions which appear on the alternative version of the visa application form.
We advise that you have your CAS information, your current BRP and passport with you when you complete the form.
Section of application form
Guidance notes
Immigration Adviser details
You are asked if you have an immigration adviser based in the UK.
You would only select 'yes' if you are using an immigration solicitor / lawyer for your visa application.
This does not include the University Immigration Adviser role.
Contact preferences
Ensure you enter a current email, postal address and telephone number for yourself.
It is important to enter an email address which you can access as this will be the main official communication route which the Home Office uses to contact you regarding your application.
Other names and nationalities
If you have ever been known by any other names you should include these in this section.
You do not need to mention unofficial nicknames.
Your place of birth may not be stated with your passport, in which case; just give the information you know to be true.
If unknown, state 'unknown'.
People applying with you
You will be asked to provide details of any dependants that will be applying with you in your visa application form, but please note that your dependants will also each need to complete a separate form.
Your location
You must be physically present in the UK when you complete this visa application.
If you are overseas, please refer to our overseas visa application guidance .
Personal Details
Enter the details from your passport.
You are also asked to provide your UK address history for the past 2 years here.
Family and relationships
Even if you are not applying for this visa with a current partner, you will need to give your current relationship status.
Details of your father and mother must also be provided here.
If you only have partial details about a parent, it may be possible to enter 'Unknown' in any relevant fields and then explain more in the 'Additional Information' section later in the application form.
Travel history – time lived in UK
You are asked how long you have lived in the UK.
You should enter total period you have lived in the UK (including on previous visas you may have had before your current one).
You are then asked if you have left the UK for more than 2 weeks during this time and should include each instance of this.
Take care with this section to ensure accuracy.
Travel history – Travel to Australia, Canada, New Zealand, USA, Switzerland, EEA
Include details of any travel to these countries even if you have covered the same information in the previous question.
Medical Treatment in the UK
Complete this section as accurately as you can.
We expect most applicants will not have been asked to pay for medical treatment in the UK, but if this applies to you please contact the Visa and Immigration team for further advice.
UK National Insurance number
You will only have a National Insurance number if you have worked in the UK previously.
UK Driving License
If you have a UK driving license, you should enter the details here.
Receipt of public funds
Student visa holders should not be claiming public funds (welfare/benefits), so most students should tick 'No'.
Please speak to an Immigration Adviser if you think you have been claiming public funds.
Please note that Council Tax exemption which students are entitled to is not a public fund.
Immigration permission – current leave
You are asked about your current visa or leave to remain.
‘Leave to remain' simply refers to a visa granted in the UK.
We expect most people will have their most recent visa in the Student (formerly Tier 4) category.
A small number of applicants may be switching from a dependant visa or Skilled Worker (formerly Tier 2) for example.
You need to check if you can make the switch here in the UK by referring to the Student policy guidance.
You will need your current visa or BRP with you to complete this section.
Criminality and war crimes
Please make sure that you are honest in this section as it can harm your visa application if you are later found to have withheld information.
We expect the answer to be no to all of these questions in the vast majority of cases.
If you are unsure about any of the questions in this section, please do contact us.
Employment history
If you have previously worked in any of the areas listed in the form, you should include the details here.
Study details – CAS number
Enter the CAS number issued to you by the University of Nottingham here.
Study details – type of sponsor
The University of Nottingham is a Higher Education Provider with a track record of compliance.
Study details – postgraduate medical doctor or dentist
You must answer 'No' to the question 'Are you going to be a postgraduate medical doctor or dentist on a recognised Foundation Programme.' If you answer ‘Yes’ to this question, UKVI will not process your application as a standard Student application, which will lead to complications.
Study details – UCAS
Only answer 'Yes' if you applied for your course through UCAS.
If you applied to the University of Nottingham directly or through an agent, answer 'No'.
Study details – sponsor licence number and address
The sponsor license number is RFDX42DB2.
The address is ‘The University of Nottingham, University Park, Nottingham, NG7 2RD’.
Study details – main site of study
If your main site of study (as confirmed on your CAS) is a site other than University Park, you will need to provide the address here.
Study details – name of sponsor institution
The name of your Student Visa sponsor is The University of Nottingham.
Study details – course name and qualification
Please use your CAS to complete this section as the information should match.
For the qualification you will get, check your CAS and enter the Academic Level of study showing on your CAS.
UG = RQF 6,  Masters = RQF 7, PhD = RQF 8
Study details – course start and end dates
Enter the course dates exactly as shown on your CAS.
If you are a current student continuing your current studies, this might not be your actual true course start date, but the start date of your next visa period.
In this case we will add an additional note to your CAS to indicate the original course start date.
Financial sponsor
You are asked if you have a current or past (within the last 12 months) official financial sponsor.
This could be the government in your home country, the British Council, a University or an international organisation for example).
If you are currently in receipt of funds from the University of Nottingham this information should be confirmed on your CAS.
Please ensure this is the case.
If you are currently in receipt of any other official financial sponsorship, you should have an original letter confirming this arrangement to present with your visa application.
If you are receiving or have received sponsorship in the last 12 months from a government or an international scholarship agency for all of your tuition fees plus your living expenses, you must also provide a letter from your financial sponsor confirming that they give their consent for your immigration application.
This is sometimes called a ‘no objection letter’.
If you do not provide this letter, your application may be refused.
Student loan
If you have received any funds in the form of an official Student loan, you should include this here.
For example, if you are receiving funds from US Federal Aid.
Course fees
Your CAS should show the amount that your tuition fees are for the first year (or, for current students, this will be the current or next academic year as stated on the CAS).
The CAS should also show any money that you have paid or that has been allocated towards your fees from a University scholarship.
We do not advise that you present receipts as evidence of payment because this is not listed as an acceptable method of demonstrating fees paid in the student immigration rules.
Marshall, Chevening or Commonwealth scholarship
If you receive one of these specific named scholarships, answer ‘Yes’ to this question.
If you receive any other type of scholarship, or no scholarship, answer ‘No’ here.
English language ability
You are asked if you have provided previous evidence of English language.
By 'previous application', this means a previous visa application for a UK visa, which is likely to apply to you if you are extending your visa in the UK.
Select 'yes' if you are extending your current visa for your current programme.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/visa-help/standard-visitor-visa.aspx:
A Visitor visa can be used by students who need to enter the UK for a short study period of up to six months.
It can also be used by family or friends to visit you whilst you are here as a student or to attend your graduation.
UK travel requirements are changing, and non-visa nationals who intend to travel to the UK for the purpose of entering as a Visitor will be required to apply for Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA) permission in advance.
The requirement for ETA only applies to non-visa nationals who intend to obtain entry as a Visitor on arrival to the UK.
If your nationality is not on the list of Visa nationals , you will be classed as a 'non-visa national'.
Individuals who are Visa nationals are still required to obtain entry clearance in the relevant immigration category in advance of traveling to the UK, and do not need to apply for ETA.
ETA applies to non-visa nationals for:
An ETA costs £16 and permits multiple journeys to the UK of up to six months at a time over two years or until the holder’s passport expires, whichever is sooner.
Students intending to study for multiple six-month periods must seek advice from the Visa and Immigration team before committing to this pattern of study.
For further information visit GOV.UK ETA guidance and What is an ETA (2 minute video) .
Visitors can either apply for a Standard Visitor visa on arrival in the UK or they will have to apply for their visa before they travel to the UK, dependant on nationality.
You can check if a visitor needs to apply for a visitor visa before travelling to the UK on the GOV.UK website.
It is sometimes possible or necessary for students whose courses are longer than six months to apply for a six month visitor visa to come to the UK to complete a specific part of their course.
This could include:
students who need to be in the UK for resit examinations as an external candidate
PhD students who need to come to the UK only for their viva examination and corrections, if they intend to return to their home country and do not wish to switch to the Graduate visa or any other visa
students on distance learning courses who need to enter the UK for a short period of intensive in-person teaching
You must have a current passport or travel document that is valid for the whole of your stay in the UK.
You will need a letter from the University to support your application under this route.
Applicants will receive this from Admissions once they have been made an unconditional offer to study on a relevant course.
Current students should discuss their suitability for this route with the Visa and Immigration team , and they will issue the letter where appropriate.
You must have financial evidence such as bank statements showing that you have enough money to cover any course fees, living costs including accommodation and the cost of your return journey.
You can use someone else's money if you can demonstrate your personal or professional relationship with them.
You must have a valid Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) certificate, if applicable for your course and you are not exempt.
CELE students are normally advised to apply for a Student route visa instead of a Visitor or Short Term Study visa, as there may not be time between courses to return home to make a Student visa application.
See the specific visa advice for CELE applicants .
Depending on their nationality, some visitors can be issued with a Standard Visitor visa on arrival in the UK.
Please read the important ETA inormation at the top of this page.
A visitor visa upon arrival in the UK will be issued as either:
If the visitor has a complex immigration history or previous experience of being refused a visa, they should consider applying for and securing the visa before they travel.
Please contact the Visa and Immigration team if you have any questions about this.
In order to issue a visa for a maximum of six months, the immigration officer at the airport will ask to see documentation in order to determine that:
They may ask to see:
These documents must be in the hand luggage of the person seeking entry in order to show to immigration officers at the airport.
If the visitor does not speak English, you may wish to write a letter for them, to present on arrival which explains the purpose of their visit.
Check if you need a UK visa
The visa application centre will record their biometric information (photograph and fingerprints) and request their documents.
The documents, including their passport, may be retained while the application is being processed.
We strongly recommend reading the Gov.uk information on Standard Visitor visas , including how to apply and what documents and information to prepare.
It costs £127 to apply.
Once the person has applied online, provided their documents and attended a biometric enrolment appointment, they will usually get a decision within three weeks.
Visitors can apply up to three months before they travel to the UK and we recommend allowing as much time as possible.
There can be processing delays at peak times.
This list is not exhaustive and depending on an individual’s circumstances additional documents may be required.
All documents can be originals, scans or photocopies, with the exception of passports which should be original.
Apply online for a Standard Visitor visa
Nationals of any EU country, Australia, Canada, Iceland, Japan, Liechtenstein, New Zealand, Norway, Singapore, South Korea, Switzerland and the USA are non-visa nationals who are also permitted to use ePassort gates on entry to the UK, if they have a biometric passport.
If you enter the UK this way, you will not receive a stamp endorsement in your passport as you will not see a Border Force Officer.
You will be permitted to enter the UK as a visitor for a period of six months.
You need to retain evidence of your date of arrival in the UK such as an e-ticket or boarding pass.
This will help you to remember the exact duration of your six month stay, and also you will need to show this evidence when you arrive at the University and register on your course.
Visit the GOV.UK website for more information on how to apply, visa fees, and supporting documents and information you’ll need.
All visitors should carry relevant documents in their hand luggage to explain the purpose of their visit and their finances in case the immigration officer at the airport asks for more information before allowing the visitor to enter the UK.
If you need to arrange accommodation for your visitors, in Nottingham or elsewhere in the UK, the choice is wide and varied.
There are many websites which you can use to plan holiday accommodation in the UK.
We recommend all visitors to the UK take a look at www.visitbritain.com .
Here you will find a wealth of information on things to do, places to visit, and travelling around the UK.
If the visitor plans to go to any other European countries in the course of their visit to the UK and requires a Schengen visa, they should apply for this from the appropriate Embassy in their home country before travelling to the UK as it will not be possible for a visitor to secure that visa in the UK.
The Hong Kong BN(O) visa provides a route to settlement in the UK for eligible British Nationals Overseas and their family members.
See the UK Government guidance on eligibility and how to apply.
If you hold permission in this category you will be able to study and will not need a Student visa, subject to having a valid a valid Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) certificate, if applicable for your course and you are not exempt.
If you hold immigration permission in another category not mentioned on this page, your visa conditions may permit study.
If you are an applicant or offer-holder and you are not sure whether the conditions of your visa permit study, please email the Visa and Immigration team for advice, including your Nottingham ID number and a copy of your immigration status document or eVisa sharecode and visa decision letter.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/visa-help/atas.aspx:
The Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) is the UK's immigration approval system for international students and researchers in selected science areas.
The requirement to have ATAS clearance applies to all international students and researchers (apart from exempt nationalities) who are subject to UK immigration control who are conducting research or studying courses leading to a qualification at masters or doctorate level (PhD) in certain science and technology subjects.
If the ATAS requirement applies to you, you will need to make an application for ATAS clearance.
ATAS applications are processed by the UK government department, the Foreign and Commonwealth Development Office (FCDO).
Applications are made online, and once your clearance is granted, you will receive an ATAS certificate as confirmation.
Please take care to ensure the details you submit in your ATAS application are correct and match those held by the University.
If your course requires ATAS clearance you will need to obtain an ATAS certificate before you can apply for your visa.
The ATAS certificate is also required before you can register at the University.
Students applying under the Student visa route will have the ATAS requirement stated in their CAS document .
Students coming for less than six months on a Standard Visit visa will have the ATAS requirement stated in their offer letter.
If you have a different kind of visa which permits study in the UK, such as Dependant or BNO, the ATAS requirement will be stated in your offer letter.
You will not be asked for the ATAS certificate as part of your visa application, but you will need it to register on your course.
We recommend reading the below frequently asked questions and answers on the ATAS application process.
If your question has not been answered, please contact the Visa and Immigration Team .
You need to apply online for an ATAS certificate .
You are strongly encouraged to firstly read the government guidance .
All applicants (students and staff) will be asked for:
Students will also be asked for:
Staff researchers will also be asked for:
More guidance on some of these requirements, such as referees and financial sponsorship , can be found on the ATAS website.
An ATAS certificate is valid for six months only and if it is not used in a visa application within this time, new clearance must be obtained before you make your visa application.
You should take care not to apply too early.
You should also be mindful to allow plenty of time for the ATAS application to be processed, see below for guidance.
It will take at least 20 working days (4 weeks) to process a student ATAS application, however this can increase to 30 working days (6 weeks) or more during the peak time between April and September.
It will take at least 10 working days (2 weeks) to process a researcher ATAS application, however this can increase to 15 working days (3 weeks) or more during the peak time between April and September.
Applications are processed in order of receipt and the FCDO does not offer any fast track service.
An ATAS certificate is valid for six months only for visa application purposes.
You will need to apply for a fresh ATAS certificate in the future in certain circumstances:
Postgraduate Research students will need to provide their supervisor name.
You should provide your main/lead supervisor name, if you know it.
If you don’t, you can put your Head of Department name (see below).
Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught students will need to provide their Head of Department name (see below).

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/visa-help/adviser.aspx:
Our Visa and Immigration team has dedicated immigration advisers with a wealth of knowledge and experience.
The team provides free, professional support relating to student visa applications as well as advice on other visa and immigration issues.
Immigration advice is regulated by the Immigration Advice Authority (IAA), and the Visa and Immigration team are the only team at the University permitted to provide specialist immigration advice to applicants and students.
You can connect with our team in different ways:
The UK is transitioning to a fully digital visa system.
Visas longer than six months' duration are now issued as a digital status (eVisa).
Read more about how your visa will be issued and how to access your visa in order to view and prove your immigration status.
Your visa documents
As a student visa holder, you have certain visa conditions and responsibilities while you are in the UK, under the UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) regulations.
The University also has certain responsibilities as your immigration sponsor.
Visa responsibilities
We offer a free, professional checking service for student visa applications for current students applying in the UK as well as their dependants.
We strongly recommend that students extending their visa in the UK seek guidance from an adviser to check your application before submitting it online, so that it has the best possible chance of succeeding.
Please follow the instructions on the checking service page prior to booking an appointment.
We endeavour to answer specific questions you may have about other categories of visa (such as Skilled Worker), but we can only offer a full checking service for applications falling within our Student visa area of expertise.
If you book an appointment to discuss working after studies, please be advised that while we can answer your questions on routes such as Graduate and Skilled Worker, we will be unable to give careers advice and will refer you to the specialist Careers and Employability Service for this.
Offer holders should refer to our 10 steps guidance and visa application form guidance .
Visa application checking service

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/eu/future-students.aspx:
We are committed to welcoming students from across Europe and beyond and providing a truly global experience for all of our students.
This information is provided for students who will commence their studies at the University of Nottingham in the 2021 academic year or later.
If you are already studying at Nottingham, please refer to our information for current EU students .
This webpage was most recently updated on 14 July 2021.
The information below was correct to the best of our knowledge at this time, but may be subject to change.
The UK government has confirmed that EU, EEA and Swiss nationals starting courses in the 2021/22 academic year who are not registered as 'settled or 'pre-settled' in the UK will no longer be eligible for 'home' (UK) fee status or financial support from Student Finance England.
In most cases you will be classed as an 'overseas' (international) student for fees purposes.
Find out more about our fee status assessment process.
The University of Nottingham offers undergraduate and postgraduate scholarships for outstanding EU students with overseas fees status as part of our range of international scholarships .
This includes:
UK Research and Innovation has announced that its PhD studentships will be available for international students from the 2021-22 academic year onwards.
This will include EU, EEA and Swiss students as well as students from other countries.
Some students from the EU, EEA or Switzerland meeting certain criteria may be eligible for 'home' fee status instead of overseas.
You may be asked to complete a fee status questionnaire and your answers will be assessed using guidance issued by the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) .
For more information, see our fee status assessment policy, UKCISA's fee status guidance , and the Department for Education's policy paper on new fee status rules .
The UK government's new points-based immigration system is in effect from 1 January 2021 , when freedom of movement between the UK and EU ended.
Citizens of the EU, EEA and Switzerland are included in the new points-based system, and will require a visa to enter, work, live and study in the UK.
For most students, this will mean applying for a student visa .
After completing a degree course on a student visa, you will then be eligible for the new graduate immigration route (post-study work visa) to stay and work in the UK for a further two years – or up to three years after a PhD course.
Use our welcome webpages to plan your travel arrangements.
Students travelling from certain countries may need to self-isolate (quarantine) after entering the UK.
If you have obtained 'settled' or 'pre-settled' status under the UK's EU Settlement Scheme, then you can enter, live, study and work in the UK freely with this immigration status and will not require a UK visa.
The EU Settlement Scheme was available to EU, EEA and Swiss citizens who were living in the UK by the end of 2020.
Applications for the scheme closed on 30 June 2021.
Under the Common Travel Area arrangements between Ireland and the UK, Irish nationals can enter, live, work and study in the UK without a visa.
These rights are unaffected by Brexit, so Irish students do not need to apply for a student visa or for the EU Settlement Scheme.
British universities are widely recognised around the world and there are various recognition agreements between countries.
Many of these agreements are not related to the EU, so most academic qualifications will still be recognised.
Where degrees are accredited by professional bodies in the UK, such as degrees in architecture, engineering, law, medicine, nursing, pharmacy and veterinary science, these degrees may no longer qualify graduates to work in these fields within the EU and EEA, since the Mutual Recognition of Professional Qualifications (MRPQ) agreements ceased in 2020.
Students studying professional qualifications in the UK should check with the relevant overseas professional body that their UK degree will qualify them to work in their profession in their chosen country.
The University of Nottingham believes that student mobility is essential to the global experience we offer our students, and we will continue to provide opportunities to study and work abroad during our courses, at partner universities across Europe and the globe.
The University has made a commitment to continue providing outgoing student mobility and exchange programmes through the Erasmus+ scheme (or an alternative to the Erasmus+ scheme) until the 2022/23 academic year, regardless of whether Erasmus+ funding from the UK government continues beyond Brexit.
Brexit's impact on study abroad opportunities
Please be aware that study abroad, compulsory Year Abroad, optional placements/internships and integrated year in industry opportunities may change at any time for a number of reasons, including curriculum developments, changes to arrangements with partner universities or placement/industry hosts, travel restrictions or other circumstances outside of the university's control.
Every effort will be made to update this information as quickly as possible should a change occur.
European exchange students interested in studying at the University of Nottingham for a semester or year as part of their degree can find details of how to apply on our Erasmus+ page for visiting students.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/eu/current-students.aspx:
We are committed to supporting our European students at Nottingham and will continue to provide a truly global experience for all of our students after Brexit.
This information is provided for students who are already studying at the University of Nottingham's UK campuses.
If you have applied or are considering applying to study at Nottingham in 2021 or later, please refer to our Brexit information for EU applicants .
Students from the European Union (classed as EU for fee purposes) who have commenced their studies in the UK in the 2020-21 academic year or earlier will continue to have access to the existing fees and funding opportunities for the full duration of their course.
If you have obtained 'settled' or 'pre-settled' status under the UK's EU Settlement Scheme, then you can live, study and work in the UK freely with this immigration status.
You can also exit and re-enter the UK and will not require a UK visa.
If you did not register for the EU Settlement Scheme, you will need another valid immigration status to remain in the UK, such as a student visa.
Please contact the Visa and Immigration team for advice if you are a current student in this situation.
The rights of Irish citizens residing in the UK are protected after the UK leaves the EU under the UK-Ireland Common Travel Area arrangements.
This means that Irish citizens do not need to apply for the EU Settlement Scheme.
Many of these agreements are not related to the European Union, so most academic qualifications will still be recognised.
The University has made a commitment to continue providing outgoing student mobility and exchange programmes through the Erasmus+ scheme until the 2022-23 academic year, regardless of whether Erasmus+ funding from the UK government continues beyond Brexit.
Find out more about Brexit's impact on study abroad opportunities
Contact the Visa and Immigration team

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/eu/studying-abroad.aspx:
We are committed to providing a global experience for all Nottingham students, including life-changing opportunities to study or work abroad during our degree courses – at partner universities in Europe and around the world.
Disclaimer: This webpage was most recently updated on 19 July 2021.
The University has made a commitment to continue providing outgoing student mobility and exchange programmes through the Erasmus+ scheme (or an alternative to the Erasmus+ scheme) until the 2022-23 academic year.
University of Nottingham students studying or working abroad as part of the Erasmus+ programme in the 2020-21 academic year will continue to be funded for their mobility period in Europe and can find more information on Erasmus+ grants and residing in a European country on Moodle .
Find out more about our Erasmus+ programme
We offer a range of student exchanges and study abroad opportunities at our international campuses in China and Malaysia and our partner universities around the world.
Find out more about our study abroad opportunities

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/working-in-the-uk/after-graduation.aspx:
Boost your professional skills and career options with the UK's Graduate visa route.
Staying in the UK to work after your degree course allows you to apply the knowledge and skills you've learned in your course.
You will also gain the experience future employers are looking for and make connections to advance your career.
Under the UK's Graduate visa route, you'll be able to stay in the UK to work – or look for work – for up to two years after completing your studies, or up to three years after a PhD course.
The Graduate visa is a way for international students, after they have been awarded their degree, to stay in the UK to work or look for work, at any skill level for two years, or three years for doctoral students.
It is sometimes referred to as the 'post-study work visa'.
The Graduate visa is an unsponsored route, meaning you do not need a job offer to apply for the route.
You will be able to work flexibly, switch jobs and develop your career in the UK as required.
The Graduate visa will be available for students who:
If you intend to apply for the Graduate visa and believe you are eligible, but have not received the confirmation from the Visa and Immigration team within one month after receiving the confirmation of your degree, or if you have less than one month left on your student visa, contact the Visa and Immigration team as soon as possible.
Government's guide to the Graduate visa
You won't need to find a job before applying for this visa, and there are no restrictions on the employer, salary level or position you take.
We encourage you to seek graduate-level jobs to make the best use of this opportunity.
You can also change jobs and employers during your visa period without restrictions.
You could even launch your own business with support from our Ingenuity Lab .
At the end of the two- or three-year visa period, you can apply for another UK visa route if you meet its requirements.
Alternatively, you can return to pursue your career in your home country, building on the skills and experience you've gained while working as a graduate in the UK.
The Careers and Employability Service are also here to support you in finding a graduate-level job.
Careers and employability service
The pages below have been created to support you with questions you may have at any stage of the process.
Before applying for the graduate visa
Eligibility for the graduate visa
Applying for the graduate visa
After applying for the graduate visa
If you have obtained 'settled' or 'pre-settled' status under the UK's EU Settlement Scheme, then you can live, study and work in the UK freely with this immigration status, and you will not require a Student visa or Graduate visa.
Irish students will not need to apply for the EU Settlement Scheme, a Student visa or the Graduate immigration route.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/spend-part-of-your-degree-here/international-and-european-exchange.aspx:
Students from outside the UK who would like to spend part of their degree at Nottingham may be able to do so through the international exchange programme.
International exchange is designed for undergraduates from our partner universities (including members of the Universitas 21 network) who wish to spend a period of time studying in the UK, earning credits to transfer back to their home university.
Modules are available across most disciplines and are part of the regular undergraduate curriculum, enabling international exchange students to study alongside UK-based home students.
International exchange students are exempt from paying any tuition fees to the University of Nottingham provided there is a current exchange agreement in place between Nottingham and the home university.
Students must be formally nominated to study at Nottingham by their home university.
Applications for the 2025/2026 academic year remain open until the dates below.
See the 'How to apply' below for further guidance.
The following school has one application deadline in May for either autumn or spring semester:
If you are applying from a country where English is not the official/majority language, you must submit evidence of English language proficiency.
We accept IELTS (academic), Pearson PTE Academic and TOEFL (iBT) tests of English language proficiency.
The level of English at the time of application must be:
See our English language proficiency webpage for more information.
A number of alternative language qualifications can also be accepted as B2 equivalent alternatives for NQF Level 6 (undergraduate degree level) study and above.
For more information, please consult the English language equivalencies webpage.
English language equivalencies
The Centre for English Language Education (CELE) at the University of Nottingham offers a variety of English language courses and support for international students while you study here:
For further information about English language courses, please visit the CELE website.
Students who have completed their entire secondary education, up to year 12 or equivalent and including an English language qualification equivalent to GCSE, in one of the approved countries listed by the UK's Home Office, are exempt from providing proof of English language.
This list includes major English-speaking countries such as Australia, Republic of Ireland, New Zealand and the USA.
For the full list of exempt countries and territories, please visit the UK government, student visa webpage:
UK government: countries exempt from providing proof of English language
All applicants must be current students at a university or college of higher education and must have completed at least one year of study at their home university at point of entry.
The minimum academic requirement is a current overall average equivalent to a 2:2 in the UK.
Please follow the link below for country-specific guidance, grade equivalencies are under the Masters entry requirements drop-down.
Country-specific information
Check with your home university to confirm whether a current international exchange agreement is in place between your home university and the University of Nottingham.
Once you have been nominated by your home university, they will send you guidance on how to complete the online application form.
Before applying, make sure you have the following ready:
You must upload all documents to your application form online.
Only complete applications will be considered and applications are processed on a rolling basis.
Once your application has been submitted, please allow up to six weeks for your application to be processed.
It is your responsibility to ensure your application is complete.
Any delays due to missing/incorrect supporting documents may result in us being unable to process your application and provide an offer.
Subject-specific exchange agreements between the University of Nottingham (UKNOTTING01) and your home university are linked to specific subject areas and host schools/departments within the University of Nottingham and level of study (example: Economics only; undergraduate, postgraduate taught or postgraduate research).
Your host school at Nottingham cannot be changed to other schools outside of the agreement.
Architecture and Built Envionment require a portfolio to be submitted in addition to the application.
The course location for Environmental Science and Plant Science modules is on the University Park Campus.
Chemical and Environmental Engineering modules are only open to students whose home university has a subject-specific existing exchange agreement with this department, as capacity is limited.
Chemistry are happy to consider students into Level 1 or Level 2 for the full year, or for one semester, or the whole year in Level 3 or Level 4.
In all cases, please contact the Visiting students team for further guidance.
Economics only offer a very limited number of modules to students who are not hosted by the School of Economics.
Please check the Approved modules page carefully for availability.
English welcomes Visiting students from both undergraduate and postgraduate study, for one semester or a full year.
Undergraduate students with an English major or minor can choose modules from any undergraduate level, subject to availability.
Visiting students without a background in English Studies should consult the Exchange coordinator , if they would like to study modules in the School of English at levels 2 or 3.
All Visiting students are welcome to choose available Level 1 modules; 10-credit modules are recommended.
Electrical and Electronic Engineering are happy to consider students for Level 1 and 2 modules for the full year exchange only, single semester exchange students will only be able to enrol on the more advanced Level 3 or 4 modules.
In all cases, please contact the Visiting students team, to check that your module choices can be accommodated.
Medicine and Health Sciences do not accept visiting students except for the School of Life Sciences, but certain criteria may need to be met.
Politics and International Relations modules are only available to students hosted by this school.
If you are an Erasmus+ or European exchange student, you will be provided with a learning agreement by your home university for your exchange.
These can be signed on arrival by our staff in the Student Service Centres.
The impact of Brexit means that there is no longer a visa route for Erasmus+ traineeships and visa support has ended.
The British Council is continuing to act as immigration sponsor for Temporary Work - Government Authorised Exchange visas, but only in respect of Erasmus+ funding secured up to 2020.
The applicant would need a 2014-2020 reference number.
Students must approach the British Council directly to access this visa route.
The British Council cannot sponsor participants funded under reference numbers starting 2021 or later, therefore applicants with a reference number from 2021 onwards are unable participate in an Erasmus+ internship within the UK.
Visas and immigration
Services for students
Term dates and exams

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/spend-part-of-your-degree-here/fee-paying-study-abroad.aspx:
Study abroad is ideal for undergraduate students from outside the UK who want to spend a period of time studying in the UK, earning credits to transfer back to their home institution.
Fee-paying students are able to apply from any university.
An agreement between the University of Nottingham and your home university is not necessary.
Modules are available across most disciplines and are part of the regular undergraduate curriculum enabling study abroad students to study alongside UK-based home students.
Study abroad tuition fees 2025/2026:
For further information about tuition fees, please visit the Exceptional fees pages:
Exceptional tuition fees 2025/2026
See 'How to apply' below for further guidance.
For further information about English language courses, please visit the CELE website.
All applicants must be a current student at a university or college of higher education and must have completed at least one year of study at their home university.
Students who are applying to study abroad at Nottingham through an existing study abroad agreement must be nominated by their home university or study abroad provider in order to take part in the programme; the home university must email the nomination to the Visiting students team .
Students who are applying independently should email the Visiting students team directly and will be sent guidance on the application process by email.
Any delays due to missing/incorrect supporting documents may result in us being unable to process your application and provide an offer.
If you are a European student, you will be provided with a learning agreement by your home university for your exchange.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/spend-part-of-your-degree-here/postgraduate-visiting-students.aspx:
We welcome applications from postgraduates who are considering spending part of their degree here.
Postgraduate students can arrange a visit through:
Where an international or Erasmus+ exchange agreement is already in place, visiting postgraduates can attend the University of Nottingham without paying tuition fees to the university if officially nominated by your home university.
You should check with your home university regarding any internal application procedures.
Where there is no international or Erasmus+ exchange agreement in place, or students wish to apply independently, Masters and PhD students from overseas academic institutions can study at the University of Nottingham for a period of up to one year as a postgraduate visiting student.
Postgraduate exchange and visiting students can take taught modules or undertake research while at Nottingham towards the Masters or PhD they are studying for at their home university.
However, any credits gained cannot count towards a degree at the University of Nottingham.
You must have a University of Nottingham academic to act as your supervisor and it is expected that you will already have a suitable contact.
Please gain their agreement on your start date and the duration of your visit before you apply.
Postgraduate exchange and visiting students can also take part in the regular research training programme of the department, including seminars, workshops and conferences, as well as access seminars and research training offered by the Graduate School.
Postgraduate exchange and visiting students are able to register with the university as full-time students and have access to all of the university's IT and library facilities as well as a workspace assigned to them within the school/department.
Postgraduate exchange and visiting students can also apply for university housing and are able to access the complete range of the university's support services, sports facilities and are members of the university's Students' Union while registered at Nottingham.
Applicants may apply for up to 12 months (3, 6, 9 or 12 months) and will be informed of the pro rata fee on application.
As well as the session start date in September, there are standard start dates during an academic year on 1 February, 1 April, 1 July, 1 October and 1 December.
Postgraduate visiting students (classed as international for fees purposes) undertaking a 12-month period of research will be charged the international postgraduate research student fee at a reduced rate.
Details of the fees are listed on the student fees website .
All applicants must be a current student at an overseas university or college of higher education and must have completed at least one year of study at their home university.
Please follow the link below for country-specific guidance, grade equivalencies will be found under Masters entry requirements.
All students are required to meet the University's minimum English language requirements by taking either an IELTS or Pearson Academic PTE test or another recognised English language qualification .
Some universities in non-English-speaking countries teach and examine in the medium of English language, and in certain cases there may be a possibility to provide evidence of an alternative English language test.
For more information please see alternative English language qualifications .
For more information, please consult the following webpage:
Email the Visiting students team , copying in your University of Nottingham supervisor and the Visiting students team will provide further details about what you need to do.
Applications must be made at least 3-months in advance of the start date.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/spend-part-of-your-degree-here/visiting-students-modules.aspx:
Most visiting and exchange students at the University of Nottingham select a range of modules or classes to study when they are in the UK.
Visiting and exchange students will be designated a home academic school/department at Nottingham on nomination, based on the exchange agreement with their home university.
The majority of credits should be taken in the home academic school/department but students can often choose modules from other schools/departments.
Approved modules for visiting and incoming exchange students
Click on the individual drop-down sections below to find out further information about selecting your modules at the University of Nottingham and how to submit your module preferences.
All visiting and exchange students on undergraduate or postgraduate taught programmes are required to adhere to the following credit loads:
Please visit Approved modules for visiting and incoming exchange students to view approved modules for visiting and incoming exchange students in each school/department.
Modules are taught in either in either the autumn semester, spring semester or for the full academic year.
It is not possible for students studying for one semester only to enrol onto full year modules.
The university publishes its module catalogue every April.
To search for a module on the module catalogue:
The module catalogue does not confirm if modules are available, it should only be referred to for information about specific modules.
Students can access the module catalogue through the Approved modules for visiting and incoming exchange students webpage.
Students should check how modules are assessed and think about assessment preferences, those accustomed to continuous assessment may consider choosing a module with coursework assessments such as essays/presentations, rather than 100% exam.
Credits are only awarded for completed modules where all assessments have been taken.
If the January to June semester at your home university starts before the end of the autumn semester at the University of Nottingham, you may need to check before you arrive at the University of Nottingham, if you can submit an alternative assessment or overseas exam in place of your January exams at Nottingham.
Further information can be found on the Overseas examinations webpage .
Visiting and incoming exchange students are required to submit their module choices through an online form prior to their arrival in the UK.
Please ensure you have agreed a list of back-up modules with your home university, in case any of your first choice modules are not available.
Please note that you can only submit this form once and any requests for changes will need to be submitted during the Change of Mind period once you are registered as a University of Nottingham student.
Your individual timetable will be published once your requested modules have been confirmed.
You can find out further information about the teaching timetable and the link to the login page to access the teaching timetable on the Timetabling webpage.
Individual student timetables for the 2025/2026 academic year will be released to visiting students, who have completed online registration and registered for modules, from Friday 26 September 2025.
Where you need to make a change to your modules, you should follow the general procedure for the Change of Mind period, which is released at the start of the academic year and is for a limited period.
This may delay the publishing or your individual timetable, as this requires all modules to be confirmed.
The Change of Mind period for autumn semester 2025 is from 12pm, Monday 29 September to 5pm, Wednesday 8 October 2025.
Please refer to the Module Enrolment webpage for further information.
Module enrolment
Chemical and Environmental Engineering modules are only open to students who are nominated to study in Chemical and Environmental Engineering for the full year.
Modules are subject to approval from the department before students can be enrolled onto modules.
Economics modules are only available to exchange students whose home school is Economics.
The majority of English modules are only available to exchange students who have been nominated for the School of English, please refer to the Approved modules page webpage for modules which are available to students who aren't hosted by the School of English
School of Medicine modules listed on the Approved modules for Visiting students webpage are only available to postgraduate exchange students from The University of Melbourne, who are nominated for the School of Medicine.
Students from a university whose exchange agreement is with the Department of Modern Languages and Cultures will be nominated and hosted by the unit, which the exchange agreement is with: French and Francophone Studies, German Studies or Spanish, Portuguese and Latin American Studies.
However, your minimum 30 credits, which must be taken in your host language department, can be taken in the wider School of Cultures, Languages and Area Studies.
They will not be restricted to the modules offered by the specific language unit.
Schools of Cultures, Languages and Area Studies; English; and Humanities
Departments of Architecture and Built Environment; Chemical and Environmental Engineering; Civil Engineering; Electrical and Electronic Engineering; and Mechanical, Materials and Manufacturing Engineering
Schools of Health Sciences, Life Sciences, Medicine and Veterinary Medicine and Science
Schools of Biosciences; Chemistry; Computer Science; Mathematical Sciences; Pharmacy; Physics and Astronomy; and Psychology
Schools of Business; Economics; Education; Geography; Law; Politics and International Relations; and Sociology and Social Policy
Optional language modules

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/spend-part-of-your-degree-here/english-language-proficiency.aspx:
80 (with a minimum of 17 in writing and listening, 18 in reading and 20 in speaking)
As well as IELTS, PTE and TOEFL, we accept alternative language qualifications.
For details, refer to our table of English language equivalencies and check for the qualifications equivalent to the scores listed above.
If you need to improve your English language score prior to your study period at Nottingham, you can consider taking a presessional English course at our Centre for English Language Education.
Please be aware that schools may have higher requirements for postgraduate research projects.
Presessional English language courses

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/international-applicants/contact-us/events-in-your-country.aspx:
Our team travel to events around the world.
Take a look at the table below for a list of upcoming events.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studentservices/welcome/international-students/international-students-home.aspx:
As an international student, we understand you have even more to think about as you prepare to join us at Nottingham.
This section is designed specifically for you, providing all the information you need as a student joining us from overseas.
From completing essential tasks and preparing to travel, to managing your health and finances, this section ensures you are well-prepared for life in the UK.
Your school or department will provide all the information you will need to prepare for your course, including: what you need to do before you start, links to your community hub pages, and essential course activities.
These pages will be published on our website at the end of July.
You can also use our Welcome toolkit for international students to find out more about the support services available, as well as practical information to help you settle into living and studying in the UK.
Prepare to travel | Get ready for life in the UK
Plan your travel arrangements carefully for a smooth journey, including your visa, packing and transport connections.
Pay attention to any pre-arrival instructions from your accommodation provider and explore our helpful guides for living in halls.
Your visa application
Follow our 10-step guide to prepare and submit your student visa application.
Packing for your flight
Discover essential tips for effectively packing your suitcase and hand luggage.
Entering the UK
Understand the entry procedures, required documentation and import restrictions for a stress-free arrival experience.
Travelling to Nottingham
Wherever you’re coming from, there are plenty of ways to reach Nottingham.
Visit our guide for making your way to campus.
Late arrival
Review important arrival and registration deadlines to ensure you can start your studies on time.
There are some important things to complete when you arrive, such as opening a bank account and registering with a doctor’s surgery.
Follow our guides below to prepare yourself for living and studying in the UK.
Guidance on opening a UK bank account, choosing the best one for you and how to keep your money safe and secure.
Your visa documentation
Check on what visa documentation you may need and how to provide the university with your immigration details.
Settling into UK life
We understand there may be differences like the food and the weather, but we are here to guide you through life as a new student in Nottingham.
Health services
It is important to register with a UK health service when you arrive here.
Find out your entitlements and what you will need to pay based on the length of your study.
Library services and support
Browse our library resources, from study spaces and resources to webinars and one to one support with study skills.
Review your student visa responsibilities while you are in the UK and ensure you comply with them.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/utilities/a-z/a-z.aspx:
Academic departments A-Z
Academic departments by faculty
Research centres and institutes
Professional services

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/degree-apprenticeships/news/insights-from-a-data-scientist-degree-apprentice-alumni:
Hassan Mujtaba, Specialist Data Scientist at Toyota.
I’ve had the incredible opportunity to journey from a Data Scientist Degree Apprentice to a Specialist Data Scientist at Toyota.
It all started with my interest in computing and technology.
I explored various fields—software development, cyber security—but data science really captured my interest.
I was drawn to how it bridges the gap between technology and business, allowing me to generate actionable insights that can truly impact an organisation.
Through the collaborative Data Scientist Degree Apprenticeship between the University of Nottingham and Toyota, my career took off, balancing my time on academic studies and immersed in practical business applications.
This hands-on and commercial experience was invaluable.
I dove into projects like predicting customer car repurchase behaviours and segmenting customers for new car models, developing proof of concepts and testing plenty of hypotheses.
Throughout my Data Scientist Degree Apprenticeship , I developed a diverse skill set.
I became proficient in tools like Python, PySpark, Azure; concepts like Machine Learning, Deep Learning, and even got into generative AI technologies.
While technical skills were important, growing my soft skills—like communication and presentation—was equally transformative.
They helped build my confidence in sharing complex insights effectively.
Of course, no journey is without its challenges.
Early on, as one of the apprentices when the program began, I encountered some organisational issues with the course structure, but I took the initiative to provide constructive feedback, leading to positive changes.
Managing a demanding workload also tested my limits, but I found it extremely fruitful to build crucial time management and prioritisation skills.
I was lucky to have another apprentice working alongside me; we shared ideas and supported each other through our challenges, which made the experience all the more enriching.
Currently, I focus on operationalising and maintaining predictive models within Toyota’s dealership-facing app, the Customer Lifetime Value (CLV) portal.
The customer repurchase models we've integrated are making a real impact by generating additional revenue for the business.
I’ve recently collaborated with our Supply Chain department to optimise sales plans and enhance demand forecasting.
I’m also leading initiatives in the generative AI space for Toyota in the UK, developing internal applications aimed at driving operational efficiency.
To anyone considering a degree apprenticeship in data science or a career in automotive, my advice is simple: be ready to commit fully.
The apprenticeship is filled with opportunities; it’s up to you to seize them and pave your path to success.
The standout for me about a degree apprenticeship vs a traditional degree was the opportunities I had to develop my business/commercial knowledge, alongside my academic skills.
This helped boost my confidence and ensured I transitioned seamlessly into my first job after graduation.
Find out more about our Data Scientist Degree Apprenticeship programme today.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/degree-apprenticeships/news/degree-apprenticeship-employer-engagement-day-2025:
Sharing experiences and networking across industries was high on the agenda for our annual Degree Apprenticeship Employer Engagement Day!
We invited partner employers and those considering accessing our Degree Apprenticeships to join us at our University Park Campus to take part in our day, designed to foster a strong apprenticeship community across our provision.
From our Annual Employer Forums to our engaging workshops to our useful information sessions – it was a jam-packed day full of Degree Apprenticeship discussions!
If you couldn’t make it on the day, here’s what you missed.
Partner employers met over our networking breakfast, offering them a chance to make new connections and share their experiences on programme before a morning welcome from the university’s Chief Commercial Officer, Jo Simpson.
She spoke about the importance of creating strong connections with our partner employers and how collaborations can bring benefit to business, students and our wider communities.
"Our Degree Apprenticeship offer continues to go from strength to strength and our employer partners are critical to this success.
The energy and insight they bring has helped us to create a programme portfolio that drives innovation, thought leadership and long-term workforce development.
As a university, we have so many opportunities to support the growth of our partners through new and innovative ways of working.
I am excited to create a future where all our employer partners have the opportunity to optimise and grow their organisations through new and strategic partnerships with the University”.
Jo Simpson, Chief Commercial Officer at the University of Nottingham.
The programme sessions kicked off with our Annual Employer Forums designed to enable employers accessing our apprenticeships to meet with our academic teams and apprenticeship support staff to feed into the future development of our programmes, share experience and advice across cohorts and take part in discussions to support them in drawing the most from their apprenticeship experience at Nottingham.
It was then time to break for lunch which was a chance to have some time to network and explore the university’s wider business offering at our exhibition.
Designed to support our partner and prospective employers with accessing all the available business support at the university, there were a range of exhibitors showcasing the pathways towards partnering with us.
"We appreciate the time and effort employers take out of their busy schedules to be a part of our community and engage in meaningful conversations around apprenticeships.
True investment in talent development is more than enrolling learners on-programme, it’s an active partnership that flourishes through continued engagement.
As their chosen training provider, we’re committed to supporting employers and apprentices throughout their Degree Apprenticeship and we value time spent in person - thank you to all the employers who attended!”
Lizzy Martin, Employer Engagement Manager at the University of Nottingham.
The afternoon offered attendees the opportunity to take part in a selection of engaging workshops and information sessions designed to support them in building a talent pipeline for the future.
The workshops covered a range of topics including Inclusive Hiring and Recruiting Apprentices whilst also offering an Inclusive Leadership taster session from Dr Andri Georgiadou, about how to create truly inclusive workplaces where everyone can thrive.
Find out more about Executive Education’s Inclusive Leadership programme.
We also held Degree Apprenticeship information sessions for our Level 6 programmes : Electro-mechanical Engineer Degree Apprenticeship and Data Scientist Degree Apprenticeship .
These gave attendees a programme overview directly from our Programme Directors and allowed them to explore the suitability of our apprenticeship programmes for their business.
Discover more about our Degree Apprenticeships.
Thank you to everyone who attended, it was fantastic to see you and engage in meaningful conversations around Degree Apprenticeships and our wider business offering.
To those who couldn’t make it, we’d love to stay in touch so we can keep you updated with the latest news and updates.
Sign up to our mailing list today.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/education/study/teacher-training/apprenticeships/maths.aspx:
New for 2025, our Mathematics and Education Secondary Teacher Degree Apprenticeship, offers a pioneering route for education providers to develop secondary maths teachers within their school or trust.
Removing the need for a candidate to hold a degree prior to joining, the new teacher degree apprenticeship allows schools to greatly increase their talent pool, and offers a new career path for aspiring teachers, enabling them to gain experience working in a school from the outset.
The programme enables apprentices to develop a deep understanding of mathematics alongside the specialist skills, knowledge and behaviours required to be an engaging maths teacher.
Delivered by our School of Education, which is ranked top 10 in the UK and top 60 worldwide in the QS World Rankings 2025 for education and training , apprentices will be accessing a programme from a top-tier institution, with a long history of producing exceptional teachers.
We would encourage you to read all the information on this page, but if you are re-visiting the page to find specific information, you can use the links below for quick navigation.
BCC at A level with a B in maths.
The following A levels are not accepted: citizenship skills, general studies, and critical thinking.
The University of Nottingham is committed to widening participation and can provide contextual offers to students whose personal circumstances may have affected their academic achievement.
These offers are usually one grade lower than the standard entry requirements for a course but will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Please contact our Employer Engagement Team to discuss the suitability of this programme for your candidate.
All apprentices must:
The programme will start on Monday 1 September 2025.
Apprentices will be required to attend an induction day, in Nottingham, on Tuesday 26 August 2025.
Our Mathematics and Secondary Teacher Degree Apprenticeship offers schools a new route to develop existing staff or recruit new beginner teachers to their organisation.
The programme does not require potential apprentices to hold an undergraduate degree, therefore we expect to welcome apprentices from a range of backgrounds, including those completing their A levels, as well as those already working in schools or looking for a career change.
To access this apprenticeship, candidates must be employed in a job role that provides opportunities to learn the skills, knowledge and behaviours outlined in the Teacher Degree Apprenticeship Standard.
Potential apprentices may have already identified an employing school, but if not, we can support eligible apprentices to find a suitable apprenticeship vacancy.
The university supports the schools they partner with on this apprenticeship to recruit eligible apprentices.
To discuss a candidate’s suitability for the programme, please contact our Employer Engagement Team.
The university is one of eight providers that have been accepted onto the funding pilot for the Teacher Degree Apprenticeship in Mathematics.
This means that eligible employers accessing the university’s programme in September 2025 will be able to claim financial support towards apprentice salary costs.
This is not to be confused with programme fees which can be paid from the apprenticeship levy or via at least 95% government co-investment for eligible employers.
The Mathematics and Education Secondary Teacher Degree Apprenticeship is a four-year programme leading to Qualified Teacher Status.
Apprentices will be full-time employees within a school and will typically spend 40% of their contracted working hours undertaking off-the-job training over the duration of the programme.
This is training that happens away from the apprentices' day-to-day duties, typically face-to-face at the university but may include self-directed study and online learning.
To enable apprentices to deliver impact in their schools, the university’s programme weights off-the-job training into the early years, supporting apprentices to quickly develop the fundamental skills, knowledge and behaviours that will enable them to progress into dynamic, engaging secondary maths teachers.
This will typically look like three days off-the-job training in year one, reducing each year as apprentices become more autonomous in their work and able to undertake more independent teaching.
Our Mathematics and Education Secondary Teacher Degree Apprenticeship is underpinned by a spiral curriculum that supports apprentices to gradually build up, and deepen, their knowledge, skills and understanding as an inclusive, effective teacher.
Drawing on the expertise of the School of Mathematical Science and the cutting-edge research within the School of Education, there is a continual focus on:
Apprentices will develop the basics for becoming a teacher, understanding the role of the teacher and how children learn.
They will learn how to build relationships and effectively work with individual pupils, planning for undertaking a range of roles in their employing school.
Apprentices are introduced to big ideas in education that challenge existing preconceptions about schools, communities and pupils and support them to start developing the skills and behaviours of inclusive practitioners.
In their schools apprentices will be observing experts, understanding how these core skills are implemented in the workplace.
The maths content will build upon pre-existing knowledge, focusing on the development of skills, knowledge and confidence in applying a range of concepts and techniques required across the spectrum of maths.
Apprentices are introduced to logical reasoning and rigorous mathematical thinking as applied to linear algebra and real analysis.
All modules are 20 credits
Building on the knowledge, skills and behaviours gained in year one, apprentices develop their classroom management skills, understanding curriculum and assessment and planning lessons and sequences of learning.
They will continue to explore big ideas in education enabling them to develop as an inclusive practitioner.
In their schools apprentices will begin to increase their teaching experiences (under supervision), practising these core skills.
Apprentices continue to develop their own understanding of maths, focusing on applied statistics and probability and modelling as well as continuing to build a ‘toolkit’ of fundamental maths concepts and techniques.
Apprentices develop their maths subject knowledge for teaching, conceptualising the development of mathematical ideas from KS1 to undergraduate level, enabling them to understand how their teaching forms part of the wider development of a pupil’s mathematics education.
In year three apprentices continue to develop as a teacher, building on previous years’ learning to embed their skills and knowledge.
In their schools apprentices will gradually increase their teaching experiences and may, where appropriate, begin to undertake some independent whole class teaching to practise these skills.
Apprentices continue to explore big ideas in education to develop as an inclusive practitioner including in-depth exploration of refugee education, aspects of special educational needs and disabilities and mental health.
Apprentices consolidate their personal maths knowledge, exploring new ideas.
They will build upon their maths knowledge for teaching, further developing their skills in planning and effective task design.
In year four, apprentices will be spending 90% of their time in school undertaking duties related to their role.
It is expected at this point that apprentices will have sole responsibility for some classes and will be regularly undertaking independent whole class teaching.
Apprentices will collaborate with experts and undertake new teaching experiences under supervision.
Apprentices consolidate their knowledge, skills and behaviours to fulfil their potential as competent and confident secondary maths teachers.
Apprentices undertake a small-scale practice-based inquiry project.
To complete the apprenticeship, apprentices must pass through a gateway review and complete the end-point assessment.
For the Mathematics and Education Secondary Teacher Degree Apprenticeship this means apprentices must:
Apprentices will be trainee teachers within their schools and will undertake duties that will allow them to develop the knowledge, skills and behaviours set out in the Teacher Degree Apprenticeship Standard.
While they are developing in their roles, apprentices will be delivering impact in their schools by working in areas such as interventions, small group teaching, and pastoral care, expanding their remit as they progress.
Our School of Education is top 10 in the UK and top 60 worldwide in the QS World Rankings 2025 by Subject , and our initial teacher education provision is rated outstanding by Ofsted
We work with approximately 150 schools in the region and have a long history of collaborative working, demonstrating the richness of our offer
As part of the application and enrolment process, we carry out an individual needs assessment.
This will enable us to determine apprentices' existing levels of skill and knowledge and build a personal plan which will set out all the learning, tutorial support, and resources provided by the university.
As part of our continued support for apprentices and the degree apprenticeship, we offer tripartite reviews between employer, apprentice and the university to formally assess progress in the academic programme and work-based learning
Assessments are coursework based and focus on how academic learning is applied in the workplace.
This provides the opportunity for work-based examples to demonstrate the application of the knowledge, skills and behaviours gained from off-the-job training.
Each of our degree apprenticeship programmes are designed to include full support for the apprentice and their employer.
Throughout the programme we provide:
University of Nottingham Jubilee Campus Wollaton Road Nottingham, NG8 1BB

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/degree-apprenticeships/employer/degree-apprenticeships-information-for-employers.aspx:
We work with local, regional and national businesses to understand strategic priorities and challenges, and develop the content of each of our programmes to offer real value.
We currently offer the following specialist degree apprenticeships:
By partnering with an institution celebrated for its academic excellence, pioneering research, employability and world-leading campuses and facilities, your business will be able to attract, retain and develop top talent.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/degree-apprenticeships/apprentice/degree-apprenticeships-information-for-apprentices.aspx:
Degree apprenticeships offer you the chance to combine a job with a programme of academic study that awards a bachelor's or master's-level qualification.
And all whilst earning a salary.
As an apprentice, you'll undertake on and off-the-job learning to develop the knowledge, skills and behaviours relevant to your job.
If you're employed in a relevant job role and interested in undertaking a degree apprenticeship, speak to your employer in the first instance.
If you're not employed, you can apply for a job that's advertised as a degree apprenticeship, or join our mailing list to be notified of vacancies with our partner employers.
To be eligible for a degree apprenticeship, you must be:
There will be additional academic entry requirements specific to each programme.
We are proud to be a top 20 university in the UK (QS World University Rankings 2025 and The Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2024)
Looking for support to progress as a professional in your career?
Take a look at our online portal, designed to be your career and personal development one-stop-shop - it's here to support your future aspirations and professional development.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/degree-apprenticeships/degree-apprenticeship-vacancies.aspx:
There are no vacancies available at the moment, however please join our vacancy mailing list to be notified of new apprenticeship vacancies with our partner employers.
Join our degree apprenticeship vacancy mailing list
Join us
Follow us

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/degree-apprenticeships/news/news.aspx:
View Degree Apprenticeship articles below.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/degree-apprenticeships/events/events.aspx:
Explore our Professional and Work-based Learning events.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/degree-apprenticeships/frequently-asked-degree-apprenticeship-questions.aspx:
Here's a selection of things we hear asked by employers, answering some potential questions you may have
All fees associated with an apprenticeship should be paid by the sponsoring employer, this includes travel and accommodation where necessary.
Funding is available to help cover the cost of programme fees and you may be eligible for incentive payments to contribute to any additional costs.
Find out more about apprenticeship funding.
From August 2022, apprentices working full-time (over 30 hours a week) must spend the equivalent of a minimum of six hours a week undertaking off-the-job training - as detailed in the apprenticeship funding rules.
As the degree apprenticeships at the University of Nottingham are level 6 and 7 (bachelors and masters level) the majority of programmes will require a commitment in excess of six hours.
It is important for both the apprentice and their employer to be familiar with the off-the-job training requirements of their apprenticeship programme.
The off-the-job training hours for each apprentice is calculated and shared with them and their employer during the onboarding process and outlined in their specific training plan.
Read more in our off-the-job training guide
As part of the application and enrolment process, we will carry out an individual needs assessment.
This will enable us to determine existing levels of skills, knowledge and behaviours, and build a personal plan for each apprentice that will set out all the learning, tutorial support, and resources provided by the university.
Something on your mind?
We've collated some questions our apprentices sometimes have when considering a degree apprenticeship.
Before applying for a degree apprenticeship you must:
For more information please see our Guide to becoming  a degree apprentice .
The university does not act as a recruitment agency and does not match potential apprentices with employers.
However, you view our partner employer apprenticeship vacancies on our website or search the Find an Apprenticeship service for apprenticeship vacancies in your area.
Apprentices do not pay fees, these are covered by your employer.
Apprentice’s wages are set by their employer.
New vacancies will advertise the salary/wage associated with the role.
Please speak to our Degree Apprenticeship Team who will be able to advise if your qualifications or experience will satisfy the entry requirements of the programme.
How do I find time to undertake my studies on top of my work?
As part of their commitment to the apprenticeship, your employer must give you access to at least 20% of your contracted hours to dedicate to your off-the-job learning.
This protects this time within your working hours for study.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/degree-apprenticeships/enquiries.aspx:
If you would like find out more about our specialist degree apprenticeship programmes, please fill in the form below and a member of our degree apprenticeship team will contact you.
The Professional and Work-based Learning Team use Mailchimp to send out their marketing emails.
You can opt out of receiving marketing communications from the Professional and Work-based Learning team at any time.
For more information please view the University's Privacy Policy .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/utilities/copyright.aspx:
We own or are licensed to use all copyright and other intellectual property rights in and to our website, its design and content, and all technical infrastructure relating to it.
Material contained in our website may be downloaded, viewed and printed for personal non-commercial use or for internal non-commercial circulation within your organisation provided that no trade mark, copyright or other proprietary notices contained in or appearing on such material are removed in whole or in part.
Material contained in our website may not otherwise be copied, reproduced or redistributed in whole or in part without our prior written permission.
In particular, it must not be reproduced or exploited for commercial gain.
All other rights are reserved and you must ask our permission before making any other use of material contained in our website.
This permission to reproduce material does not extend to material identified as belonging to third parties, where you must obtain the permission of the relevant owners before reproducing such material.
The trade marks and logos (including The University of Nottingham "castle" logo) used and displayed on our website are our registered and unregistered trade marks or those of others.
This website has been developed using Contensis R5 Web Content Management System from Zengenti.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/visitorinformation/mapsanddirections/mapsanddirections.aspx:
Where is Nottingham
You can get directions and travel information, campus maps and Google maps by clicking on the links below:
Floor plans of University buildings showing room numbers along with accessible entrances, toilets and lifts, access ramps and automatic doors are available from the Estates Office website:
Estates Office floor and access plans

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/study-sustainability.aspx:
Discover our sustainability courses
Study towards a greener future at the University of Nottingham
This is the place that's making the sustainable obtainable.
The University of Nottingham is the perfect place to study for a greener future.
We're the 7th most sustainable university in the world (UI GreenMetric World University Ranking 2023) and our leading research is solving real-world problems as we work towards our 17 Sustainable Development Goals .
We have a huge range of courses, both undergraduate and postgraduate, that draw from our sustainable research to educate and inspire the next generation.
Discover some of our sustainability-focused courses below or view our full range of undergraduate and postgraduate courses and PhD opportunities .
All Faculty of Arts undergraduate courses have the option to study sustainability through the Engaged Arts suite of modules .
Sustainability modules are embedded in the Cultural, Media and Visual Studies courses.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/student-experience/index.aspx:
World-class facilities.
Beautiful campuses.
A city that is full of life and buzzing with culture, sport and nightlife.
All this makes for a student experience you won’t find anywhere else.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/faqs/faqs.aspx:
Please select a category or view our glossary of terms .
If you can't find what you are looking for, please contact us .
See our visiting us pages for information on the best way to experience our campuses.
Students who live in halls of residence or have a term-time address within a radius of 15 miles of University Park or Jubilee Campus will not be eligible for a permit.
The university offers support for students who have a disability, dyslexia or a long-term medical condition.
For information, visit our accessibility webpage.
The university has an excellent range of support services which cover areas including health, welfare and study support.
Nottingham can be an affordable city to live in compared to other parts of the UK.
The entry requirements listed on our course pages indicate the typical requirement for each course.
If you have studied a different qualification to A levels or IB, please check our alternative qualifications listings .
Most postgraduate taught courses start in mid-September and postgraduate research courses start at the beginning of October.
Other dates may be available – check course pages for details.
Although most postgraduate courses do not formally close for applications, places are limited and courses may become full.
International applicants should apply as early as possible.
We set a deadline in early August to ensure you have enough time to apply for your student visa.
Applications for teacher training and MA Social Work are made through UCAS so different deadline dates apply.
If you have applied for a taught masters course, we aim to have a decision to you within 6 to 8 weeks provided you have sent all your supporting documents.
You will receive an email message once the status of your application has changed if you have applied online.
Applicants should hold a good first degree with at least second-class honours (or international equivalent).
Taught courses can provide anything from vocational training to preparation for further research.
They are generally delivered by lecture, seminar or lab session.
They usually last around one year for full-time study and course content is broken down into modules.
Entry to most PhD courses is available on five dates throughout the year: 1 October, 1 December, 1 February, 1 April and 1 July.
However, we recommend that you check our online course pages for details of specific start dates or contact theschool/department for details.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/fees/tuition-fees-student-services.aspx:
Information about 2025/26 tuition fees
Student Services provides details on paying your fees:
Funding and Financial Support provides information and advice on money issues and funding.
For details about who to contact for queries regarding student tuition fees and financial support, please visit our contact us page.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studentservices/support/financialsupport/studentfunding/index.aspx:
Loans, grants, bursaries or scholarships - your student funding depends on the course you are taking, your residency status, where you live in term time and your household income.
View the table below and click the button relevant to you, to find out which funding you may be eligible for.
Undergraduate student with 'home' fee status* including:
Nursing, midwifery, physiotherapy, dietetics students
Students on part-time courses
Undergraduate funding information
* A 'home' student is one who meets certain UK residence criteria.
These are the same criteria as apply to eligibility for home funding from Student Finance.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/campuses/universityparkcampus.aspx:
Read full video transcript
University of Nottingham University Park Nottingham NG7 2RD UK Telephone: +44 (0)115 951 5151 Fax: +44 (0)115 951 3666
Maps and directions
The hub of student life is the Portland Building, which houses the Students' Union, the Student Support Centre, as well as shops, banks, bars and restaurants.
Cycling routes and facilities Car parking
The local community are welcome to enjoy the walks , parks and gardens in the University’s landscaped settings which feature:
The campus has been a Civic Trust Green Flag Award Winner every year since 2003 – the only university campus to achieve this status.
Please visit Estates website for more information about the grounds.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/campuses/jubileecampus.aspx:
University of Nottingham Jubilee Campus Wollaton Road Nottingham NG8 1BB Telephone: +44 (0)115 951 5151
The initial phase was opened by Her Majesty the Queen in 1999.
The state-of-the-art facilities now include:

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/campuses/suttonboningtoncampus.aspx:
The campus is home to over 2,500 students from the Schools of Biosciences and Veterinary Medicine , which creates a place where it’s easy to get to know your fellow students and teaching teams, yet part of a wider global community.
Sutton Bonington's dedicated Student Hub is located in The Burrow, in The Barn and is your 'one stop shop' for student queries.
For information and support about facilities, services or anything else you can contact or visit the Student Hub team.
For campus information please visit the Student Hub SharePoint site.
You can find up to date and regular information about the Sutton Bonington campus on our Instagram page: @uonsuttonbonington
Sutton Bonington Instagram page
Telephone: +44 (0)115 951 5151

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/postgraduatestudies/masters-open-day.aspx:
Explore our world-class facilities, meet leading academics, and discover how a postgraduate degree from the University of Nottingham can advance your career.
Saturday 11 October
10am-2pm
Business School South building, Jubilee Campus.
Registration will be in the Atrium.
Our open day is your chance to find out what Nottingham has to offer you.
Along with speaking to academic staff and current students, you can also:
National Highways are currently carrying out significant roadworks, which may result in diversions and delays which are likely to impact your journey.
If you're planning to travel by car, we strongly recommend using one of the local Park and Ride sites.
More detailed information on the best way to travel to us can be found below.
To help ensure a smooth journey, please also:
We’re committed to making our university truly sustainable and encourage you to use public transport where possible.
Parking will be available at our Jubilee Campus where the event is taking place.
Please use postcode NG8 1BB.
When you arrive, you will be directed to the best place to park by a member of staff.
Parking on campus is free during the event.
The Jubilee Campus is 2 miles from Nottingham train station — about a 40-minute walk or a short bus ride.
You can find out more about all the buses which serve Jubilee Campus on our bus service webpage .
Nottingham is easily accessible by coach, with arrivals to Broadmarsh bus station in the city centre.
There will be accommodation open for you to explore during your visit.
You don't need to book in advance.
Before your visit, you can find out more about the different accommodation types on offer on our accommodation page.
View our accommodation options

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/visitorinformation/information.aspx:
Cycle facilities, route maps and more
Public transport to our campuses
Car parking information
About travelling between campuses
If you are visiting The University and need somewhere to stay, there are a number of visitor options available to you.
Accommodation options

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/history/academichighlights.aspx:
The University of Nottingham reached a landmark in its long list of academic achievements in 2003 when Sir Peter Mansfield was awarded the Nobel Prize for Medicine for his work in the application of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
The award is shared with the late Paul Lauterbur from the University of Illinois.
MRI has been compared to the discovery of x-rays in its significance to medicine, becoming an indispensable tool in medical diagnostics, drastically reducing the need for invasive surgery.
There are over 60 million MRI scans carried out worldwide each year.
The importance of Sir Peter's work led to the founding of the Magnetic Resonance Centre in 1991 - now named the Sir Peter Mansfield Magnetic Resonance Centre in his honour.
Also in 2003, former University of Nottingham student and academic, the late Professor Clive Granger, was awarded the Nobel Prize for Economic Science.
He spent 22 years at The University of Nottingham as an undergraduate, lecturer and professor before moving to the University of California in San Diego.
The University is proud of its interdisciplinary approach to research which will continue to see developments in the field of MRI, as well as other key strategic areas of research including the follwing research Priority Groups:
With the University's investment in new research, there are bound to be many more highlights in the future.
For further information on research at The University of Nottingham visit the Research website .
The University of Nottingham saw its position as one of Britain’s leading research universities confirmed with the results of the Research Excellence Framework 2014 – the UK’s definitive guide to research quality and excellence.
The University ranked 8th in the British Top 10.
Further information on the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2014 .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/history/famousgraduates.aspx:
“One of the markers of a great university is the quality of its alumni.
We have a very large community of successful alumni, playing leading roles in education, business and the business sector and of course, it is a genuinely multinational community.”
Professor David Greenaway, former Vice-Chancellor
From Nobel prize winners to Olympic gold medallists, leading edge scientists, international politicians, journalists, novelists and actresses, Nottingham’s alumni continue to make significant contributions in their chosen fields all over the world.
Of course, Nottingham's most famous former student is novelist DH Lawrence .
For more information, visit the DH Lawrence website .
More recent noteworthy graduates include:
2003 saw The University of Nottingham gain recognition with two major awards:
Nottingham Alumni have also been active in the arts and media.
Former University of Nottingham students include:
Nottingham alumni have been active in media ownership.
London 2012 saw the University continue its strong Olympic tradition, with Nottingham alumni picking up five medals in the competition.
These medallists head an amazing list of sporting alumni elite which includes:

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/government-relations/index.aspx:
Nottingham law experts appointed to Lord Chancellor’s panel for the Independent Review of Criminal Legal Aid
University collaborates with Indonesian Embassy to co-host COVID-19 performance assessment
Prorogation of the British Parliament: A constitutional coup?
Chief Nursing Officer visits student nurses’ leadership summit in Nottingham
Whatever lies ahead, our international community of staff and students will remain at the heart of our University.
Now more than ever we will ensure our University is a place where diversity is welcomed, cherished and respected.
EEA/EU Immigration Advice for Staff is available here .
Government Relations is overseen by the Global and Public Affairs Unit which aims to highlight and enhance the transformative potential of the world class research carried out across the University.
The Unit also works with external representatives from local, national and international government, political parties, and major businesses to increase public understanding of the aims and activities of the University.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/campuses/medicalschool.aspx:
The Medical School opened in 1970 as part of the QMC (Queen's Medical Centre) and was the first to be established in the UK in the 20th century.
Major investments have been made to provide modern, high quality facilities.
It is located adjacent to University Park , across the busy A52.
The two campuses are linked by a pedestrian footbridge giving easy access to the University Park facilities .
University of Nottingham Medical School Queen's Medical Centre Nottingham NG7 2UH Telephone: +44 (0)115 951 5151
The Medical School is used by many of our medicine and health sciences students (midwifery and nursing), and by those studying on our life sciences courses (biochemistry and neurosciences).
The Medical School also houses the Clinical Skills Centre , labs, lecture rooms, seminar rooms, a resource room, a dissection suite and the Greenfield Medical library .
The University also has Education Centres based at the following hospitals:

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/campuses/malaysiacampus.aspx:
The University of Nottingham Malaysia opened in September 2000.
It was the first ever branch campus of a British University established outside the UK - earning the distinction of the Queen's Award for Enterprise 2001 and the Queen's Award for Industry (International Trade) 2006.
In September 2005, the University moved to its new purpose-built campus at Semenyih, Selangor – 60 minutes away from Kuala Lumpur.
Spanning across 48-hectare of beautifully landscaped gardens, the campus is a self-contained village that is designed to mirror the attributes of University Park in the UK, housing over 4,300 students.
It combines a high-quality living environment with state-of-the-art learning, teaching and research facilities.
Other campus amenities include:
Transport is available from the campus to the nearest bus and rail stations providing easy access to Kuala Lumpur and the surrounding region.
The University of Nottingham Malaysia Jalan Broga 43500 Semenyih Selangor Darul Ehsan Malaysia Telephone (General Enquiry): +603 (0)8924 8000
Telephone Programme Enquiry +603 (0) 8924 8686
WhatsApp: +6(0)19 280 8000
Enquiries: Make an enquiry
Interim Provost and CEO: Professor David FitzPatrick
LinkedIn : https://www.linkedin.com/school/uonmalaysia/
Xiaohongshu : 马来西亚诺丁汉大学
Facebook : https://www.facebook.com/UoNMalaysia
Instagram : https://www.instagram.com/UoNMalaysia/
TikTok : https://www.tiktok.com/@uonmalaysia
YouTube : https://www.youtube.com/UoNMalaysia
University of Nottingham Malaysia Campus website

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/campuses/kingsmeadowcampus.aspx:
King's Meadow Campus was acquired by The University of Nottingham in 2005, and has since been refurbished and extensively landscaped, with peaceful gardens and a fresh injection of year-round colour and foliage.
The new name for the former ITV television studio complex in Nottingham was inspired by the adjacent King’s Meadow Nature Reserve, alongside the River Leen.
The King’s Meadow Campus is framed by the dramatic “Learning Curve” entrance and accommodates many of the University’s professional services and business support departments.
Situated on the edge of the Dunkirk district, it is less than a mile from University Park and Jubilee Campus , and many offices and meeting rooms overlook Nottingham’s historic castle.
King’s Meadow Campus is home to Manuscripts and Special Collections .
Manuscripts and Special Collections
University of Nottingham Kings Meadow Campus Lenton Lane Nottingham NG7 2NR UK Telephone: +44 (0)115 951 5151

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/campuses/chinacampus.aspx:
The University's strong links with China resulted in an invitation to become the first foreign university to establish an independent campus, under new legislation passed in China in 2003.
The campus is located in Ningbo, a historic city on China's eastern coast close to Shanghai, and has been developed in partnership with the dynamic and innovative Wanli Education Group.
The 140 acre Ningbo campus was opened to students in 2004  and was officially opened by John Prescott, the UK's Deputy Prime Minister, in February 2006.
Like the Malaysia Campus , Ningbo Campus builds on the attributes of University Park in the UK and includes a lake and its own version of Nottingham's famous Trent Building.
The campus provides purpose-built facilities for nearly 8,000 students, including:
The new campus is situated on the Ningbo Higher Education Park, which also has excellent complementary facilities, including a new Municipal Library and Sports Stadium.
All teaching is carried out in English and the degrees awarded are University of Nottingham degrees.
A range of undergraduate and postgraduate courses and opportunities are available for students wishing to study in China.
The University is delighted to have been awarded the Queen's Award for Enterprise 2001 and the Queen's Award for Industry (International Trade) in 2006 in recognition of its innovation in establishing campuses overseas.
University of Nottingham Ningbo China 199 Taikang East Road Ningbo 315100 China Telephone: +86 (0)574 8818 0000 Fax: +86 (0)574 8818 0188 Email: admissions@nottingham.edu.cn Provost and CEO: Professor Jon Garibaldi
Visit University of Nottingham Ningbo China website

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/vet:
Gain the skills and experience you need to become a successful veterinary professional .
You'll learn in an award-winning, research-focused, supportive environment, that's highly rated by our students.
Research-focused postgraduate degrees that help develop your research career
Strengthen your workforce and business through apprenticeships, CPD and specialist services
Our research informs our teaching and has an impact across species and around the world.
We are exploring and unearthing new discoveries in viruses, cancer and neurodegenerative disease as well as animal welfare and technology.
News
Events and short courses
Connect with us
University of Nottingham Sutton Bonington Campus Leicestershire, LE12 5RD
telephone: +44 (0)115 951 6116 fax: +44 (0)115 951 6415 email: veterinary-enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/keydates/closure-dates.aspx:
Buildings will be closed on the following dates, except for any special arrangements which may be made by Heads of Schools or Services or the Conference Office.
During these closures access to 24-hour computer rooms will be by University Card.
Arrangements will be made to provide access to libraries as far as possible.
These arrangements do not apply to Halls of Residence which will continue to follow their existing practices as set out in the conditions of employment of their staff.
The Lakeside Arts Centre will put its own operational hours into practice subject to the demands of programming.
University of Nottingham Sports Facilities will operate reduced opening hours during the University and bank holiday dates.
Details regarding opening times and activities available are shown at https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/sport/
The symbols against the dates have the following meanings:
PH = Public and Bank Holidays UH = University Holidays C = Closure of Buildings
University calendar dates Calendar of meetings Registrar's Department

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studentservices/servicedetails/graduation/index.aspx:
Everything you need to know about graduating in 2025
It will soon be time to come together to celebrate your efforts at your graduation ceremony and welcome you to your alumni community.
9 to 12 December 2025
David Ross Sports Village University Park Campus Beeston Lane Lenton Abbey NG7 2RJ
Ceremony dates and times
You can decide when, where and how you graduate from the three options below.
What you need to do
Check your ceremony date and time
Each school and department has a specific ceremony date and time, so make sure you check when yours is and make a note of the date.
Keep an eye on your emails
We will let you know when registration will open, along with detailed instructions on what you need to do.
Register how you'd like to graduate
When registration opens, you will need to log in to NottinghamHub and complete the registration form to let us know how you'd like to graduate.
Schedules confirmed in early 2026
Graduation marks the culmination of many years of hard work and dedication from our students.
Giving family, friends, and staff at the university the opportunity to congratulate our new graduates and celebrate their achievements.
Mark the occasion by sharing your snaps on Instagram and tagging @uniofnottingham #WeAreUoN

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/structure/management/managementandgovernance.aspx:
The University of Nottingham is a corporation formed by Royal Charter and holds charitable status.
Two main bodies are involved in the governance of the University:
The day-to-day management of the University is the responsibility of University Executive Board.
The University's governing body is the Council, which meets five times a year.
It approves the strategic plans of the University and is ultimately responsible for its finances, buildings and staff.
It approves all major developments and receives regular reports from Executive Officers, and is required to present audited financial statements.
The Council is made up of:
Find out more about the University Council
The academic authority of the University is the Senate, which meets three times a year.
Its responsibility is to direct and regulate teaching and examinations, and to promote research.
The Senate is chaired by the Vice-Chancellor and its membership includes:
The University’s Executive Board meets monthly and comprises:
Support for the governance of the University is provided by the Registrar's Department .
Read our new University strategy here .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/structure/university-executive-board/university-executive-board.aspx:
The University Executive Board (UEB) is the University's senior leadership team, the structure for the team can be found here .
The board is responsible for steering and supporting the strategic direction of the University.
Committees reporting to UEB can be found here .
The University Executive Board meets monthly throughout the year.
Minutes of the University Executive Board meetings can be found here .
Should you have a paper to submit for UEB for consideration, please find the meeting schedule here .
The UEB exists to:
For further information on the University Executive Board, please contact the Governance Team, Governance & Assurance:
BR-Governance@ad.nottingham.ac.uk
Membership of the UEB is as follows:
Vice-Chancellor's Office
Executive Assistant: Ruth Anderson
Executive Assistant: Patty Jiang
Executive Assistant: Zabidah Yusof
Executive Assistant: Daniel Shaw
Executive Assistant: Jane Weston
Executive Assistant: Karen Riordan
Executive Assistant: Lorraine Kirk
Executive Assistant: Cat Smith
Executive Assistant: Helen White
Executive Assistant: Ruth Clements
For Executive Support, please contact the CPO Office
Executive Assistant: Jayne Lawrence

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/strategy/strategic-delivery-plans.aspx:
Strategic Delivery Plans (SDPs) are plans aligned to the University of Nottingham Strategy which identify how values, goals, enablers and cross-cutting issues will be taken forward.
We have developed these to ensure that our strategy becomes a lived reality.
The strategy is also embedded within the university’s annual Business Planning Round and the Appraisal and Development Conversation (ADC), as well as through many other events and activities.
Each SDP sets out the strategic priorities for that area and has an accompanying action plan outlining how those priorities will be achieved within set timeframes.
A summary of the priorities within each SDP can be downloaded below:
The full Strategic Delivery Plan for each area can be found by clicking on the buttons below:
The full Functional Delivery and Influencing Plans that support our strategic aims can be found by clicking on the buttons below:
For any further information on the SDPs and their implementation please contact Planning, Performance & Strategic Change .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/global/strategy/index.aspx:
The new Global Engagement Strategic Delivery Plan was launched in Spring 2021.
This Strategic Delivery Plan outlines the University's priorities to deliver the Strategic goal of 'Cultivating a Global Mindset':
University Strategy Partnerships Contact us
We will provide an international experience for everyone (International Experience)
We will refine our curricula in light of new global demands (Global Curricula)
We will create an on-campus culture of positive interaction among people from different parts of the world (Campus Culture)
We will deepen our international research and teaching partnerships (International Partnerships)
We will provide appropriate mobility opportunities for staff and students (International Mobility)
6.
We will buildour reputation as Britain’s foremost global university where ambition, creativity, and a global mindset will enable us to change the world for the better (Global Reputation)

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/currentstudents/study-abroad/index.aspx:
Applications usually take place during the autumn semester of the academic year before you would go on exchange.
To see what options are available for your specific subject area go to the Global opportunities by school webpages.
Find us on Facebook
Join us on Instagram
Global opportunities blog
Global opportunities events
Study abroad at Nottingham UK
Students at the University of Nottingham UK can apply to study for a semester or an academic year at one of our partner universities across the world
Students based at the University of Nottingham UK can study for one semester or an academic year at our China and Malaysia campuses
Opportunities for University of Nottingham UK undergraduate students to study at an international summer school
Funding for study or work placements in eligible countries for University of Nottingham UK students
Global opportunities for your specific subject area
Study abroad experiences of University of Nottingham UK students
A report by the International Education Unit* found there was a lower unemployment rate amongst students who studied abroad and 92% of students graduated with a 2:1 or 1st, as opposed to 80% for those who didn’t study abroad.
You don’t need to be able to speak another language to study abroad, as most partner universities including those across Europe and our overseas campuses teach in English.
While making an effort to learn some of the local language before you leave will help you settle in, you don’t need to be a fluent speaker to have a great study abroad experience but studying abroad is a great way to improve your language skills.
While some courses have a degree structure that means you can’t take part in a ‘traditional’ one semester or year-long exchange, they may have other opportunities like field trips, one or two week placements abroad or you may be able to do a year in industry abroad.
All undergraduate students have the opportunity to apply for an International Summer School through the University of Nottingham.
Money is often seen as one of the biggest barriers to studying abroad but it doesn’t have to be.
The range of opportunities at Nottingham gives you the chance to look for a study abroad option that fits your budget by choosing a country with a low cost of living, a country close to home with low travel costs or a short-term study option.
If you study abroad for a semester or year you will receive a tuition fee discount, be eligible for an overseas rate of loan and be able to apply for the Student Finance Travel Grant.
Universities UK International
University of Nottingham University Park Nottingham, NG7 2RD, UK

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/global/partnerships/universitas21.aspx:
The University of Nottingham is proud to be one of the founder members of Universitas 21 (U21), the leading international network of research-intensive universities.
Through the U21 network we are actively engaged in a range of collaborative activities with like-minded universities around the world.
This enables us to:
The Universitas 21 network supports staff and students in many activities at the University of Nottingham.
The network of Universitas 21 universities has opened up student mobility options to a much wider group of students at Nottingham through the options of semester long programmes, summer schools and specialist research conferences.
University of Nottingham staff can also benefit from the network, whether this is though a collaborative group or by taking part in a specialised conference.
We have a central fund to help staff towards the costs of travelling to partners and to help support U21 projects.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/global/partnerships/partnerships-home.aspx:
The University of Nottingham works with stakeholders and partners around the world in a number of different ways.
In the past five years, our researchers have collaborated with over 6,500 other institutions around the world, with over half of all our publication outputs featuring international collaboration.
The University also works with foreign governments and industry to deliver training and expertise .
We are also proud to be a member of innovative international networks such as Universitas 21 .
In education, Nottingham has exchange and study abroad agreements with over 400 universities around the world, and has in-depth teaching partnerships with around 50 key partner universities, supporting hundreds of students each year to obtain uniquely international qualifications.
Nottingham also works with a select group of partners to provide bespoke international summer schools.
Universitas 21
Contact Us
We are very proud to work with some of the best universities in the world but we are also very keen for universities to contact us to discuss new collaboration ideas..
Nottingham works with leading universities around the world to deliver collaborative awards
We have student exchange and study abroad partners around the world.
We work with partner universities to deliver bespoke summer schools.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/strategy/enablers.aspx:
We will foster an inclusive environment which supports mental and physical wellbeing, the health, safety and security of our staff and students and empowers people to achieve their potential.
We will use and develop our assets more effectively to enhance teaching, research and the student experience.
We will further develop our governance arrangements to provide a highly effective decision-making framework that serves our ambitions, that ensures that we are transparent in our processes, that welcomes challenge and debate, and that enables decisions to be made at the right levels of the organisation.
We will ensure that we meet or exceed our legal and regulatory expectations in all respects.
We will create new income streams and reduce wasteful expenditure so that we can continue to fund ambitious investments to further our core purposes.
We will encourage boldness and innovation while keeping our community safe in both the physical and virtual worlds.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/strategy/resources.aspx:
A pack of presentation material which can be tailored to teams or events.
Includes speaker’s notes, links to further sources of information and discussion prompts to support teams in considering “what the strategy means for us”.
A diagram which shows the many components of the University’s Strategic Planning Framework and includes guidance to provide further context and describe the approach.
An overview of the approach to developing Strategic Delivery Plans.
Approved plans are available to download from the Strategic Delivery Plans page.
This document describes the University’s Business Planning process and outlines the key stages in the annual development of plans for Faculties and Professional Services Departments.
An overview of the principles which apply to the University’s Performance Framework.
The links below collate further information to support embedding and implementing the University Strategy:
Appraisal and Development Conversations
Risk Management Workspace
Leadership and Management Academy (LMA) Hub
UN Sustainable Development Goals
Sustainable Development Goals Compass
City of Nottingham Carbon Neutral Charter 2028

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/new-university-strategy/green-paper-consultation.aspx:
Following the feedback received from many staff who participated in the 21st Century University events in November 2018, a Green Paper consultation documen t was published to invite further discussion and capture views on the most significant choices we need to make in developing the new University Strategy.
To support considerations, a report on some of the global trends which will influence our external context as a University was also published.
The University community was invited to study the Green Paper and contribute their views during March and April 2019.
We would like to thank all our staff, students and alumni for sharing their views on the consultation through the questionnaire, town hall meetings , local team meetings and consultation stands that took place across our UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
This part of the consultation received in excess of 17,000 pieces of feedback from more than 2,000 individuals and groups, which was a great response.
All the ideas and feedback received were reviewed in detail and were carefully considered to inform the next-stage White Paper consultation.
The strategy Green Paper consultation report provides an analysis of all contributions grouped into themes, along with responses.
A Tableau Workbook contains a summary of the responses received to the questions in the online survey.
A compilation of all the comments that were received during the consultation is also available.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/education/news/news-items/news2425/internationalisation-3.aspx:
The first webinar in the internationalisation of education webinar series took place on 4 March 2025 and focussed on how internationalisation is interpreted and approached within African HEIs, touching on aspects of policy and practice, and identifying priorities for further study and collaboration - Summary of session 1 (PDF)
The second webinar on 6 May 2025  buought together colleagues to explore the evolving landscape of internationalisation in African higher education.
This session focused on the policy dimensions of internationalisation; what is working, and what still needs to be addressed - Summary of session 2 (PDF)
Read more about the webinar series including aims, topics and further details about future 2025 session.
The next event is:
Session 3: Internationalisation and Sustainability Policy and Practice in African Higher Education Date: Monday 1 September 2025 Time: 12 noon GMT / 1pm BST Aim: Discuss how internationalisation strategies address sustainability and global citizenship, identify gaps, and suggest recommendations.
Further details and register attendance

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/education/news/news-items/news2425/cambodia.aspx:
Our colleagues at the University of Nottingham's Malaysia campus are hosting teachers from Neeson Cripps Academy in Cambodia this week for a professional development programme focused on leadership styles, technology enhanced teaching and learning and education for sustainable development.
Their development is being supported by a project led by Professor Lucy Cooker from the School of Education (UK) and is funded by the university.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/sociology/news/news-articles/2025/grant-success-for-dr-shardia.aspx:
Black Sexual Politics: Exploring Notions of Sex and Sexuality amongst Black Men in the UK - August 2025 - April 2026
Dr Shardia Briscoe-Palmer has been awarded a British Academy Small Grant for her project Black Sexual Politics: Exploring Notions of Sex and Sexuality amongst Black Men in the UK.
The sexualisation of the Black body, though explored in depth, offers little way into the experiences of Black male bodies and their sexual agency.
However, with little regard toward Black male bodies – historical or present- constructions of Black masculinities via racialised notions of sex and sexuality are lost.
This project examines how ideas surrounding the sexualisation of the black body has placed a legacy of fearmongering yet a fetishisation of black men’s sexuality.
It will lead to several scholarly outputs, a programme of public engagement which collates lived experiences with photographic recording and an oral history collection with narratives on feared and fetished.
The project will conduct archival research on recorded displays of Black sexual politics in a historical context, which are often forgotten.
This activity will start to shape narratives of Black Sexual Politics and structure content to feed forward into other project activities.
The project will also conduct focus groups to gather lived and shared experiences of Black sexual politics.
Finally, this project will conclude with a programme of public engagement, through an interactive symposium inclusive of a photographic exhibition display, Spring 2026.
It will investigate links between fearmongering and fetishisation of the Black male body and unpack themes including hypermasculinity, hypersexuality and (homo)sexuality.
Law and Social Sciences building University of Nottingham University Park Nottingham, NG7 2RD

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/new-university-strategy/white-paper-consultation.aspx:
Following 17,000 pieces of feedback from more than 2,000 groups and individuals who participated in the University Strategy Green Paper consultation, a White Paper consultation was published to invite further views to refine and finalise the content of the new strategy.
Colleagues were invited to review the proposed content for inclusion in the University strategy, which was not a draft of the strategy itself, rather the substance of the proposed content alongside examples of projects and initiatives that were suggested by staff that would be in line with the goals proposed.
The White Paper Consultation Report provides an analysis by theme of almost 6,000 pieces of feedback from more than 1,400 individual or group responses.
A compilation of all comments received during the consultation is also available as group responses , individual responses and questionnaire responses .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/new-university-strategy/21st-century-university-workshops.aspx:
Engagement with staff and stakeholders is critical in producing a strategy that both reflects and drives the work of us all at the University - and that engagement with University staff starts at the very beginning.
During November 2018 University Executive Board members hosted the 21st Century University workshop sessions for faculty and professional, operational and technical services staff in the UK and overseas to generate ideas that will form the building blocks of our new University strategy.
More than 3,500 comments and ideas were submitted and we are grateful to every colleague who took the time to make their views known.
Advance HE workshop facilitator, Alistair Work, has published this summary report .
To see the full range of views and ideas, all feedback from staff participating in the workshops or submitting comments online are reproduced verbatim in the 21st-century university staff feedback document .
The workshop materials remain available to view at the following links:

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/facts/teachingquality.aspx:
The Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education (QAA) works with higher education institutions to define, safeguard and improve academic standards and the quality of higher education in the UK.
In the most recent QAA Institutional Audit (2016) the University was recognised as a provider of high quality and standards with the award of the Quality Mark.
The review highlighted good practice in five areas, including opportunities for student employability and the Transforming Teaching Programme.
The team of QAA reviewers visited the University in April 2016, as part of its remit to safeguard the public interest in the quality and standards of UK higher education.
The review was carried out by experts from other universities and a student reviewer.
The review team judged that the University’s academic standards, the quality of its student learning opportunities and the quality of its information about learning opportunities all met UK standards.
Areas of good practice were identified in: opportunities for student employability, peer observation of teaching, embedded engagement with students to promote learning opportunities, the University’s Teaching and Learning Review process and its Transforming Teaching Programme.
Following the review and release of the final report; the University have released their action plan .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/about/facts/researchexcellence.aspx:
Results from the 2021 Research Excellence Framework (REF2021) reaffirm the University of Nottingham as among the best universities in the UK for the strength of our research.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/vision/culture-communication/culture-and-communication.aspx:
We work with more than 50 cultural organisations globally, from Europe and Hollywood to China.
Our partnerships with the UK’s creative and heritage industries inspire audiences and enrich lives.
We connect communities through innovative technologies and empower organisations to deliver positive change.
Professor Maiken Umbach is challenging the use of Nazi photographs in commemorating and teaching about the Holocaust
A trio of Nottingham researchers are helping to challenge perceptions of the Greek city-state of Sparta, changing long-held beliefs about this ancient society.
What next for the movie industry?
A researcher is helping film-makers in Hollywood plan ahead.
How the Hungry for Words project is raising awareness of eating disorders in men
Art historian Dr Gabriele Neher and colleagues are on a mission to modernise museums, breathing life into the stories of their exhibits and exploring new ways to engage audiences.
Our heritage lottery-funded project has helped the Theatre Royal to develop a new volunteer-led approach to researching its history
The Periodic Table of Videos: sharing science with over 200 million viewers
New wave modelling is helping roll out the next digital revolution
From soundscapes of Bradford to compositions in caves, Dr James Mansell explains how he is working with museums to enrich visitors’ experiences
Professor Andrew Fisher is pioneering the teaching of philosophy – from the primary school to post-doctoral level – and transforming the way thousands of children across the East Midlands are taught.
Local businesses, charities and the NHS have all benefited from the work of academic Jonathan Tallant, who specialises in putting philosophical concepts to use in the real world
A ground-breaking book by Professor John Milbank has sent ripples through the world of politics with its post-liberal approach to creating fairer societies of the future.
Dr Roderick Dale’s fascination with the Vikings is shared by many: 9,000-plus people attended the record-breaking exhibition Danelaw Saga: Bringing Vikings Back to the East Midlands
Online learning is not only deepening engagement with a worldwide community of participants: it enriches research.
Dr Richard Gaunt’s work on the history of rebellion in Nottingham has been crucial in the transformation of one of the city’s major landmarks, attracting interest from across the world.
University academics are helping the residents of a Norfolk village uncover the remnants of its Roman past in a unique community archaeology project.
Will Bowden, Professor of Roman Archaeology, explains.
The discovery of an ancient method of learning music is revolutionising the way children and adults are being taught across Europe.
Professor Nicholas Baragwanath explains.
Iron Age coins are revealing fascinating details about the East Midlands during this period
How DH Lawrence’s life is promoting a greater appreciation of the literary and mining heritage of Eastwood among school pupils
How studying the chemical composition of ancient glass objects reveals a hidden past
Sir Martyn Poliakoff, periodic table, experimental
Dr Rebecca Senior, a Henry Moore Foundation Postdoctoral Fellow, has created a series of resources to support institutions grappling with legacies of colonialism by engaging with recent debates over contested art in the UK.
Dr Angus Davison on the Jeremy the snail phenomenon and life as a Media Fellow
The Institute for Policy and Engagement’s listening posts around Highfields Park offers the public chance encounters with groundbreaking research and ideas from the university.
Our response to the virus has given researchers the opportunity to reflect on what a renewed sense of community and shared purpose can achieve
Bringing an iconic collection of dinosaur fossils from China to a Nottingham museum was a remarkable coup and forged new partnerships with the fastest-growing sector of its kind in the world
Dr Peter Kirwan ponders what theatre will look like when the lights go back up
Roger Highfield of the Science Museum Group on the elemental joy of songwriter Tom Lehrer’s witty classic.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/vision/healthy-lives/healthy-lives.aspx:
We’ve saved the NHS £2bn in recent years.
At the birthplace of MRI, we are delivering new revolutions in healthcare, from better monitoring of unborn babies and easing the suffering of young burns victims , to advancing breakthrough drugs and unlocking the secrets of the brain .
Discover how Jampa’s partnered with the University of Nottingham’s Food Innovation Centre to reformulate plant-based foods to enhance nutritional value.
A pioneering initiative at the University of Nottingham is helping employers create more inclusive workplaces for neurodivergent individuals by combining research, lived experience, and practical tools to remove barriers and support diverse talent to thrive.
£29 million national scanning facility will help the UK lead the world in ultra-high field imaging to transform understanding of the brain and treatment of disease
Researchers at the University of Nottingham have transformed awareness of childhood brain tumours
A world-leading breakthrough in wireless foetal heart-monitoring will help save lives in delivery suites across the globe
Meet Steve Morgan the driven innovator using technology to assess injuries in seconds
Professor Wei Shen Lim’s contribution to studies on pneumonia vaccination and treatment for Covid-19 have a profound influence
Meet Matt Brookes the driven innovator behind the world’s first “wearable” scanner
Research carried out at the University of Nottingham has played a key role in the decision to give vaccines in community pharmacies, helping people across the world access vaccinations more easily and saving thousands of lives.
A research project tracking hospital doctors at work is helping to improve patient care
Meet Gary Mirams the analytical thinker transforming global drug-testing
A new way to treat one of the world’s most common bacterial infections without the use of antibiotics.
Professor Carol Coupland is developing risk prediction algorithms to help identify individuals at high risk from heart disease, diabetes and other diseases
An online tool is helping GPs and pharmacists reduce the risk of prescription errors for millions of patients
By impregnating devices used in brain operations and procedures with antibiotics, Roger Bayston has helped save lives and improve outcomes for countless patients
Clinical trials led by University of Nottingham researchers have transformed treatment and care of patients, says Professor Kim Thomas
Clinical trials are now testing a breakthrough: catheters with a ‘non-stick’ coating that prevents bacteria forming infectious, and even lethal, biofilm
Prevention is better than cure.
How an innovative new pathway is transforming lives
The birthplace of magnetic resonance imaging is transforming healthcare through innovative studies of disease processes and responses to therapies.
Professor Pip Logan’s research is helping care homes significantly reduce the number of times residents fall
Professor John Robertson’s work on an early blood test for lung cancer and new drugs for breast cancer is impacting patients across the world.
Dr Matt Loose is delivering world-leading insights into DNA using a palm-held sequencer with a power that belies its size.
Luckily for evolutionary geneticist Dr Angus Davison, some of the snails he studies are only found in the remote mountains of a Pacific paradise...
Dr Dante Kalise talks about how supercomputers are transforming the ability of policy-makers to predict complex challenges and make agile responses
By sending tiny electric pulses to the wrist, a watch-like device is giving new hope to children and people around the world who live with the agony of unwanted and uncontrollable tics
Genetic scientists play a vital role in tracking new virus variants such as Omicron.
Professor Matt Loose explains
The challenge clinging to every aspect of our lives
How hydrogen sulfide plays a key role in protecting blood vessel function
The ability to attach electron-dense labels such as gold to antibodies is opening new vistas in scientific research.
Child and adolescent mental health in a post-lockdown world: a ticking time bomb?
Can sharing personal accounts of recovery from mental health problems help others?
Casting new light on Florence Nightingale’s life in the Midlands, Paul Crawford explores her pioneering approaches to wellbeing
Health workers and their families have given researchers invaluable insights into protecting against the spread of the virus, says Professor Ana M Valdes
We can be a competitive bunch, but as rapid advances against #Covid19 show, scientists are pulling together - and using Twitter to share the results
Periodic table with a difference: marking 150 years and the only living person with an element named after him
How 15 University of Nottingham research paper authors came together to deliver an interdisciplinary study of biomaterials
Dengue fever is a leading cause of serious illness and death among children in some Asian and Latin American countries
Microbiologist Dr David Turner began the year treating Covid-19 patients before playing a key role in the delivery of the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine
‘Sodium MRI sensing’ is an advanced scanning technology with the potential to greatly improve diagnosis.
Meet Ru Jia the analytical thinker who helped reveal the physical impact of stress during the pandemic
New ways to tackle anaemia in bowel cancer sufferers.
Senior technician Denise McLean finds time to inspire young people, raise the profile of women in science and celebrate the Caribbean community.
Ground-breaking research to ensure drugs reach the sites of disease in the right dose at the right time
At the George Green Institute for Electromagnetics Research spectroscopy is being used to find new ways of detecting illness at an early stage
Envisioning a future where bulky pacemakers could be replaced with LED technology.
Dr Aislinn Bergin and Dr Joanna Lockwood talk about how the University of Nottingham are working with partners to create spaces for children and young people's voices in mental health research
How the SmartSalt project seeks to reduce salt levels in food
7.5 million UK employees have been furloughed, raising important questions about the impact on workers and their relationships with work
Every year in the UK 200,000 people receive a diagnosis of dementia.
Professor Justine Schneider is finding new ways to help them live well – through the arts.
New research suggests medieval medicine may have been more effective than previously thought – and could even help save lives today
Weang Kee Ho has no white coat and doesn’t own a stethoscope.
But she does hold a doctorate in statistics and a passionate desire to fight breast cancer
Cell Culture Technician Kerry Setchfield on using iron oxide magnetic nanoparticles to transport drugs to individual stem cells with pinpoint accuracy
Geneticist Dr Sara Goodacre explains why the residents of the University of Nottingham’s SpiderLab are so intriguing
An international history of Boots the Chemists promises to shed new light on a Nottingham company that has grown to be a global player

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/vision/society-and-communities/society-and-communities.aspx:
Our discoveries inform policy affecting every UK citizen, from informing laws that safeguard children online , to tackling misogyny , improving road safety and protecting consumers .
We help nurture young democracies, strengthen international justice and build fairer societies.
Mathematics education affects everyone, yet long-standing inequalities and disagreements about what and how to teach persist.
In this post, Chris Brignell introduces the Observatory for Mathematical Education and explains how it is using large-scale research to inform policy and improve outcomes across England’s education system.
Collaborative, community-driven research has the power to shift public conversations and inform real-world change.
With support from the University of Nottingham’s Institute for Policy and Engagement, Dr Daniel Jolley, Assistant Professor in Social Psychology, has led two complementary projects that do just that, connecting psychological research with both policy and the public.
Research at the University of Nottingham is finding ways of sustainably growing commercial elderflower in the UK
New guidelines introduced in workplaces around the world as a result of Professor Amanda Griffiths’ research are changing the working lives of women.
Making the internet a safer place by putting young people at the heart of policy
Loretta Trickett and Louise Mullany talk about how Misogyny against women and girls is everyone’s responsibility
Thousands of road deaths could be prevented by asking drivers to talk to themselves
Professor John Gathergood was instrumental in the reform of consumer credit rules – saving borrowers more than £600 million in the process
Professor Christopher Day’s work on successful school leadership has impacted thousands of school leaders, teachers and pupils around the world
Flavour chemist Ian Fisk and his colleagues have helped transform processes at Piper’s Crisps, increasing customer satisfaction and enabling the brand to expand into new markets.
Poor mental health and wellbeing at work is one of the leading causes of sickness absence, costing the global economy billions of pounds.
Guidance for employers developed by Dr Aditya Jain and Professor Stavroula Leka is having a positive impact on tackling this challenge across the world.
A study into the legacy of Haiti’s revolution two centuries ago is informing research helping to secure a more inclusive, diverse and equitable society in Britain.
The notion of using social science for good drives the narrative of our work.
When 21 Birmingham schools were investigated over fears about Islamic education it made national headlines.
Professor John Holmwood’s work explores how the fallout from the case is continuing to shape debate.
Paul Heywood’s research is shaping the agenda of the global fight against corruption.
He explains how we can loosen its grip, while policymakers reflect on his contribution
A landmark study of party politics in Europe is shaping constitutional reform in Georgia
The ‘My Marriage, My Choice’ project looks at how people with learning disabilities are being forced into marriages they might not understand.
The voices of the survivors of slavery have largely gone unheard in the creation of antislavery policies and programmes - The Survivor Alliance is redressing this
Facundo Albornoz’ research improved training of secondary school teachers in Argentina and is influencing the global debate on the best and most cost-effective approaches to improve education
Inside the Rights Lab, more than 100 University of Nottingham academics have created the world’s leading research platform for ending slavery
By assisting countries in the Western Balkans to reform their civil service and overcome cronyism and political patronage, Professor Jan-Hinrik Meyer-Sahling is helping states move towards integration with the European Union.
How Che Guevara inspired a world-leading authority
A landmark global study is informing policy and debate on life imprisonment
Professor Doreen Boyd is using satellite imagery and her expertise in remote sensing to help end modern slavery
Lockdown highlights the challenges of ensuring the rights of children are protected in the digital world.
It’s been three years since Professor Louise Mullany and colleagues started working with Nottinghamshire Police as they became the first force in the world to classify misogyny as a hate crime.
She reflects on the far-reaching impact.
It is the biggest change in the UK political landscape for more than half a century.
But what will be the true impact of Brexit on British business?
The world is witnessing its fourth major antislavery movement, and there are good reasons to hope it will be the last.
Dr Simon Roberts, a leading international expert on the free movement of people across the EU, explains why the role has never been more important.
A border dispute that rumbled on for more than 150 years was finally resolved thanks to the expertise of river scientist Colin Thorne
Innumeracy and illiteracy costs the global economy £120 billion.
Innovative digital technology is being used by children in the UK and around the world to acquire these vital skills
A groundbreaking initiative led by Dr Lisa Yon at the University of Nottingham is transforming the welfare of captive elephants worldwide through innovative digital tools, research, and global collaboration, ensuring these majestic animals are respected and cared for wherever they live.
From Defoe to Zoom, storytelling evolves – but the urge to connect will always be with us,
The ability to supply reliable business data in almost real-time limits the damage caused by uncertainty and is helping the UK plan for recovery
On 18-19 July 2019, the University of Nottingham Human Rights Law Centre brought together Liberian stakeholders and international experts in Monrovia for a historic Legislative Conference on Accountability for Past Crimes in Liberia
Professor Paul S Monks (Leicester University) shares his thoughts and reflections three months into assuming his role as Chief Scientific Adviser during an unprecedented time
One of the questions you might have asked yourself in the last few months is: when is someone or something trustworthy, and how can I tell?
Exploring the lives of marginalised families through digital networks
Introducing a blog series on the University of Nottingham’s ongoing research contribution to the Covid-19 effort
With billions spent on new contracts for PPE, the pandemic has put government procurement practice under intense scrutiny
The pandemic is accelerating irreversible shifts already under way in the UK economy
The pandemic has further exposed deep gender and class inequalities, say professors Tracey Warren and Clare Lyonette, and the government must act if we are to rebuild a fairer society
Lockdown makes the exploitation of young people by drug dealers harder to detect.
Dr Ben Brewster’s research is helping police and safeguarding agencies respond
Cities and communities after the Covid-19 pandemic
Policymakers must address the profoundly uneven impact of Covid-19 on communities, sectors and regions across the UK
Universities have already moved to online lectures.
Now’s the chance to really shake-up how we deliver education
Overcoming barriers to post-conflict justice in Liberia, which has experienced two violent civil wars between 1989 and 2003 has been a key aspect of Professor Olympia Bekou’s work.
Dr Helen McCabe's research explores the impact of Covid-19 on those vulnerable to, or already experiencing forced marriage
Building back better social and health protection in the global garment industry after Covid-19
Research has given new insights into the robustness and resilience of school trusts in supporting their students, staff and communities during the pandemic
Researchers at the University of Nottingham evaluate the risk of labour exploitation among migrant workers in the UK during the Covid-19 pandemic
Researchers and NGOs are helping the displaced and marginalised to better protect themselves against the pandemic
How Government fell short in its Covid-19 messaging for vulnerable young people – and how it can improve
Dr Thomas Legendre imagines a post-Covid future in his coming book, Spring Fever
The Knowledge Exchange Framework.
An international study to inform government response to the pandemic and understand its societal impact.
Stephen Meek looks at how the UK’s response to the pandemic highlights the complex relationship between science and politics
Nottingham has some of the UK’s highest levels of household debt, but a new partnership, chaired by Shaun French, is helping to change that
Hybrid war was recently the subject of the first ever overseas speech by a Director General of MI5.
It has long fascinated Dr Andrew Mumford and his research has influenced UK and Nato policymakers.
An international study of behaviour during the pandemic led by Dr Bahar Tunçgenç found people were far more likely to comply with the rules if their friends and family did
Discover how adult education transformed Dr Sharon Clancy's life as well as her father's, a Derbyshire miner.
The head of the Policy Profession of the UK Civil Service reflects on building mutual understanding with academics
Black Studies encourages innovative ways of thinking about research, narratives and belonging, says Dr Hannah Robbins
John Gathergood, Professor of Economics, argues that the Covid-19 crisis has most likely brought forward economic structural change not expected until the 2040s, while pushing the government finances into their worst state since the 1940s
Governments seeking legitimacy for a post-virus future must avoid delaying elections and ensure voters can safely take part
A recovering world can learn from the anti-slavery movement's innovations in supporting marginalised communities
Introducing reflections and debate from our researchers on the challenges, as well as opportunities, of a post-Covid-19 world
How technician Nicola De Vivo uses caesium to help steer away from the use of animal cells
The ‘Iron Maiden’ compound is an especially energetic form of the metal that has been the backdrop to many hours slaving over a scanning probe microscope.
Professor Simon McGrath explores the potential for education to adapt post Covid-19
Policy Impact and Public Engagement Awards
Challenges and lessons from the 2020 US Election

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/vision/sustainable-futures/sustainable-futures.aspx:
We’ve helped our partners cut CO2 emissions by 16.3m tonnes a year in recent years.
Across transport , food , energy and other industries, our technologies are securing a net-zero future .
Our discoveries will help achieve the UNs goals for sustainable development .
Explore how Siemens Energy collaborated with the University of Nottingham to enhance gas turbine sustainability using advanced heat transfer and additive manufacturing technologies.
Discover how Trelleborg Applied Technologies partnered with the University of Nottingham to develop a more sustainable approach to polyurethane manufacturing.
Tom Rodden shares insights on how Artificial Intelligence can be leveraged to accelerate progress towards net zero
Research in Tula Valley sheds light on the future of agricultural wastewater reuse
University of Nottingham fuels the future of shipping
The University of Nottingham is at the forefront of food process engineering, playing a pivotal role in advancing the field both within the UK and internationally.
Academics from University of Nottingham Malaysia have been working in partnership with WWF-Malaysia to implement a range of ecologically based flood management practices in the river Trusan.
Converting wastes into value-added products
A team of researchers have developed software to minimise CO2 emissions.
University of Nottingham's African SCENe Project Brings Clean Energy to Low-Income Communities in Nairobi
Our partnership with Chile is helping to decarbonise one of the world’s largest mining industries.
The University of Nottingham secured £12 million to establish the Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) in Resilient Chemistry (Feedstock to Function).
UNNC researchers are turning agricultural waste into advanced materials for use in healthcare
A UNNC researcher is contributing to a major international assessment of biodiversity loss and its consequences
UNNC researchers are finding new ways of reusing waste soil
Indonesia’s ambition to be southeast Asia’s electric vehicle powerhouse is a cornerstone of its net zero commitment.
The University of Nottingham, a key partner in growing the country’s EV infrastructure and skills base, is helping deliver this green transport revolution.
What can knowledge of past human-environment interactions tell us about future sustainable development?
Innovative research at UNNC is helping to tackle different types of air pollution
A UNNC research team is working to create the smart, low-carbon cities of tomorrow.
At the University of Nottingham, we address the complex challenges facing our planet and are committed to making an outstanding contribution to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
Educational resources that target children’s sense of agency are key in supporting behavioural change.
To combat climate change, we need to understand how to design and implement these into the curriculum most effectively argues Jonathan Halls.
Vice-Chancellor Professor Shearer West reflects on COP27 and says to tackle the greatest challenge of our time we must accelerate the delivery of sustainable technologies and solutions.
Researchers, including the School of Education’s Jenny Elliot, plus teachers, students and civic groups are developing an outdoor space on campus to share ideas and better connect communities with the environment.
Women are often at the forefront of climate change impacts says Dr Bethany Jackson.
Now is the time to fast track new technologies for low energy CO2 capture, says Professor Ed Lester
Dr Emily O’Donnell explains how better protecting cities like Newcastle and Nottingham from flooding can also make them greener, healthier and more pleasant places to live
As a university, we’re committed to reducing our carbon emissions and showing leadership, says Andy Nolan
Meeting this complex challenge demands world-changing innovation, determination and leadership, says Professor Chris Gerada
The early career researchers of today will be the climate leaders of tomorrow.
We need to ensure our approach to research is aligned with a dramatically changing environment, says PhD student Max Gillingham.
A call for improved and consistent communication and engagement between the government and the people over haze
Remote-controlled robots capable of carrying out specialist repairs on aircraft could mean aerospace companies no longer need to fly engineers across the world.
Asking future generations to foot the bill for our actions against climate change today is both moral and practical, argues Dr Matthew Rendall.
The energy used by many buildings is costly to the environment and to our bills – but technological research is changing this, says Ke Qu.
Lightweight materials are crucial in the construction of aircraft but can be tricky to recycle.
New processes are needed if the aviation industry is to achieve its zero carbon aims.
Increasing electrification of onboard systems will help flights of the future become cleaner, greener and safer, says Dr Sharmila Sumsurooah
An innovation platform is being used to fight back against climate change and food insecurity in local communities.
Harnessing the power of entrepreneurship offers communities most affected by climate change the opportunity to take action, says Professor Simon Mosey.
Tackling climate change is about understanding behaviour as well as developing technology, says Stephen Meek.
Dr Arabella Fraser and international research partners are investigating how non-conflict violence risks and climate change risks overlap in cities, and what this means for adaptation.
Dr Chris Ives calls for the inclusion of religious perspectives in climate policy discussions
Computer scientists play a huge role in reducing aviation’s carbon footprint.
Battery-powered planes could drastically reduce the environmental cost of air travel, but finding the right technology is key.
Advances in solar cell technologies and energy storage could harness the power of the sun in our everyday lives, says Dr James O’Shea
Legal frameworks around human rights offer a means to incentivise changes in corporate behaviour to protect the climate, says Professor Robert McCorquodale
Research at the University of Nottingham is helping create a future aviation industry that is cleaner, greener and leaner, says Dr Hitendra Hirani.
Further advances in ceramic coatings, which allow aero engines to operate under extreme temperatures, are set to significantly lower CO2 emissions from aviation.
Professor Tanvir Hussain explains.
A unique project at the Trent Basin Housing Development in Nottingham makes the future of fully-fledged community energy bubbles a promising reality, says Dr Eldar Naghiyev.
Smoky cooking fires are bad for our health as well the planet, causing ten times as many deaths as malaria
Research into the factories of the future could transform the aerospace supply chain making it cleaner and more cost-effective.
Dr Sharmila Sumsurooah is helping net zero aviation take flight by bringing together international research to transform the industry.
An unrivalled new test facility has placed Nottingham at the heart of the quest for electronically powered flight, says Professor Pat Wheeler.
Interdisciplinary research is showing how conservation agriculture can mitigate the impact of climate change in Africa, says Murray Lark.
Professor Arijit Mukherjee is showing governments how to integrate their green goals with effective trade policies
Professor Nigel Minton is engineering bacteria to use carbon dioxide as the building block for key components in industry and transport.
Hydrogen has the potential to be a much greener alternative to current aviation fuels, but finding a way to store it on planes requires complex research by materials scientists, chemists and engineers.
To understand how agriculture can adapt to a warming world, we need to look to the past and plan for the future, say Profs Matt Jones and Malcolm Bennett
Studying the structure and physiology of plants is key to preparing agriculture for a warmer world, says Dr Alexandra Burgess
The Nottingham University Business School at the University of Nottingham Malaysia is supporting the country’s businesses to take practical steps towards sustainability, says Mohan V Avvari
A successful transition to renewable energy sources means factoring in all the costs of shifting away from fossil fuels, says Dr Hafez Abdo.
A revolutionary technology developed at the University of Nottingham challenges farming’s reliance on greenhouse gas-emitting synthetic fertilisers.
A multidisciplinary buzz motivates aviation researcher Professor Carol Eastwick
If agriculture is to adapt to climate change and reduce its carbon footprint, farmers themselves have to be a core part of the solution, says Prof David Salt
Establishing the value of alternative, sustainable sources of protein in animal feed is helping the UK dairy industry reduce its carbon footprint
Professor Dame Jessica Corner on creating a world-leading cluster for net zero research and innovation
Noticing nature in Glasgow will support wise climate change action, says Dr Nicole Porter
Professor Dame Jessica Corner on what's next and the ongoing role of research in tackling the climate crisis
Our passion for innovation and the sharing of knowledge can truly change lives, says Professor Dame Jessica Corner
Dr Bethany Jackson lays out key policy recommendations for tackling the modern slavery - environmental degradation - climate change nexus.
Research at the University of Nottingham is transforming the way breeders develop new varieties of tomato – improving shelf life while maintaining excellent taste
The future of UK farming is under the spotlight more than ever.
Professor Paul Wilson of the Rural Business Research Unit explains how experts are helping to navigate a shifting landscape
Researchers are visiting 2,000 farms in Malawi, collecting soil and crop samples to helpfight a challenge to the health of millions across sub-Saharan Africa.
Professor Sir Martyn Poliakoff has led the way in discovering processes to help secure a cleaner and more sustainable future.
A chain of new health clubs is being rolled out across the UK – with the aim of keeping the nation’s sheep flocks fit and well.
‘Living deltas’ offer clues towards building a picture of environmental change over time
A community project is leading the way for the UK’s renewable energy policy
Green chemistry advances could reduce the lengthy process to create new drugs to just two steps
Extending the mileage of low-carbon electric vehicles by significantly enhancing the performance of their engines
Pete Licence underlines the importance of sustainability in a world getting back on its feet
Technician Sanjeev Taak on how his work helps to keep low temperature research going for as long as possible
Our dependence on fossil fuels must be tackled if we are to address global warming caused by climate change
Sir Martyn Poliakoff’s refreshing approach to education has inspired many in the broader scientific community and beyond
Illegal gold mining is destroying the Atrato river basin in Colombia.
Dr Nick Mount is part of a multi-national team trying to reduce the impact of this environmental disaster
Exploring the behaviour of CO2 to become a global technology leader in carbon capture and storage.
Manufacturing complex, high-performance coatings, devices, and biomaterials to tackle real world problems.
How wild plants adapt to tolerate salty soils is hugely important if we hope to continue to feed the world with a growing population.
Water is a priceless resource, but its value after it is washed and flushed away may surprise you
New biofuels with the potential to provide affordable clean energy, reduce poverty and help to tackle climate change.
Reducing the environmental impact of aircraft is vital for the future of our planet.
Research at the University is helping to bring the aerospace industry together to focus on the issue.
Pushing the boundaries of additive manufacturing
International expertise is vital to deliver the International Low Carbon City, a flagship environmental project in China

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/vision/vision-groundbreaking-health-alliance-with-kenya:
President of Kenya hails flagship model for sharing knowledge and strengthening health systems
The University of Nottingham has reaffirmed its commitment to help transform Kenya's health system.
Researchers from Nottingham and colleagues representing King’s College London met the President of Kenya, His Excellency William Ruto, and a delegation from the Kenyan Ministry of Health to sign agreements aiming to bolster the Kenya-UK Strategic Health Alliance (KUKHA), which aims to have a lasting impact on lives in the East African country.
The University of Nottingham's collaboration with Kenya will drive research and innovation in cancer care, pharmaceutical production, and diagnostic technology, including the vital rollout of MRI capabilities.
Kenya’s partnership with King's focuses on developing structured training pathways to increase the number of skilled Kenyan health professionals.
The Nottingham delegation included Professor Sube Banerjee, Pro-Vice Chancellor for Faculty of Medicine and Health Science; Associate Pro-Vice Chancellor for Global Engagement and Professor of Oncology Nigel Mongan; Professor Claire Stewart, Dean and Head of School of Medicine; the School of Medicine’s Professor Yasha Mahida, and Dr Eleanor Mitchell, Director of Global Engagement and Associate Professor of Clinical Trials in the School of Medicine.
Professor Nigel Mongan leads a team from the University of Nottingham who are part of the SAMBAI Cancer Grand Challenge consortium, a global, interdisciplinary mission aiming to tackle cancer inequities.
By studying populations in Kenya and elsewhere in Africa, as well people of African descent in the UK and the US, the team, by Dr.
Melissa Davis, Morehouse School of Medicine, will build an unprecedented understanding of differences in cancer incidence, diagnosis and treatment, as well as gather evidence of how social, environmental and genetic factors affect outcomes.
Professor Mongan said: “Breast, prostate and pancreatic cancers are more common and outcomes poorer in people of African ancestry.
Our partnership with Kenya’s Ministry of Health underlines a shared commitment to understand the causes of these cancer inequities, with the goal of benefiting patients in Kenya, Africa, the UK and across the world.
“My colleagues and I were honoured to meet President Ruto and explore new ways of working together.
This marks a further significant step in building a partnership that has the potential to improve lives through science and the sharing of knowledge.”
President Ruto said: “The $25 million (£18.2 million) SAMBAI Cancer Grand Challenge consortium is advancing our understanding of cancer genomics in Kenya, building local capacity and informing better care.
“We are proud of our partnerships with universities such as Nottingham, Oxford, and King’s College London.
These collaborations support training, mentorship, and the development of critical skills to strengthen our medical education and workforce.
This is essential to Kenya as we work to expand access to quality care across the country.”
The Kenya delegation also heard about Dr Eleanor Mitchell’s work, including a ground-breaking trial aimed at reducing hypothermia in premature babies in Kenya.
In partnership with Kenya Paediatric Research Consortium (Keprecon), the trial will take place in 28 hospitals across Kenya, involving 11,000 babies.
The trial is evaluating a care bundle, NEWS-HEAT, which includes evidence-based actions to keep babies warm and an ‘early warning score’ monitoring chart, which uses a traffic-light system to help visually identify babies who need additional care.
President Ruto added: “The Kenya-UK Health Alliance is a flagship model of what our countries can achieve when we bring together expertise, resources, and shared values.
Through the alliance, our two nations are delivering meaningful collaboration in research, clinical excellence, workforce development, and innovation, helping to strengthen our health systems and improve lives on both sides.”
Two Memoranda of Understanding strengthening the Kenya-UK Strategic Health Alliance were signed on 2 July 2025 at an event hosted by King’s College London as part of President Ruto’s state visit to the UK.
Professor Shitij Kapur, Vice-Chancellor & President of King's College London said: "Today marks a truly significant step in our enduring relationship with Kenya and a shared vision for a healthier future.
We are committed to fostering research and innovation that directly addresses real-world health challenges, and this alliance is a testament to the power of international cooperation in achieving those goals."
Nigel Mongan is Professor of Oncology, based in the University of Nottingham’s Biodiscovery Institute, and Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Global Engagement and Professor of Oncology
Dr Eleanor Mitchell is Director of Global Engagement and Associate Professor of Clinical Trials in the School of Medicine
https://x.com/statehousekenya
Culture and communication Healthy lives Society and communities Sustainable futures

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/vision/vision-research-towards-achieving-global-freshwater-sustainability:
As the UK has just experienced one of its driest springs on record, Professor Simon Gosling reflects on his research into sustainable solutions for managing the planet’s freshwater
In 2025, the UK experienced one of its driest springs on record, and in May 2025, the Environment Agency declared a state of drought for the north-west of England.
This announcement has sparked growing concerns about water shortages if dry conditions continue later in the year.
Around the same time, the UK Government announced plans to build two major reservoirs —the first since the 1990s.
This is a step in the right direction as major infrastructure projects like dams and reservoirs are some of the ways we can respond to increasing variability and extremes in water availability in the future.
In this article, I take a step back to explore the global picture: why improving water resource management is urgent, and how it can be achieved.
Ask yourself: how many people are exposed to water scarcity across the globe?
Ten million?
One hundred million?
In reality, the numbers are far higher.
While estimates vary, due to the many ways water scarcity can be defined, our research suggests that between 1.6 and 2.4 billion people are affected.
It is generally accepted that more than 2 billion people currently live under water-scarce conditions.
This is expected to rise considerably as the planet continues to warm, as some regions get drier, and as growing populations place more pressure on the limited amounts of freshwater we have available.
Sadly, this should not come as a surprise.
Society has had a marked effect on freshwater resources globally.
I recently contributed to an international study that shows how freshwater levels on land have departed from their ‘pristine’ states, much more frequently in recent decades than in pre-industrial times, when there was far less human activity.
This shift has occurred across almost half of the world’s land surface as shown in the image below.
These shifts have serious implications, not just for ecosystems and biodiversity, but for essential human uses like agriculture, industry, and domestic use.
One of the most visible examples of this impact is the dramatic shrinking of the Aral Sea since the 1960s, a large-scale change that can be seen from space.
We have now crossed a critical threshold in global freshwater availability.
This is what scientists call a "planetary boundary", that is, a safe operating space for humanity based on Earth's natural systems.
In the past, we used water within these limits.
But over the last few decades, in many regions, we have begun using more water than is sustainably available.
In practical terms, we are exceeding what nature can replenish.
All these growing pressures on the global water cycle call for an urgent expansion of existing approaches to sustainable water management, both at pace and at scale.
This is key to securing water sustainability for current and future generations.
There are many examples around the world of technologies that can help form part of the solution.
One of these is desalination, which involves taking seawater from coastal areas and converting it into freshwater by removing the salt.
Desalination can also be done inland, where the source is brackish water, such as rivers that are saltier than typical freshwater ones.
The use of desalination has also grown steadily since the 1970s .
Today, there are more than 1,500 operational plants worldwide, with nearly 50% of global desalinated water produced in the Middle East and North Africa.
Another example is inter-basin water transfer, which involves moving freshwater from one river basin to another—across local, national or even regional boundaries—using canals.
This helps meet the water needs of drier areas.
In the United States, for instance, 150 river basins already receive water through inter-basin transfers.
One of the largest examples is China’s South-North Water Transfer Project.
The first phase alone took 10 years to complete, water is transported across a 2,900-kilometre network from the Yangtze, Huai, Yellow and Hai river basins in southern China to the north, where water shortages are common due to a drier climate and a large population.
The project now supplies water to 170 million people for domestic use.
The feasibility of inter-basin transfers has also been explored in England.
One study showed how, in the future, transferring water from the north-east of England during the winter months could help meet water shortfalls in London, without negatively affecting supply in the source regions.
I am excited to be leading a team of international scientists investigating the potential for major interventions that could help secure more sustainable global water supplies in the future.
Under the framework of the Intersectoral Model Intercomparison Project (ISIMIP) , the Global Water Sector of ISIMIP is exploring how changes in the way we manage water might improve the sustainability of planetary freshwater resources.
We are developing scenarios that show how water management could evolve in response to pressures from climate change and population growth.
These scenarios include shifts in global land use, changes in irrigation demand, the construction of new dams, and the implementation of inter-basin water transfers.
We have also created scenarios for future desalination, which explore where seawater might be used as a viable source of freshwater in new regions.
The scenarios reflect plausible adaptations in different parts of the world, depending on how water availability is projected to change with the climate.
Some areas may experience little change and therefore require minimal new infrastructure, while others that are expected to become drier are more likely to need major adaptation.
In building the scenarios, we take into account practical factors that influence whether and when such adaptations might be implemented.
These include the strength of national economies, the distance of basins from the sea (especially important for inter-basin transfers), and demand for water across agriculture, industry, and domestic use.
We are running these scenarios through Global Water Models, computer models that simulate the water cycle and human water management across the world’s land surface.
These models help us understand the extent to which different adaptation strategies could support sustainable water availability in the future.
They also help us identify potential hotspots, where limited water access might worsen existing inequalities.
As you might expect, none of these potential solutions come without environmental or social drawbacks.
Trade-offs will likely be necessary to balance the benefits that engineering technologies provide against their environmental impacts.
For example, managing the waste brine left over from desalination remains a challenge , due to the ecological harm that high salt levels and chemicals can cause when released into the environment.
Large-scale dam projects can disrupt the natural functioning of rivers, fragmenting them and significantly affecting river biodiversity.
Water losses due to evaporation from canals used in inter-basin water transfers can be considerable, for instance, over 8% of the water diverted in China’s South-North Water Transfer Project is lost to evaporation.
Moreover, many large projects require resettlement of populations.
The construction of China’s Three Gorges Dam, for example, involved relocating over 1.3 million people to make way for the 175-meter-deep reservoir created by the dam.
It is crucial that the environmental and social impacts of these methods are considered right from the start, and that associated risks are carefully managed and minimised.
The global water cycle is a key part of the Earth system, so altering one part inevitably affects others.
While projects like these are built with the best intentions and for very important reasons, it is essential that efforts to secure water security do not come at the expense of the natural environment.
Taking a balanced, holistic approach that respects the interconnectedness of Earth’s systems will be fundamental to effective global water management in the future.
This article was written by Professor Simon Gosling, and it forms part of the Institute for Policy and Engagement's campaign highlighting research that showcases how the University of Nottingham is advancing the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) at different levels.
Simon Gosling is a climate change impact scientist whose research focuses on environmental sustainability, including how climate change affects the water cycle and human health.
He uses climate and hydrological models to study changes in average conditions and extremes like floods and droughts.
His work also examines the links between climate change and temperature-related health.
His work bridges science with policy and impact-focused research.
Some of his recent publications can be found here.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/vision/vision-forest-four-university-of-nottingham-faculties-collaborate-with-a-local-artist-to-scan-study-and-celebrate-the-major-oak-in-a-public-exhibition:
As part of the inspiring FOREST exhibition which opened this summer at Nottingham Castle, four faculties collaborated with a local artist to scan, study, and creatively tell the story of the iconic Major Oak in Sherwood forest.
In this article, Maria Richards, Head of Public Engagement at the Institute, shares how curiosity sparked a cross-disciplinary journey that resulted in this compelling project.
Back in spring 2024, I met with curator Tristram Aver and Service Manager Ron Inglis at Nottingham Castle.
The site had recently maintained their Arts Council National Portfolio Organisation status, and we were exploring how the university could meaningfully support its public exhibitions.
Primarily, we wanted to bring new perspectives and technology into the galleries to enhance the visitor experience
One upcoming show stood out as an opportunity: FOREST, a contemporary art show featuring specially commissioned pieces celebrating the myth and magic of the forest canopy.
New pieces would be shown alongside items from the museum’s permanent collection, including the large-scale painting of the Major Oak by Andrew MacCallum.
Caroline Locke, Derby based artist, was shortlisted as a potential contributor on this project.
Her work is inspired by significant trees and she has a series of work related to the natural frequencies they emit.
She had been attempting to capture the frequency (or vibration) of the Major Oak for some time, but the sheer girth of the trunk had her usual technics ineffective.
Tristram suggested the University of Nottingham may be able to help, due to our specialist kit and associated expertise.
Our civil engineering team identified a senior technician skilled in this area, who offered to accompany Caroline to the tree in Sherwood forest and scan it using advanced 3D technology.
Once that key element was in place, we began layering in more research stories, each from a different discipline.
From the outset, I wanted to develop a documentary to help visitors connect with Caroline and the universities work.
Through conversations with the artist, curator and independent documentary film maker Georgianna Scurfield, we storyboarded a short story, imagining the Major Oak as the main character.
Over the course of a year, the artist and various university staff visited Sherwood Forest to be filmed, sharing how their work involves nature.
Back on campus, the engineering team processed the vast dataset that was generated by the scans.
It took several months to model the tree and calculate its natural frequency.
The initial plan was for Caroline to make a bell tuned to this, but the final calculation for the trunk came out so low it would require a 125-metre-wide bell!
Instead, she took a reading of a typical Sherwood tree, which was cast by Taylor Bells and features in the display.
When we installed the exhibition in Gallery 4, I was thrilled to see contributions from four of our five university faculties.
Each offered a different perspective on the same tree, helping visitors see how diverse and unexpected research can be.
Sitting next door to Caroline’s installation, our film shows across four screens.
Technology used by the researchers featured has been drawn upon, with animations showing the root growth of trees and a clip from the 3D modelling mesh used to show how the tree branches move in the wind.
We also have a nylon 3D print of the Major Oak, that took over ten days to produce.
Beyond this, PhD candidate and composer Mo Zhou, created a sound walk around the castle grounds, free to download.
The public was involved in this project too, as we worked with the castle education team to host sessions with Pathways School.
Creative writer Matt Welton and Head of Music Elizabeth Kelly worked with secondary pupils to compose a new piece inspired by the exhibition, with lyrics written by the group.
The result is powerful and playful, thanks to their teachers embracing a fresh approach to poetry lessons.
This piece will form part of a performance taking place in the Robin Hood gallery on Saturday 4 October with professional musicians.
This project stands as a proud example of what’s possible when disciplines collaborate.
By combining 3D printing, laser scanning, and environmental storytelling, we brought cutting-edge research into a public space, making it not only accessible, but also surprising and magical.
It highlights the powerful potential of science and art working in unison to help us see the world differently.
FOREST is open at Nottingham Castle until Sunday 5 October, with entry included in the standard ticket price.
This article is part of a spotlight series developed by the Institute for Policy and Engagement, highlighting how we collaborate with researchers at the University of Nottingham to make research more relevant and accessible to the public.
Following a career in museums and heritage Maria joined the team in 2020.
She specialises in planning for public engagement, co-production methods and understanding diverse audience needs.
Maria designs and oversees our public engagement programmes, manages our public engagement funding streams and works with external partners to bring new opportunities to our researchers.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/vision/climate-change-helping-families-address-fears:
Research by Dr Jessica Jackson will inform support for parents and children facing the emotional challenges of climate change.
The past ten years (2015-2024) are the warmest ever measured, and global temperatures are expected to remain at record levels in the next five years, according to the World Meteorological Organization .
Many parents are feeling deeply worried, not just for themselves, but for their children, who face the stress and uncertainty of inheriting a planet in crisis.
A research study at the University of Nottingham is one of the first to look at how parents’ climate anxiety - a sense of fear, worry, or tension linked to climate change - is connected to their children’s thoughts and feelings about the issue and its impact on their lives.
A survey of 10,000 young people in 10 countries, published in the Lancet , found that 59% were very or extremely worried about climate change, with 84% at least moderately worried; 74% of UK adults were very or somewhat worried about climate change ( Office for National Statistics, 2022 ).
Research into climate change anxiety is a growing field, yet we know little about its impact on the well-being of parents and their role in shaping children’s responses.
Role of parents in shaping response to climate change
Our research offers new insights into how eco-friendly actions and family conversations about the environment affect mental health.
It also shows how parents play a key role in shaping not only their own emotional responses, but also how their children cope with the challenges of a changing climate.
We used a survey to explore the connection between climate anxiety and eco-friendly behaviours in parents.
A well-tested questionnaire helped measure how anxious parents felt about climate change.
The results were analysed using reliable statistical tools to understand how strong and meaningful the patterns were.
We looked at how parents’ anxiety about climate change connects to things like their eco-friendly habits, conversations with their children about climate change, and their background (such as age or income).
By learning how these factors are linked, the research helps policymakers to better understand how to support families facing the emotional challenges of climate change.
Helping parents and young people navigate these challenges
It also points to ways that schools, parents, caregivers and communities can help parents and young people navigate these challenges.
By bringing together ideas from psychology, climate science and education, we are building a more comprehensive picture of how climate change affects people emotionally.
We can better understand the mental health challenges families face and suggest practical solutions that can be used in schools, healthcare and beyond.
This has important implications for both mental health and environmental education policy and can help shape programmes that support parents’ and children’s mental wellbeing while encouraging eco-friendly habits.
It also adds to the growing field of climate change psychology, laying the groundwork for future studies on how climate change affects our mental health.
Including emotional resilience in our climate solutions
This project has shown how important it is to include mental health and emotional resilience in our climate solutions.
It’s inspiring to think that this work could help support the well-being of parents, children and teachers.
We found that parents whose children worry about or talk about climate change often feel more anxious themselves.
This shows that family conversations can shape not only how children understand climate change, but also how parents feel about it.
The way climate anxiety is shared between generations is an important topic for future research.
We are now working with local primary schools and parents to develop resources to support emotional well-being for children who are learning about the environment in schools.
Such partnerships allow for a more holistic approach, deepening the impact of our research.
Dr Jessica Jackson is an Associate Professor with the Centre for Children and Young People's Health Research, School of Health Sciences, the University of Nottingham.
Jackson, J., Rawson, R., Colman, R., Kotera, Y., Brooks-Ucheaga, M.
(2024) Parenting in a changing climate: The relationship between discussing climate change with children aged 5–11, family eco-behaviors, and climate change anxiety.
Global Health Economics and Sustainability 3172.
https://doi.org/10.36922/ghes.3172 Jackson, J., Rawson, R., Colman, R., Kotera, Y., Brooks-Ucheaga, M.
(2024) Understanding how children are coping with climate change anxiety by exploring coping strategies and supportive interventions.
International Journal of Population Studies 10(2), 71–77.
https://doi.org/10.36922/ijps.0850 Kotera, Y., Colman, R., Jackson, J., Brooks-Ucheaga, M., & Rawson, R.
(2024).
Climate change anxiety among parents of school-aged children in the UK: experience as a common predictor of cognitive-emotional and functional impairments.
International Journal of Spa and Wellness, 1–6.
https://doi.org/10.1080/24721735.2024.2409466
https://doi.org/10.36922/ghes.3172
https://doi.org/10.36922/ijps.0850
Kotera, Y., Colman, R., Jackson, J., Brooks-Ucheaga, M., & Rawson, R.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/vision/vision-reducing-educational-inequality-in-sri-lanka-through-school-clustering-reform:
Dr Venga Sarma, Assistant Professor at the University of Nottingham is leading a collaborative research project with the Centre for Poverty Analysis (CEPA) to evaluate Sri Lanka’s new school clustering reform—a policy aimed at addressing long-standing educational inequalities.
Sri Lanka’s education system, despite high literacy rates, remains deeply unequal.
A new policy initiative proposes clustering schools to share resources and improve equity.
This project, in collaboration with the Centre for Poverty Analysis (CEPA), investigates the policy’s implementation and potential impact.
Sri Lanka’s education system is often praised for its high literacy rates, yet beneath this success lies a deeply fragmented and unequal structure.
Schools are divided into national and provincial categories, with national schools—typically located in urban centres—receiving significantly more funding, better infrastructure, and more experienced teachers.
In contrast, provincial schools, especially those in rural and estate areas, are under-resourced and struggle to deliver quality education.
This disparity has led to a two-tier system where students’ educational outcomes are heavily influenced by geography and socioeconomic status.
The government’s recent education reform, outlined in the National Education Policy Framework (NEPF) 2023–2033 , seeks to address these inequalities through a school clustering model.
This model proposes grouping schools by geographic proximity into clusters of 8–12 institutions, led by one or more secondary schools.
The goal is to encourage resource sharing, improve administrative efficiency, and enhance educational quality across the board.
However, the success of this reform hinges on effective implementation, stakeholder buy-in, and a clear understanding of the policy’s real-world impact—areas that remain under-researched.
To address this gap, Dr Venga Sarma , Assistant Professor in Industrial Economics at the University of Nottingham, launched a collaborative research project with the Centre for Poverty Analysis (CEPA) , a leading Sri Lankan policy think tank.
Supported by the Policy Impact Accelerator Programme (PIAP) at the Institute for Policy and Engagement, the project aims to evaluate the implementation and early impacts of the school clustering policy, with a particular focus on equity, resource allocation and stakeholder perceptions.
The ongoing research employs a mixed-methods approach.
It includes policy document analysis, interviews with zonal education officers, and quantitative analysis of resource distribution and student performance data.
In addition, qualitative interviews with school administrators, teachers, and community members are being planned to understand local experiences, challenges, and expectations related to the reform.
What sets this project apart is its participatory and context-sensitive methodology.
Rather than imposing an external framework, the research design was co-developed with CEPA and informed by a roundtable discussion held in May 2024.
This event brought together policymakers, educators, civil society representatives, and academics to explore the practical implications of the NEPF reforms.
Their insights helped shape the research questions and research design, ensuring that the study is grounded in local realities and responsive to stakeholder concerns.
The project also recognises the importance of trust and collaboration in implementing systemic reforms.
One of the key challenges identified is resistance from national schools, which fear a dilution of resources and autonomy.
Building trust between schools with varying levels of support is essential for the success of the clustering model.
The research explores how these dynamics play out on the ground and what mechanisms, such as incentives for teacher deployment or transparent resource-sharing protocols, might help overcome them.
Although the project is still ongoing, it has already begun to influence policy dialogue in Sri Lanka.
The May 2024 roundtable served as a platform for open discussion and highlighted the urgent need for evidence-based evaluation of the clustering policy.
The research team is working closely with CEPA to maintain engagement with key stakeholders, including zonal education officers, school administrators, and policymakers at both local and national levels, and the public via media engagement .
Beyond its immediate policy relevance in Sri Lanka, this project has the potential to inform education reform in other developing countries facing similar challenges.
The clustering model, if implemented effectively, could serve as a blueprint for improving equity and efficiency in fragmented education systems.
The research team is also exploring opportunities for follow-up studies, including a deeper dive into rural case studies and alternative funding mechanisms to support the most disadvantaged schools.
By combining rigorous research with meaningful stakeholder engagement, this project exemplifies how academic work can contribute to real-world change.
It aligns with the University of Nottingham’s commitment to global impact and sustainable development, particularly in advancing SDG targets related to quality education and reduced inequalities.
Dr Venga Sarma is an Assistant Professor in Industrial Economics at the University of Nottingham.
His research focuses on public policy, education reform, and economic development, with a particular interest in South Asia.
Find out more about his research.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/vision/vision-how-the-uk-can-take-the-lead-in-sustainable-ai:
Artificial Intelligence can be leveraged to accelerate progress towards net zero.
Yet the environmental cost of AI has yet to addressed by policymakers, says Professor Tom Rodden.
There are high hopes that AI can help tackle some of the world’s biggest environmental challenges.
But there’s a negative side to the explosion of artificial intelligence and its infrastructure.
AI servers are thirsty consumers of water and use massive amounts of electricity, as well as demanding huge quantities of rare materials for computing hardware.
The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) cites a study estimating that global AI-related infrastructure may soon consume six times more water than Denmark, a country of six million.
In Ireland, an emerging AI tech hub, AI data centres could account for nearly 35% of the country’s energy use by 2026.
The UK is already Europe’s largest data centre market and the National Grid predicts that the electricity demand from UK data centres will increase sixfold by 2034, to 30% of total electricity used.
The demand for increasing amounts of computational power is unprecedented, which has huge implications for resources, infrastructure and the environment.
Yet while it is reassuring that the safety and security of AI is debated, there is less focus on monitoring its environmental impact, with calls instead to cut red tape and regulation to unleash the potential of this booming industry.
As a computer scientist, I’m excited by harnessing the power of AI to accelerate positive change.
It’s already accelerating drug discovery, patient diagnosis and treatment and optimising energy consumption.
At the University of Nottingham, our pioneering use of AI for short-term weather forecasting is making solar power more efficient, and reducing the carbon footprint of airports like Heathrow by optimising air traffic operations .
But there is a compelling case for environmental regulation for AI
I am chairing the working group behind a Royal Academy of Engineering report that calls on the UK government to take the lead in ensuring the net effect of AI on the planet is positive,  and for tech companies to accurately report how much energy and water their data centres are using.
Every data centre has a metering system to record energy and water use – but there’s no obligation to make this data available to policymakers.
So, ministers and local authorities are playing a guessing game, whether trying to assess the environmental impact of siting a data centre in your town, or the impact on grid capacity and access to renewable energy for businesses and communities in ‘AI Growth Zones’.
Data centres can be designed to use less energy, drinking water and critical materials.
Researchers at the University of Nottingham and our partners are supporting this, such as by developing ultra-low power, atomically-thin semiconductors , which will reduce the electricity demand from AI data centres and high-performance computing by more than 90%.
But rolling out such technological advances at scale requires evidence on the use of resources by data centres and of the environmental cost.
Effective environmental regulation also plays to the UK’s strengths.
Today, Britain is the third largest AI market in the world and we are acknowledged leaders in AI assurance technologies .
The UK AI assurance market has the potential to reach £6.53bn by 2035 – a growth of over £5bn from today.
Environmental monitoring will not hinder opportunities for growth as the government ramps up AI adoption across the UK .
By working with regulators, we can create models for environmental compliance that don’t burden industry or hinder innovation.
Rather, it will allow policymakers to mitigate risks and map out the implications for resources and infrastructure, and shape development to suit the UK’s needs.
Demand for AI will grow exponentially and it is vital we can measure the impact of the infrastructure it needs.
The Engineering Responsible AI report also calls for the embedding of sustainability into government’s approach to investing in AI, and for all stakeholders across the value chain to have a clear understanding of the environmental impacts of AI systems and services.
Once we have access to evidence on the environmental impact of data centres, we can plan a sustainable future for AI in the UK.
Finally, we may all need to think about our use of AI and the resources we are consuming when we use AI tools.
One estimate suggests that asking ChatGPT to generate a 100-word email consumes 0.5 litres of water.
This would include the AI summary you see by default at the top of some Google searches.
As AI continues to evolve and expand, so too must our understanding of its environmental footprint.
By embedding sustainability into AI development and demanding transparency from industry, we can ensure that this powerful technology supports, not undermines, our path to a greener future.
The choices we make now will shape not only the future of AI, but the future of the planet.
This article was written by Professor Tom Rodden, and it forms part of the Institute for Policy and Engagement’s ongoing campaign highlighting research that showcases how the University of Nottingham is advancing the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) at different levels.
Tom Rodden is Pro-Vice-Chancellor of Research and Knowledge Exchange and Professor of Computing at the University of Nottingham.
He is Chair of the working group behind Engineering Responsible AI , a report developed by the Royal Academy of Engineering in partnership with the Institution of Engineering and Technology and BCS, the Chartered Institute of IT, under the National Engineering Policy Centre.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/vision/subscribe/subscribe.aspx:
You can change your mind at any time by clicking the unsubscribe link in the footer of any email you receive from us, or by contacting us at research@nottingham.ac.uk .
The information that you provide in this form will be held in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the Data Protection Act 2018.
Your personal data will be collected and processed for the purpose of allowing you to subscribe to receive the latest communications about and editions of the Vision magazine from the University of Nottingham.
Read our full Privacy Statement .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/fabs/index.aspx:
to the home page for Finance and Infrastructure at the University of Nottingham.
Headed up by the Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Finance and Infrastructure (F&I) incorporates a number of services and sections covering the University's financial and business facilities and infrasture as well as various aspects of financial and procurement governance:
The Commercial team has overall responsibility for all aspects of commercialisation, whilst mitigating operational, commercial and compliance risk.
The Digital and Technology Services (DTS) team provides IT services and support to staff and students at the University's UK and the International Campuses
The Internal Audit Service (IAS) team provides an independent appraisal of the University's activities and provides assurance on the arrangements for risk management, control and governance
The Research and Innovation (R&I) team aims to deliver business engagement and knowledge transfer objectives as set out in the University's Strategic Plan 2020.
Supporting the development and delivery of the University's Research and Knowledge Transfer Strategy, and contributes expertise and guidance across the full spectrum of the University's research and doctoral training policies and activities.
The R&I team also offers a range of services to corporate partners, small and medium sized businesses, and support for academics who want to engage with industry.
Chief Financial Officer Room A18 Trent Building University Park Nottingham, NG7 2NR
Contact details for the each of the separate divisions that comprise the Finance and Infrastructure team can be found on our contacts page .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/fabs/research-innovation/home.aspx:
We manage the research and knowledge exchange (RKE) portfolio (approximately £900 million in active research, training and KE grants) in collaboration with the academic community, and deliver against institutional and external key performance indicators in order to ensure the university’s compliance with major funders and government agencies.
Major and strategic research development and strategic relationships with funders
The management and administration of research projects throughout the research project lifecycle
Support with the identification, protection and commercial exploitation of University Intellectual Property
Improving performance through strategic delivery planning and data/performance analytics
Engage with businesses to deliver knowledge exchange
Support, training and expertise for our research community
Access comprehensive support throughout the lifecycle of your research and innovation project

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/fabs/internalauditservice/index.aspx:
The Internal Audit Service (IAS) provides an independent appraisal of the University's activities.
Our role is to give assurance on the arrangements for risk management, value for money, control and governance and to give advice to support the achievement of good practice.
The role of IAS is fully defined in our:
If you have a query you wish to discuss with us, please contact any member of the team.
Contact details for the whole team can be found in the Meet the IAS team section of this website or via staff look up.
If you suspect a fraud or irregularity has taken place please see the University's Fraud Policy
Financial & Business Services, Room C20 King's Meadow Campus Lenton Lane Nottingham, NG7 2NR Telephone: +44 (0) 115 84 66329 email: ias@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/fabs/procurement/index.aspx:
(staff only)
Supplier Advice
Questions about procurement?

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/fabs/research-innovation/rke-strategic-management-performance.aspx:
The Business Analysis and Reporting Team provide comprehensive analyses of a broad range of data to support evidenced based decision making in relation to RKE performance and metrics.
The SDP Delivery Team are responsible for the on-going management of the Research & Knowledge Exchange Strategic Delivery Plans, together with delivery of key initiatives within these plans.
Business Analysis and Reporting provide comprehensive analyses of a broad range of data to support evidenced based decision making in relation to RKE performance and metrics.
Research & Innovation Internal Funding strategically manage and administer institutional funding schemes to support RKE activity, including the International Research Collaboration Fund (IRCF), UNICAS and the Interdisciplinary Networks Fund (IDF), together with oversight of institutional match funding processes and procedure.
They also act as a central source of knowledge and expertise to ensure that researchers can get a full picture of the funding opportunities open to them.
Provision of strategic support to enable the institution to maximise its RKE equipment and facilities infrastructure, and for equipment and infrastructure bid development.
Strategic support to ensure the institution undertakes and delivers research in ways which foster a productive and inclusive research culture and environment, that fully supports the delivery of excellent research.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/fabs/research-innovation/keiawards24/index.aspx:
Knowledge Exchange and Impact Awards 2024
Thursday 1 February 2024
The Knowledge Exchange and Impact Awards recognise and celebrate KE and impact arising from all research disciplines across the University of Nottingham.
This will be the fourth Knowledge Exchange and Impact Awards, with categories covering KE and impact (commercial, societal, policy) in each faculty , a Rising Star award and a Vice Chancellor’s award .
The awards will raise awareness of the exceptional work across the university and celebrate Knowledge Exchange projects on the pathway to success as well as those projects that are more advanced.
Showcase your success by entering, or nominate a deserving colleague.
The awards provide an exciting opportunity to celebrate your achievements with your colleagues and learn more about the fantastic impact across the university.
Winners will be announced at an awards ceremony at the East Midlands Conference Centre on Thursday 1 February 2024.
Entry deadline: Monday 16 October 2023
Nominations announced: Wednesday 1 November 2023
Awards ceremony: Thursday 1 February 2024
Visit the KE Hub for more details
Need some help?
Email the event team
Awards evening programme

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/fabs/research-innovation/research-operations.aspx:
Research Operations provides an end-to-end service from pre to post award including contracts, project delivery, governance and closure, ensuring regulatory, financial and statutory compliance for the university.
If you are an external visitor with a query please contact us at research.innovation@nottingham.ac.uk .
Staff and students can find training and support on our Research and Innovation SharePoint site (login required).
The university is committed to maintaining the highest standards of integrity, rigour and excellence in all aspects of our research.
Visitors can find out more on our Research Ethics and Integrity page .
Staff and students should visit our dedicated Research Ethics and Integrity SharePoint site (login required).
Research governance exists to safeguard participants of health and social care research by setting standards for research conduct, defining how these standards should be delivered and assessing these arrangements once in place.​​​​​​​​​​​​​​ We have an introductory guide on our SharePoint site (login required) and our Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) are maintained on our Workspace (staff login required).

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/fabs/research-innovation/ipcommercialisation/ipcommercialisation.aspx:
The IP Commercialisation Office assists with the identification, protection and commercial exploitation of university Intellectual Property (IP) as well as providing advice on IP-related matters.
Further information is provided on the following pages on legal and commercial aspects of university Intellectual Property.
The Ingenuity Centre University of Nottingham Innovation Park Triumph Road Nottingham, NG7 2TU
telephone: +44 (0) 115 823 2180 fax: +44 (0) 115 823 2181 email: research.innovation@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/fabs/research-innovation/nottingham-university-consultants.aspx:
The University established Nottingham University Consultants (NUC), a trading division of Nottingham University Industrial and Commercial Enterprises Ltd, to specifically provide management, commercial and financial support and expertise to staff wishing to carry out consultancy.
Academics providing consultancy via NUC are also covered by the University's Professional Indemnity Insurance.
Staff are encouraged to use NUC to support their consultancy work.
The development of external work directly supports The University of Nottingham's Global Strategy 2020 and specifically in research and knowledge exchange.
Knowledge exchange activities generate benefits for the economy and society, enhance the University's reputation for teaching excellence and world changing research, including through REF Impact case studies, and increases its market share of income from private, public and third sectors.
The University actively supports academics with their industrial engagement.
Many already have good connections and regularly provide expertise and advice to external organisations.
The University adopts a positive attitude to academics acting as consultants as an effective way of disseminating knowledge.
Unlike research, consultancy does not have, as its prime purpose, the generation of new knowledge.
A typical consultancy project is short-term, makes minimal use of University facilities, has a formal agreement and the contracted outputs are usually owned by the client.
In addition, the University doesn't normally have freedom to publish without client approval.
Examples of consultancy include:
For full-time academic staff, permission may be granted for up to 50 days external work a year as long as there is no adverse impact on their academic duties.
External work which is deemed sufficiently central to the duties of academic staff carries 'automatic permissions', though in the case of activities such as journal editing or some appointments to external bodies, Head of School approval is required.
In all other cases permission to do external work, be this consultancy or working as a director, must be obtained from the Head of School and the Director of Business Engagement and Innovation Services.
The approval process is designed to protect the interests of the University and its academics and to ensure there are no potential conflicts or that staff do not overcommit to external work.
For full details, see the External Work Policy .
A short online form needs to be completed in order to request approval for external work.
Risk Assessment for BP - Professor Colin Thorne
Advising as an Expert Witness - Dr Andrew Wilcock
Pharmaceutical consultancy - Dr Michael Stocks
Car manufacturer consultancy - Dr Gary Burnett
Medical consultancy with Johnson & Johnson - Professor Roger Bayston
Nottingham University Consultants, Ingenuity Centre,
University of Nottingham Innovation Park
Triumph Road
Nottingham NG7 2TU
telephone: 0115 95 14613
email: nuc@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/fabs/a-z.aspx:
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z £69.5m funding is testament to the quality of our research and knowledge exchange 2018/19 - Tuition Fees for Sponsored Students About Intellectual Property (IP) About the awards About us AI powered cost prediction tool transforms data analytics capabilities Anti-bribery Policy Awards categories and criteria A-Z Bank details requests for businesses and organisations Banking services - frequently asked questions Business Engagement CIPS Sustainability Index (SI) Conditions of Contract Contacts Contract Register Controls and governance Course deposits – Frequently Asked Questions Debt Services Driving innovation: Expanding software solutions for electrified powertrain systems Equipment Equipment inventory Expenses - frequently asked questions External Work Application Form Facilities and Equipment Management committee Farm-grown spirits, crafted with nature, boosted by science Finance and Infrasructure Staff Listing Finance and Infrastructure Finance and Infrastructure Directorate Team Finance department Finance General Contacts Financial Control Financial Control - Accountancy Trainees Financial Control - contact list Financial Control - Debt Services Financial Control - e-Payment services Financial Control - Income Services Financial Control - Payment Services Financial Control - Payroll Services Financial Control - Pension and Benefit Services Financial Control - Tax Services Financial Control - Travel and Expense Services Financial Management Financial Management - Arts, Social Sciences, Sciences and Engineering Financial Management - contact list Financial management - corporate finance Financial Management - Facilities and Professional Services Financial Management - Medical and Health Sciences Financial Regulations Financial statements Forms Fraud Freedom of Information Disclosures Frequently asked questions Frequently asked questions Funding for equipment Getting in Shape Global reviews and financial statements Group Finance Projects team HGV Access Improving highway maintenance with innovative software solutions Insurance Internal Audit Service Introducing a new finance, procurement and HR system IP Commercialisation KEI awards 2024 KEI Awards 2024 programme KEI awards 2024 results Key University Policies Knowledge Exchange and Impact Awards 2014 Knowledge Exchange and Impact Awards 2024 Knowledge exchange funding Meet the Internal Audit Service Team Modern Slavery Act 2015 (MSA) Multi-million funding injection for University of Nottingham facility brings net zero one step closer to reality News Nominations for the Faculty of Arts Nominations for the Faculty of Engineering Nominations for the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences Nominations for the Faculty of Science Nominations for the Faculty of Social Sciences Nottingham University Consultants (NUC) Online Store Patents Paying a University commercial invoice Paying via NottinghamHub Payroll - pay dates and deadlines Payroll and pensions - useful links and contacts Payroll Services Pensions - Contributory Pension and Assurance scheme (CPAS) Procurement department Procurement Sustainability Strategy Professor Sarah Sharples appointed Deputy Chair for REF2029 sub-panel Providing comprehensive support throughout the research and innovation lifecycle.
Publications Reasons to enter Refund policy Request our bank details Research Operations Rising Star award RKE Development RKE Strategic Management & Performance Running order and timings SciQuest Services Shaping the future of gas turbines with sustainable heat transfer solutions Shortlist summary Spin-outs Student Payment Portal Student visa CAS deposits – Frequently Asked Questions Supplier payments Supplier Zone Sustainability Tax and VAT - Frequently Asked Questions Tax Services Tenders Travel and Expense Services Treasury Tuition fee deposits – Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Fees UNICAS - Supporting cross-disciplinary research University of Nottingham finances explained University of Nottingham funding boost to enhance training for the next generation of social scientists University of Nottingham partnership set to transform AI-assisted consumer insights for social good University of Nottingham partnership sparks innovation in clean energy University of Nottingham research partnership results in groundbreaking new industry tech University of Nottingham spin-out celebrated in national accelerator programme's 10th anniversary report University of Nottingham strengthens rankings in Knowledge Exchange Framework University scoops double win at Innovate UK Knowledge Transfer Partnerships Awards UoN Knowledge Exchange Day 2025 hailed a success WEEE Directive Welcome to the archived web page for the Knowledge Exchange and Impact Awards 2018

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/business-network/business-network.aspx:
Join more than 1,600 connections in our business network, from a range of companies and industries, as well as representatives from business support organisations.
Our business engagement team will help you to explore how your business could partner with our university.
Attend our regular webinars and events to discuss topical business issues.
You will usually hear the latest research perspective from our academic community as well as the practical application from local business leaders.
Have a topic you'd like to us to cover?
Suggest a theme for a future event .
Your opportunity to promote your business to the network, share your news, ask for feedback or recruit partners for a collaborative project.
Get in touch to book your elevator pitch slot .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/policy-and-engagement/about-us/about-us.aspx:
The Institute provides expertise to support both policy impact and public engagement.
Members of our team have extensive experience of working with and in a variety of organisations, particularly local organisations, government and the charity sector.
As well as focusing on policy and public engagement as separate areas, our team also often work collaboratively, especially through our Institute Academy Programme and on projects within the civic space that bring these two audiences together.
Collectively, our team ensures that University of Nottingham's world-leading research reaches the right audience.
The University of Nottingham’s world-class research offers knowledge of relevance to the full range of policy issues facing decision makers across the globe.
The Institute works to ensure this vital insight is heard where it can make a difference.
The policy impact team works with academics to help them understand the needs and perspectives of policy audiences at local, regional, national and international levels, and to develop the skills and knowledge needed to communicate with them effectively.
We support academics to build effective partnerships in pursuit of policy change and to create long term strategies for effective policy engagement.
For policy makers and policy-focused organisations, we offer a way to connect with world-leading researchers across the University’s five faculties.
The commission provides guidance as to how the Government can transition to a zero carbon society and ensure that the benefits and costs are shared equally.
Policy briefs are short, accessible documents showing the value and potential impact of a wide range of research in an understandable way.
Our CAPE work explores how to support effective and sustained engagement between academics and policy professionals.
This online resource showcases the value of Nottingham's research for net zero, climate change and sustainability policies
Public engagement is about sharing and involving others in our research.
Our public engagement supports academics who want to inspire people of all ages, gain insights and share tools to help make sense of a complex and changing world.
Public engagement activity can range from outreach activities in schools, to patient involvement, citizen science and collaborative research projects.
The team help University of Nottingham academics and their partners to formulate high-quality public engagement initiatives, through training, events, networks and one-to-one support.
Watch our public engagement video to discover some of the fantastic recent projects we have delivered or supported.
This prestigious national award recognises University of Nottingham's commitment to public engagement.
Mark discusses his project developed throughout the Institute Academy Programmes 2023/24 - Participatory Photography with Make It Easy Lab
Maria Richards explores the importance of community partnerships to deliver meaningful change through research projects that foreground public engagement.
Find out how we take Nottingham's world-leading research out into the wider community.
Want to collaborate with our team?

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/policy-and-engagement/about-us/our-team.aspx:
The Institute focuses upon policy impact and public engagement.
Together, we work to ensure that the University of Nottingham's world-leading research reaches the right audience.
Find out more about the members of our team via the short profiles below.
Not sure who to contact?
Email our team inbox instead
Communications and Content Officer
Iyanuoluwa brings in over 5 years of experience in strategic and advocacy communications across the public and third sectors.
She works closely with the team to amplify the impact of our projects and programs internally and externally.
She also collaborates with the team to create and deliver impactful campaigns to drive and shape our engagement and public discourse across our online platforms.
Email Iyanu
Public Engagement Project Manager
Sally brings over two decades of management experience within a variety of tenant and community involvement, marketing and heritage roles primarily within the public sector.
She joined the team in June 2023 to support in the delivery of an ambitious programme of public engagement events and activities, reaching diverse audiences and responding to the needs of communities.
Email Sally
Head of Public Engagement
Email Maria
Programme & Project Manager (Policy)
Tiffany joined the team in 2023 as Programme and Project Manager (Policy).
She previously spent two years working for a local domestic abuse charity and prior to that was part of the Knowledge Exchange team at Nottingham Trent University.
Tiffany manages aspects of the training programmes including PIPP and PIAP, as well as supporting and advising academic researchers with engaging policy makers and creating policy impact particularly in the civic sphere.
Email Tiffany

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/policy-and-engagement/about-us/awards.aspx:
Our annual awards recognise and celebrate the outstanding work by University of Nottingham researchers across all our campuses in achieving policy impact and engaging the public with current research.
These awards are highly competitive and all of our nominees demonstrate outstanding contributions in their fields.
You can view all of our winners and shortlisted nominees from the most recently presented awards via the links below, as well as those from previous years.
Best policy impact initiative
Best public engagement initiative
Rising star award – policy impact
Rising star award – public engagement
Best schools initiative
Institute award

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/policy-and-engagement/Contact.aspx:
Whether you work in policy and want to access relevant expertise from the University of Nottingham, or you are an organisation looking to partner with us on engaging public audiences with research findings, the Institute is here to help.
With five faculties covering arts, social sciences, science, medicine and health sciences and engineering, and world-leading researchers across all three of our campuses in the UK, China and Malaysia, the University is a vast resource that we can help you access.
University of Nottingham researchers offer extensive expertise across a wide range of subject matters.
The Institute for Policy and Engagement was established to help connect our researchers to organisations and people, in government and in other sectors, who can benefit from this expertise to inform their policy work.
Nottingham academics have supported evidence-informed policy making at all levels of government, in all areas of the globe, and in all areas of government activity.
We are always keen to talk to potential partners in the policy space, whether in the UK or elsewhere.
If you would like to discuss how we can work with you, please email the Institute .
Institute for Policy and Engagement Highfield House University of Nottingham University Park Nottingham NG7 2RD
Email: theinstitute@nottingham.ac.uk
Discover more about the training and support we offer via our SharePoint site (internal only)
Sign up to our external newsletter

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/policy-and-engagement/projects/overview.aspx:
The Institute runs a number of projects, both large and small, to support public engagement and policy impact at the University of Nottingham.
Find out more about some of our key current projects via the links below.
You can also head to our archive below to find out more about previous projects we've undertaken.
This report brought academics and policymakers together to demonstrate how the UK can deliver a just transition to net zero.
The prestigious Silver Engage Watermark Award recognises University of Nottingham's commitment to public engagement.
This online resource showcases the value of the University of Nottingham's social science research for net zero, climate change and sustainability policies
Tailored training opportunities enabling university staff to develop their policy or public engagement skills.
Use the search function below to filter our list of projects by title, project team, summary, or research theme.
Aromas that Nurture
In this project Roda Madziva explores the use of sensory experiences to help connect refugee families and local communities.
Bright Sparks family talks
A series of interactive talks and demonstrations by three world-leading academics, intended to share their research and passions with family audience in an engaging, family-friednly way.
This CAPE-funded project developed 200 concpet cards as a tool to help people design and practice policy impact campaigns.
They are flexible, collaborative and approachable, intended to help researchers with minimal policy experience to design a policy campaign, either individually or collaboratively in small groups.
This collaborative project, with Nonsuch and City as Lab, aims to give a voice to young people across the city.
Civic; Education; Culture; Engagement

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/policy-and-engagement/projects/policy-commission.aspx:
In 2024, the University of Nottingham launched a major policy commission to explore how the UK can deliver a just transition to net zero.
A just transition is one that is fair, inclusive, and ensures that the benefits of the green economy are shared equitably across society.
This University-led initiative was chaired by Lord Watson of Wyre Forest, former Deputy Leader of the Labour Party and Honorary Professor at the University, and deputy chair Professor Lucelia Rodrigues, Chair of Sustainable and Resilient Cities.
The commission was supported by the University’s Institute for Policy and Engagement and built on Nottingham’s global leadership in net zero research and innovation.
From green aviation and transport to low-energy buildings, through initiatives such as our Zero Carbon Cluster , and hydrogen energy through the HyDEX programme, the University continues to deliver solutions that influence both policy and industry.
Achieving a net zero economy will take extraordinary technological innovation but technology alone is not enough.
People – how we live, work, travel and consume – will also need to change dramatically .
In any change as far-reaching as this, it’s inevitable that some people, some places and some communities face greater challenges and risks than others.
But without wide support, achieving the transition to Net Zero will be even more difficult.
Governments need to be aware of where there is a risk of unjust sharing of the benefits and risks of the transition – and be ready to support those who stand to lose most.This is a complex question, requiring input from a wide range of academic disciplines as well as from those delivering change on the ground.
Our goal with our Policy Commission is to help Government work through this wide range of invaluable expertise sources to identify actionable policy proposals.
As the climate crisis intensifies and public debate around the costs, trade-offs, and pace of the net zero transition continues to grow, the need for urgent yet equitable action has never been more critical.
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has made it clear: delaying action will only worsen the consequences, even if net zero targets are ultimately met.
While action is essential, it cannot come at the expense of fairness.
Recent concerns from trade unions, policymakers, and communities point to a growing disconnect between the goals of decarbonisation and the lived experiences of those affected.
Jobs, affordability, and local empowerment are all on the line — and must be central to how the UK approaches its transition.
The commission set out to address this challenge.
Over the course of 2024, the Commission brought together expert witnesses from academia, business, local government, trade unions, and civil society to explore three key questions:
Who benefits from the transition to net zero?
What role should communities play?
And how can we ensure the transition supports, rather than sidelines, those most at risk?
In November 2024, the Commission’s work culminated in a final report titled Delivering a Just Energy Transition , which was launched in Parliament.
The report outlines six clear and practical recommendations for government to help maintain and grow public support for the transition to net zero:
Continue to form a positive narrative around decarbonisation to garner public support.
Set up Transition Taskforces to give those impacted by the energy transition a real say in shaping policy.
Utilise the Industrial Strategy to deliver a just transition, learning from global best practice to maximise jobs, investment, and opportunity.
Ensure an enhanced focus on the local benefits of hosting new energy infrastructure.
Introduce wider planning reforms that facilitate community engagement and long-term net zero goals.
Support skills and workforce transformation, equipping people and places for the green economy.
The commission’s message is simple but powerful: climate action must be fast — but it must also be fair.
The University of Nottingham is proud to have led this work and remains committed to shaping the policies and practices needed for a sustainable, inclusive future.
Read the full report
For more information, get in touch , follow us on social media or check out our blog where we post regular updates about what we do, including our next steps as we continue to support the vital work outlined in this commission.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/policy-and-engagement/projects/forest-frequency.aspx:
In May 2025 Nottingham Castle Museum & Art Gallery launched their latest exhibition, FOREST .
This evocative show brings together a powerful new collection of contemporary artworks inspired by the mystery, beauty, and symbolism of trees and woodland life.
Discover how the University of Nottingham and Nottingham Castle collaborated to bring this exciting new contemporary art exhibition to Nottingham in May 2025, exploring trees, forests, and the legacy of the Major Oak.
The exhibition features six newly commissioned works made especially for Nottingham Castle, alongside artworks on loan to the city for the first time.
These sit alongside rarely seen prints, drawings, and photographs from Nottingham’s own collection, including the iconic 1882 painting of the Major Oak by Nottingham-born artist Andrew MacCallum.
Featured artists include Arianne Churchman, Tim Fowler, Jelly Green, Jasper Goodall, Yelena Popova, and many more, with strong representation from artists based in Nottingham and the wider region.
Through sculpture, painting, sound, and film, FOREST explores personal and cultural connections to trees and forests.
Some artists will draw inspiration from lived experience of Sherwood Forest and the Major Oak, while others will reflect on the forest as a place of myth, memory, and transformation, touching on themes of grief, folklore, and climate change.
As part of the FOREST exhibition, University of Nottingham's Institute for Policy and Engagement co-ordinated a unique collaboration between artist Caroline Locke and researchers from across the university.
The project brought together expertise from the engineering, biosciences, geography and music, highlighting the power of interdisciplinary research to support creative practice.
The team visited the Major Oak across all four seasons, capturing its changing presence through sound, film and data.
This process forms the basis of a new four-screen video installation by artist and filmmaker Georgianna Scurfield, titled Forest and Frequency , which is a key feature of the FOREST exhibition.
Displayed in the Square Gallery, the work brings together artistic and academic perspectives to offer a powerful, multi-sensory experience rooted in the life of this legendary tree.
Forest and Frequency is a series of four films by documentary maker Georgianna Scurfield that follow the Major Oak, artist Caroline Locke, and researchers from the University of Nottingham over the year in the lead-up to this exhibition.
Divided into four chapters to reflect the changing seasons, the film centres the Major Oak.
It begins in summer 2024 as Locke works with University of Nottingham engineers to record the tree's natural frequency usingstate-of-the-art technology to scan and record specific data points.
Subsequent films show the independent journeys of that data, both in the studio to inform Locke’s artistic work and on campus to create a 3D model from which researchers can calculate the vibration of the tree as it sways in the wind.
On return visits to Sherwood Forest, we are also introduced to researchers from different academic disciplines who share their insights and relationships with woodland ecosystems.
Through conversations held in the forest, creative thinking and knowledge exchange, we see art, science and historical research intertwined in response to the presence of a single, ancient tree.
At this event, attendees will have the opportunity to see the film in its entirety for the first time and also ask questions of the artists, academics and professional staff that created the project to bring the mysteries of Sherwood Forest to life.
Although the full film can only be viewed in the Nottingham Castle exhibition or at specialist screenings , you can get a preview via the trailer below:
Members of the university's music department have been explring the relationship between trees, music and memory.
Mo Zhou , a PhD student in the Department of Music, has also created a sound walk that will transport you back 1,000 years into the heart of Sherwood Forest.
This can be downloaded free of charge by visitors as they roam the castle grounds.
Elizabeth Kelly , Associate Professor in Music Composition, has been working with groups of school children and musicians to create musical compositions that respond to the world around us.
These will be performed during the closing cermony of the exhibition.
Using laser scanning technology, university engineers created a 3D model of the Major Oak in Sherwood Forest.
The team included Sean Ince, Dr John Owen, and Dr Ali Gamra.
and the data they proided informed Caroline Locke’s new artwork exploring the vibrations and structure of this iconic tree.
The digital model also enabled them to apply the techniques they use to test high-rise buildings to the Major Oak, to understand how its structure would respond to high wind events and make suggestions for its conservation and management.
They demonstrated how engineering could be used to manage and mitigate the risks of large trees in public spaces and monitor tree health.
Charles Watkins is a Professor of Rural Geography in our Faculty of Social Sciences, who specialises in the cultural and environmental geography of trees.
As part of the project he met with artist Caroline Locke to explain their histories and cultural significance.
He also met with members of the public at the Major Oak itself to hear their own stories and experiences of the famous tree.
Charles' knowledge informed the work of the exhibition curators too, as he spoke to them about other trees and forests and art in the exhibition.
Visitors can read his book in the gallery and also hear some of his interpretations of the various works displayed throughout the gallery.
Despite the seemingly bare nature of winter, a lot is happening out of sight and that is exactly what researchers from our School of Biosciences.
Amanda Rasmussen , Associate Professor plant ecophysiology, works on the propagation of trees, aiming to understand and improve current practice.
Amanda teamed up with Craig Sturrock , Principal Research Fellow in X-ray Computed Tomography, to use the cutting-edge technology at the Hounsfield Facility to record the growth of roots on young saplings.
These videos are on display in the gallery at Nottingham Castle and visitors can see how the roots form and develop, growth that is usually hidden beneath the surface made visible by modern technology.
More examples of this technique and how its used can be seen as part of the Hidden Half Project online.
There was a public launch and preview on Friday 23 May, 6–8pm, with artists and project partners in attendance.
The main exhibition opened to the public on Saturday 24 May and runs until Sunday 2 November 2025.
It is free for all annual pass holders to the Castle, otherwise standard entry fees apply.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/policy-and-engagement/Net-Zero/Home.aspx:
This new online research hub aims to demonstrate how social science research at the University of Nottingham is helping to shape a more sustainable future.
It provides an online resource dedicated to showcasing the value of the University of Nottingham's social science research for net zero, climate change and sustainability policies, and is funded by the ESRC IAA.
The challenge of achieving net zero is as much a social challenge as a technical one .
Innovations in energy supply or food production will only have an impact if they are adopted by Government, businesses and individuals.
This requires understanding change in societies, behaviour, culture, economics, politics, international relations, supply chains and much more.
This is where the insights offered by the social sciences play a crucial role.
This type of research enables us to understand what people do and why, and how best to facilitate the necessary changes.
This virtual hub has been created to enable policy and public audiences to engage with the social-science-based insights on net zero offered by the University in an open and accessible format.
It creates a space in which the vital importance of this research is recognised and showcased, providing an ongoing home for impact in this area.
This hub hosts a wide range of content from across the Faculty of Social Sciences at Nottingham.
Whether you are looking to find an expert in a particular topic or field of research, search our collection of short articles and policy papers on varied issues, or explore the specific research approaches and topics covered by our research, you can access the relevant section via the links below.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/policyengagementblog/nccpe-silver-engage-watermark:
This prestigious national award awarded by the National Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement (NCCPE) recognises University of Nottingham's commitment to public engagement.
Published 17 Jan 2024
On 6 December 2023, we were honoured with the prestigious Silver Engage Watermark by the National Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement (NCCPE).
This award not only validates our dedication to involving the public in our work but also reinforces the importance we place on driving impact through knowledge sharing, teaching, and research.
Our work at the Institute revolves around connecting Nottingham's world-leading researchers with the public and policymakers to share insights and solve problems.
We work with staff from across the university to ensure our outstanding research reaches relevant decision makers and address the needs of different communities at the local, national and international levels.
During the assessment process all areas of public engagement at the university were explored; including staff and student volunteering, our work with school pupils, our civic engagement and how we listen and work with those with lived experience to strengthen research outputs.
This award is symbolic of our university's core values.
It proudly reflects our ongoing commitment to engaging with the public and ensuring community collaboration is woven into the fabric of who we are and what we do.
Our Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Professor Jane Norman, shares in this pride, stating, "this strengthens the value of our publicly funded research by ensuring it is informed by and addresses real-world experience, and offers students an opportunity to make a difference."
Over the past year, we have connected with over 22,000 individuals through events like the Nottingham Festival of Science and Curiosity, Science in the Park, Pint of Science, and Being Human.
These experiences, along with our public arts centre, Lakeside Arts, and free-to-access public lectures, have been attended by over 110,000 people.
We teamed up with Nottingham City Council to introduce interactive talking street furniture such as lamp posts, benches and even bins to gather views on what climate change means to local people, and how sharing how they can get involved in Nottingham’s goal to become the UK’s first carbon neutral city.
As part of the regeneration of Nottingham’s Broadmarsh – currently one of the largest city centre redevelopment projects in Europe – the university’s archaeologists and historians are partners in the City of Caves project, which aims to make Nottingham’s underground caves network a signature feature of the new development, boosting the local economy and celebrating the area’s heritage.
Heart and stem cell researchers from the university’s Biodiscovery Institute have taken their research into the community , working with artists, schools and primary schools to connect science, health, art and learning in innovative ways.
Engagement between researchers at the School of Medicine and the public inform clinical trials of new treatments, such as the National Institute for Health Research-funded Rapid Eczema Trials .
The Nottingham Support Group for Carers of Children with Eczema helps design the trials by sharing the experience of children living with the condition.
Our dedication to community engagement and impact has also been recognised by this award.
Paul Manners, co-director of the NCCPE, applauded our progress and the commitment of our staff, acknowledging our commitment to public involvement across numerous disciplines.
Local councils and organisations are key partners in this process.
We were delighted that Councillor David Mellen, Leader of Nottingham City Council, took time to celebrate the award and be part of our acceptance video.
Our role as an anchor institution in the city and region is incredibly important to us and only through mutually beneficial partnerships can we achieve our goals for local prosperity.
The Silver Engage Watermark not only recognises our achievements but also emphasises the value of sharing expertise for the greater good.
When Stephen Meek, Director of the Institute for Policy and Engagement, spoke at our celebration event, he made it clear that the Silver Engage Watermark is both recognition and an opportunity.
It serves as a focal point for our efforts and a guide for future plans as we continue to expand upon our achievements.
Our new Castle Meadow Campus, for example, provides a hub for innovation, and collaboration fostering entrepreneurship and economic progress.
Initiatives like City as Lab connect researchers, communities, and partners to tackle real-world challenges.
Receiving the Silver Engage Watermark isn't just an achievement for us; it's a reflection of our commitment to creating a positive societal impact.
As we continue to lead in public engagement, this recognition will undoubtedly inspire more innovative and impactful contributions in the years to come.
Join us in celebrating this remarkable achievement and stay tuned for more updates on our journey in public engagement.
Follow us on Facebook , X (Twitter) and Instagram to be a part of our ongoing initiatives and collaborations, contributing to building stronger communities and inspiring positive change.
Article written by Maria Richards, Head of Public Engagement, and Iyanuoluwa Fatoba, Comms and Content Officer.
Please contact the Institute for Policy and Engagement with any further queries.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/policy-and-engagement/content/blog.aspx:
The Institute's mission is to support the exchange of knowledge and ideas to enrich policy making, inspire people, support communities, transform lives and shape the future.
Welcome to our blog, where we share news about upcoming events, activities and projects that we've been collaborating on with world-leading researchers from across the University of Nottingham!
Please add a keyword or select category.
We invited NCCPE to lead on a workshop on building successful partnerships and strengthen communication in local communities
Last week, the Institute attended the annual University Policy Engagement Network (UPEN) conference to introduce our new Policy Quest board game and demonstrate how it can be used to create engaging, creative and effective policy impact campaigns.
In this guest blog, Roda Madziva, Associate Professor of Sociology and Social Policy at the University of Nottingham, explores the powerful role of food in building community and fostering belonging, especially for people who have experienced displacement.
As their time with the Institute wraps up, our Public Engagement Ambassadors have taken the time to reflect on what they have learned, how they have grown, and how these lessons will inform their research.
On Thursday 15th May, more than 40 people from across Nottingham gathered at an invite-only Sustainable Growth Assembly, an event centred on bold ideas, active listening and shared purpose.
As CUAB prepares to pilot at St Ann’s Allotments, one of the UK’s oldest and most iconic growing communities, the project is heading to Green Hustle Festival to share its story and invite more people into the conversation.
Discover how University of Nottingham is working with regional stakeholders to  translate the commission’s recommendations into practical action that aligns with existing regional plans and objectives for achieving net zero.
This May, the Institute for Policy and Engagement will proudly spotlight the University of Nottingham's commitment to advancing the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through research, innovation, partnerships and engagement.
The Institute is proud to announce the winners of this year's Policy Impact and Public Engagement Awards
In this article, I share my journey as a Public Engagement Ambassador; from starting as a volunteer to leading a team at a major outreach event.
This wrap-up blog post brings together the stories from our #WomenOfUoN campaign.
Throughout March we showcased the vital role women play in research, policy, and public engagement and reinforce the impact of their work.
This year’s festival, held at the stunning Wollaton Hall, saw 4,000 eager attendees explore a vast range of hands-on activities.
Dr.
Benjamin Newsome-Chandler, Assistant Professor at the University of Notttingham, highlights the latest research on glaciers and climate to explore the significance of the very first World Day for Glaciers.
Dr Alison Tidy explains the critical role of trees for our ecosystems in this guest blog.
Drawing upon insights from her work as a research fellow in plant and crop science at the University of Nottingham, Alison explores how trees contribute to food production and the pressing need for reforestation in the UK.
From influencing government policies to engaging directly with schools and communities, we take immense pride in witnessing University of Nottingham academics drive meaningful change on local, national, and global scales.
2025 marks the 10th anniversary to the Festival of Science and Curiosity.
Take a look at what we captured of the two week festival.
Introducing a series of blogs where our researchers reflect on the challenges of a post-Covid-19 world
This blog series showcases the outcomes from the projects selected for funding
Issues of migration and starting a new life in the UK are explored in these blogs

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/policy-and-engagement/content/policy-briefs.aspx:
The Institute produces policy briefings to showcase policy-relevant research from across the University.
These briefings aim to provide an evidence base for policy makers, building on the University's research and expertise.
Dr Jo-Anna Russon and Professor Volker Wedekind Lessons from the Department of Higher Education and Training five-year research programme on techincal and vocational education and training (TVET).
Use the search function below to filter our list of recent policy briefs by title, author, summary, or research theme.
Dr Jo-Anna Russon, Senior Research Fellow, International development, TVET and the private sector, School of Education
Professor Volker Wedekind, Head of the School of Education, Vocational education policy, theorising TVET systems
Dr Wafaa Ahmed, Nottingham University Business School, University of Nottingham et al
Professor Joanna McIntyre, Faculty of Social Sciences, University of Nottingham
Dr Larissa Sandy, Faculty of Social Sciences, University of Nottingham
Dr Matthew Ashfold, Faculty of Science, University of Nottingham Malaysia
Dr Chris Ives, Faculty of Social Sciences et al
Dr Bethany Jackson, Rights Lab Professor Zoe Trodd, Rights Lab
Dr Katharine Jenkins, School of Humanities, Faculty of Arts Dr Ruth Pearce, University of Leeds
Dr Ansgar Koene, Faculty of Science Dr Philip Inglesant, University of Oxford Dr Jun Zhao, University of Oxford
Professor Louise Mullany, School of English, Faculty of Arts Dr Lucy Jones, School of English, Faculty of Arts Dr Victoria Howard, Faculty of Arts
Professor Judy Muthuri, Nottingham University Business School
Mr Arthur Ndegwa, Kenya Project Lead, Taita Taveta University
Dr Tom Stanton, School of Geography, Faculty of Social Sciences Dr Matthew Johnson, School of Geography, Faculty of Social Sciences Dr Rachel Louise Gomes, Faculty of Engineering
Dr Edmund Stewart, School of Humanities, Faculty of Arts

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/policy-and-engagement/content/consultations.aspx:
University of Nottingham academics regularly contribute their expertise to parliamentary inquiries and government consultations across a wide range of topics.
Some examples of these contributions can be read below.
If you are a Nottingham academic who has contributed to a consultation or enquiry and would like your work to be featured here, please contact us .
Evidence submitted by the Propulsion Futures Beacon to the Science and Technology Committee, 4 February 2021
Contribution by the University of Nottingham to the Women and Equalities Committee
Evidence submitted by the University of Nottingham to the Women and Equalities Committee, 17 November 2021
Contribution from the University of Nottingham to the Justice Committee

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/policy-and-engagement/content/toolkits.aspx:
The Institute not only ensures that Nottingham's research reaches the right audience, by supporting researchers with public and policy impact.
We also reflect upon this work and produce toolkits and documents, exploring best practice and learning outcomes.
Use the search function below to filter our list of toolkits by title, author, summary, or research theme.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/policy-and-engagement/events/festivals.aspx:
We facilitate the university's engagement with a wide range of local and national festivals, covering both Arts and Science.
Nottingham Researchers regularly host events as part of the Festival of Science and Curiosity, Pint of Science, SoapBox Science, Being Human and the Festival of Social Science.
We also host our own large events aimed at the public, including Science in the Park, which is a collaborative event with Nottingham Trent University.
Find out more about some of our regular festivals below or check out the feed for upcoming events!
Being Human is a national festival that highlights the ways in which the humanities can inspire and enrich our everyday lives and help to understand ourselves, our relationship with others, and the challenges we face in a changing world.
Celebrating Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths with interactive, free and fun events across Nottinghamshire.
A festival is about inviting the people of Nottinghamshire to share what they know and what they would like to know.
Organised by the Department of History, the History Festival is a collaborative event bringing together staff, students and the wider community — a series of history themed events including talks from specialists, family-friendly activities, and much more.
Scientists from the University of Nottingham and Nottingham Trent University, and a variety of local organisations, join forces to provide a range of exciting family friendly activities at Wollaton Park.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/policy-and-engagement/events/spl.aspx:
This series of talks is open to all and free to attend.
Lectures are held once a month, on the third Thursday of each month.
We welcome speakers in all areas of STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) from across the University of Nottingham, and we hope you can join us to hear about some of the fascinating research that is being undertaken at the university.
Colleagues from across the university’s science community have been jointly hosting a series of public science lectures for over a decade.
The series is currently organised by colleagues within the Institute of Policy and Engagement and Dr.
Hilary Collins (School of Pharmacy).
If you would like any more information about the series or would like to be added to the mailing list, please don’t hesitate to contact us.
Contact Hilary Collins, event organiser

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/policy-and-engagement/events/events-2025/forest-castle-exhibition.aspx:
As part of the FOREST exhibition, the Institute is supporting a unique collaboration between artist Caroline Locke and researchers from across the University.
Using laser scanning technology, engineers created a 3D model of the Major Oak in Sherwood Forest, providing data that informed Locke’s new artwork exploring the vibrations and structure of this iconic tree.
The project brought together expertise from Engineering, Biosciences, Geography and Music, highlighting the power of interdisciplinary research to support creative practice.
This process forms the basis of a new four-screen video installation by artist and filmmaker Georgianna Scurfield, which is a key feature of the FOREST exhibition.
Scheduled to be shown in the Square Gallery, the work brings together artistic and academic perspectives to offer a powerful, multi-sensory experience rooted in the life of this legendary tree.
Mo Zhou , a PhD student in our Department of Music, has also created a sound walk that will transport you back 1,000 years into the heart of Sherwood Forest.
There will be a public preview on Friday 23 May, 6–8pm, with artists and project partners in attendance.
This preview is free but you need to book ahead!
The main exhibition opens to the public on Saturday 24 May and runs until Sunday 5 October 2025.
University Park Nottingham NG7 2RD
t: +44 (0) 115 951 5151 e: theinstitute@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/manuscriptsandspecialcollections/exhibitions/countrylives.aspx:
This exhibition runs from Thursday 10 April until Sunday 21 September 2025, at the Weston Gallery, Lakeside Arts.
Discover how the countryside has been used and depicted over the last 200 years.
From idyllic and picturesque scenes to the realities of rural life, ‘Country Lives’ explores the powerful and enduring impact the English countryside has had on people.
The English countryside has long been a place to live, work, play, explore, protest and reimagine.
‘Country Lives’ highlights how writers, artists, tourists, rural inhabitants and workers depicted the countryside, showing what it meant to different people.
Items from Manuscripts and Special Collections, including photographs, sketches, books, letters, maps and board games, are brought together for the first time to illuminate a wide range of country lives and different aspects of the countryside.
This exhibition is jointly curated by University of Nottingham Libraries, Manuscripts and Special Collections, and Dr Sarah Holland, Department of History, University of Nottingham.
Themes
Films
Blogs
Events
Six exhibition boards are on display in the Gallery.
One of the boards can be downloaded or viewed online as Adobe PDF.
Country Lives: Introduction (Download PDF)
Items from our collections are available to consult in the Manuscripts and Special Collections reading room on King's Meadow Campus.
Country lives is focused on the Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire countryside.
Links to collections relating to the themes featuring in the exhibition can be found below.
Collections by subject: Family and Estate Resources
Collections by subject: East Midlands Collection
Digital Gallery: Nottinghamshire maps
Digital Gallery: Natural History
David Matless, Professor of Cultural Geography at the University of Nottingham, explores the representation of the English countryside, showing how the depiction of rural landscape was also held to say something about England as a country.
Images of English rural work and leisure illustrate issues of culture and politics which continue to shape country lives in the twenty-first century.
The countryside was often thought of as a healthy place during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.
However, this could mask the realities for those living and working there.
In this talk, Dr Sarah Holland, Associate Professor of History at the University of Nottingham, will explore ideas and lived experiences relating to health and the countryside.
Folklore and folk customs have played an important role in the history of rural communities.
In this talk, Jessica Lloyd-May explores what a case study of the Randwick Wap, a May custom that takes place in the village of Randwick, Gloucestershire, tells us about different aspects of folk customs.
Using a variety of sources, connections between rural community, folk custom and wider interest in folklore studies are made.
Read our blog about items associated with the Country lives exhibition - there will be more coming soon!
Country lives features diaries, photographs, letters and publications collected by Dr Edward Wrench of Baslow, Derbyshire.
Read all about this fascinating (and very busy!) man.
Go to blog post
Sharing a selection of items from our collections which can give us insight into how the countryside has been used and depicted in the past.
The Thoresby Estate features in the Country lives exhibition as a case study of providing access to the countryside for visitors.
Lady Rozelle Raynes was the estate's owner, but her first love was sailing
A programme of associated talks and events will be held at Lakeside Arts.
A series of special events will be held to accompany the exhibition.
Places are limited so please book in advance with Lakeside Arts : +44(0)115 846 7777 Recordings of some of the talks will be made available on this webpage shortly.
Depictions of the English Countryside in the Twentieth Century
In this talk David Matless, Professor of Cultural Geography at the University of Nottingham, will explore the representation of the English countryside in the twentieth century, showing how the depiction of rural landscape was also held to say something about England as a country.
Twentieth century images of English rural work and leisure illustrate issues of culture and politics which continue to shape country lives in the twenty-first century.
Tuesday 20 May, 1 - 2pm; £3 (free concessions)
Health and the Countryside
Wednesday 18 June, 1 - 2pm; £3 (free concessions)
Folk custom and rural communities - the making and remaking of the Randwick Wap
Using a variety of sources, connections between rural community, folk custom and wider interest in folklore studies will be made.
Wednesday 25 June, 1 - 2pm; £3 (free concessions)
Changing Rural Landscape: a guided walk of University Park Campus
Join Dr Sarah Holland, Associate Professor of History (University of Nottingham) for a guided walk around the historic University Park Campus.
Using images and documents from the University of Nottingham’s Manuscripts and Special Collections, this walk will explore the hidden histories still evident in the landscape and uncover some of the fascinating stories of people who lived and worked here over the last two centuries.
Tuesday 3 June 2025, 1pm-2.30pm
Friday 20 June 2025, 11am-12.30pm £5 Advanced booking required
Weston Gallery tours
Join curator Dr Sarah Holland for a guided walk through the exhibition and learn about the stories behind the items on display.
Wednesday 18 June 2025, 11am-12 noon Wednesday 25 June 2025, 11am-12 noon FREE Advanced booking required
*NEW*
Join curator Kathryn Summerwill of Manuscripts and Special Collections for a guided tour of the exhibition in association with Heritage Open Days
Thursday 18 September 11am-12 noon at the Weston Gallery
FREE Advanced booking required.
Please contact Manuscripts and Special Collections to book a place on this tour
We also run private tours of the Weston Gallery exhibition and can organise other private tours and talks for your group!
Please contact Manuscripts and Special Collections if you would like to arrange a private tour of Country lives
Follow Manuscripts and Special Collections Exhibitions on @mssUniNott to keep up to date with the latest exhibition news, or read the latest issue of our free magazine, Discover .
Online exhibitions
Kings Meadow Campus Lenton Lane Nottingham, NG7 2NR
telephone: +44 (0) 115 951 4565 fax: +44 (0) 115 846 8651 email: mss-library@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/Research/Groups/Experimental-Medicine-Metabolic-and-Nutritional-Physiology/Events/Ageing-Exercise-Health-Event.aspx:
Hear from Leading Experts:
David Greenfield Human Physiology Unit School of Life Sciences Medical School University of Nottingham Nottingham, NG7 2UH

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/policy-and-engagement/events/events-2025/future-makers.aspx:
For any questions please contact theinstitute@nottingham.ac.uk
Astronaut floating in space

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/corporate-social-responsibility-opportunities.aspx:
Your organisation can help us to change lives and shape the new world.
We work with a variety of corporate partners who support essential research, improve student experience, provide opportunities for graduates and help to boost the local economy.
The University of Nottingham was founded on the philanthropy of Sir Jesse Boot, who donated the land on which University Park Campus now stands.
We’re proud to work with partners including Santander, GlaxoSmithKline, Walgreen Boots, Caterpillar, Gleeds, David Wilson Homes, ABInBev and Enterprise-Rent-A-Car.
Make a significant and tangible impact on causes you’re interested in.
Here are some of the initiatives you can support:
Chat to our team to see how your company can make a difference.
Tel +44 (0)115 846 7213
Email supportus@nottingham.ac.uk
Campaign and Alumni Relations Office Ground Floor, Pope Building The University of Nottingham University Park Nottingham NG7 2RD

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/contact-us/contact.aspx:
This is the place to collaborate, innovate, and grow your business.
Please complete this form, and a member of the team will get in touch with you.
We aim to respond to all enquiries within three working days.
However, if your query relates to any of the following areas, please contact the relevant department directly:
Visit our privacy policy .
to learn more about how we handle your data.
David Allen +44 (0)7811 846591 david.allen1@nottingham.ac.uk
Dr Mita Lad +44 (0)7779 551485 mita.lad@nottingham.ac.uk
Caroline Sykes caroline.sykes@nottingham.ac.uk
Ben Nichols +44 (0)115 748 4136 ben.nichols@nottingham.ac.uk
Research and Innovation office workwithus@nottingham.ac.uk
Visit web page
Research and Innovation University of Nottingham Jubilee Campus E Floor, Yang Fujia Building Wollaton Rd Lenton Nottingham NG8 1BB
Email us Sign up for emails Follow us on LinkedIn

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/services/aerospace.aspx:
The aerospace industry is growing at a phenomenal rate.
It’s estimated that by 2030, there will be around 27,000 new aircraft in the skies, worth around $3.7tn.
The UK already has the world’s second largest aerospace sector – and global demand is accelerating.
The government has pledged to invest £1bn, matched by industry, to facilitate continued development and enable the country to benefit economically and socially from the industry – with limited impact on the environment.
This is complemented by European investment of €4bn through the Clean Sky Joint Undertaking and Horizon2020 research and innovation programmes.
To support the industry, we set up the Institute for Aerospace Technology (IAT) .
Today, the facility is home to a 400-strong team of leading researchers delivering innovative, multidisciplinary research expertise.
It’s driving the development of cutting-edge technology that will radically improve all aspects of air transport.
IAT is a partner of choice in our five key areas of research:
We’re always searching to discover the next innovation within aerospace by bringing people and projects together.
If you share our ambition and drive for smarter, greener and faster aircraft, we’d like to hear from you.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/services/agrifood.aspx:
Taking a Food Systems approach our capabilities align to solving the pressing need to support a healthy planet and healthy people, through the creation of sustainable and resilient food systems, impacting on environmental, economic, and societal challenges, providing food for better nutrition and health of a global population.
We use our pioneering approach and transdisciplinary collaboration to find sustainable solutions to the global food challenges brought about by climatic and socio-political stresses.
On a scientific, geographical and political level, we’re ideally placed to undertake high-calibre research, from seed to digestion.
Collaboration with the university can open a world of possibility for your business; from tackling food waste to innovative plant-based pies or creating the perfect crisp , we work with businesses to find solutions to their needs.
Together with our campuses in China and Malaysia, we offer one of the largest groups of plant, crop, nutrition, animal, consumer, and food science experts in the UK.
Here are just some of the services we provide to businesses:
Including sustainable and resilient food processing, additive manufacturing, adaptive and autonomous processing, low energy, and water usage through process re-design.
Including consumer and sensory studies ‘in the wild’, marketing and psychology, human and animal nutrition trails and in-vitro nutritional analyses, advanced imaging for understanding the gut-brain axis.
If you have an innovative idea you want to develop, our experts at the Food Systems Institute and the Food Innovation Centre can help you turn your idea into reality.
Contact Dr Mita Lad, Business Partnerships Manager mita.lad@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/services/creative-and-digital-industries.aspx:
The UK’s Artificial Intelligence (AI) market is currently valued at over £16.4 billion and is projected to add £780 billion to the UK economy by 2035.
In 2023, the Department for Science, Innovation and Technology committed approximately £1 billion in funding for next generation supercomputing and AI research.
Plus, a further £2.5 billion in the next ten years as part of its Quantum Strategy programme , aimed at nurturing new scale-up investment and high-quality job creation in the UK.
At the same time, the government released its National Semiconductor Strategy committing up to £1 billion in investment (with up to £200 million focused over the years 2023-2025), in the next decade to improve infrastructure access, advance R&D and facilitate greater collaboration.
The University of Nottingham is committed to supporting the government's UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) agenda, with a focus on the five technologies of tomorrow:
Researchers across the university have strong links with industry, applying their expertise to finding solutions to real world challenges, from robotics and AI to data optimisation and virtual reality.
If you have an innovative idea you want to develop, please get in touch.
Matthew Vincent Business Partnerships Manager matthew.vincent@nottingham.ac.uk
View case study >

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/services/energy.aspx:
We are a major international centre for energy research, with a reputation for excellence across a broad range of technology-based activities.
Our University of Nottingham Energy Institute unites energy research across a range of disciplines, bringing together over 150 academics with an impressive portfolio of energy research, development and demonstration projects worth over £60m – funded by government, industry and the EU.
Download our Energy Capabilities document , including an A-Z of energy expertise.
Local businesses can access funded support for energy projects.
Visit Energy for Business .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/services/health.aspx:
We are a research leader in the $512 billion global medical devices industry.
Our work ranges from R&D collaborations with multinational companies and SMEs, through to successful innovations via spin-out companies.
And we’re always looking for opportunities to work closely with organisations to drive future health innovation and economic development.
Our expertise includes core engineering areas, clinical expertise and need identification.
We have close links with local teaching hospitals, translational medicine and health-economic modelling.
And our region is home to a diverse and stable multi-ethnic population – enabling scalable clinical trials.
Caroline Sykes Business Partnerships Manager caroline.sykes@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/services/pharma.aspx:
As a world-leading centre for research in the design, testing and use of medicines, we enjoy strong collaborations with partners in the pharmaceutical, biopharma and biomaterials sectors.
Our well-established links with local hospitals mean we’re one of the few academic centres that can perform virtually everything in the classic drug discovery and development cascade, from target identification to clinical trials.
We can also help you find solutions to your formulation and advanced manufacturing needs.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/services/sustainable-chemistry.aspx:
With the need to transition to a lower carbon future, our research focuses on developing chemicals more sustainably, by reducing the energy intensity of manufacturing processes and developing bio-based, renewable sources for chemical feedstocks.
We integrate the development of small-scale production of novel chemicals – often using synthetic biology – with process engineering facilities and expertise.
Our research also covers techno-economic analyses to demonstrate which new chemicals can be produced economically at a commercial scale.
The Synthetic Biology Research Centre concentrates on engineering bacteria to make industrially-useful products from the waste greenhouse gases: principally carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide, but with an interest in methane.
C1Net is dedicated to the development and scalable production of C1 gas fermentation for the whole IB community.
Located in the University’s award-winning Innovation Park, the Carbon Neutral Laboratory provides cutting-edge facilities for chemistry.
The focus on sustainability is reflected in the building itself, which incorporates the latest technologies to allow it to be carbon-neutral over its lifetime.
Green chemicals is one of our six research Beacons of Excellence , bioengineering the next global industrial revolution and remaking the building blocks of the modern economy.
The Chemistry Business Partnership Unit supports innovation partnerships between academics and business.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/services/transport.aspx:
How we move people, goods and services around our towns, cities and countryside is changing significantly.
New technologies such as zero emission vehicles and self-driving cars are improving transport to make it safer, cleaner and better connected.
The UK’s road and rail network could dramatically reduce carbon emissions and other pollutants.
Automated vehicles could reduce congestion through higher-density use of road space.
And mobility could be available when we want it, where we want it and how we want it.
We are leading the global race towards creating a smarter, greener, sustainable and more efficient transport system.
And we’re always looking for opportunities to collaborate with innovators in this space.
Our research covers five themes:
Seamless mobility and optimisation of transport of goods and people
We apply this expertise to the aerospace, automotive and rail sectors.
Each face shared challenges, and our multidisciplinary approach will discover synergies and deliver exciting, innovative solutions.
Download our Transport, Mobility and Cities capability brochure (PDF)
Propulsion Futures Beacon of Excellence
Within this beacon, we are fuelling the discovery and translation of new materials, components and technologies to drive innovative electrified propulsion systems in this new age of sustainable transport.
Deep Academic Alliance – Transport Systems Catapult
We have signed a formal agreement to support government plans to make the UK a world-leader in driverless and interconnected vehicles and intelligent transport infrastructures.
The alliance will also bring together academia, research councils and key industry players to provide evidence and policy advice to underpin, plan and regulate new transport systems.
Smart Campus
We have opened up our campus to enable students, academics and businesses to examine and evaluate user behaviours and to trial smart concepts including bike and car share schemes and an active travel dashboard.
We’re also working in partnership with Nottingham City Council to explore how learning and innovation from the University’s Smart Campus can be scaled up across the wider urban area.
AceDrive
This project takes electronics cooling technology to production and aims to deliver the optimum electric drive for future hybrid and full electric passenger cars.
This £8m programme includes cross-faculty collaborations and includes major industry partners.
Ben Nichols Business Partnerships Manager ben.nichols@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/services/academic-consultancy.aspx:
Nottingham University Consultants will help you to identify and engage with academic consultants to access our world-class research knowledge and expertise and facilities.
We'll make the process as easy as possible by handling all the contractual, administrative and financial aspects of your engagement.
Academics at the University work as consultants for organisations in the public and private sectors all over the world.
We have over 3,000 academics and research staff, working across all disciplines.
There are many ways our academic consultants can work with your organisation:
Download our employers guide to academic consultancy.
Contact our dedicated Nottingham University Consultants team to get started.
Email nuc@nottingham.ac.uk .
Alternatively, you can search our expertise guide to locate an expert in your sector.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/services/license-our-technology.aspx:
We have extensive experience of working with businesses to help them license innovative technologies developed here at The University of Nottingham.
We are always keen to meet with businesses that would like to partner with us to develop these ideas.
Many companies have successfully and profitably licensed our technologies in areas such as medicine, engineering, mining, cosmetics, food & drink, building and IT.
A list of technologies currently available for licensing can be found here.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/develop-workforce/verified-by-uono.aspx:
Click on the questions below to learn more about verified by UoNO.
What does 'verified by University of Nottingham Online' mean?
University of Nottingham Online (UoNO) partners with organisations to offer external oversight and review of their learning products by subject experts from the University of Nottingham.
We recognise these partnerships by issuing 'verified by' digital badging, certificates and transcripts to any learner who completes a learning product that we have reviewed and recommended for verification.
Recipients of these digital credentials are encouraged to highlight their new skills by embedding their digital badges within their online profiles, CVs and social networks.
Employers and other interested parties can check the credentials them by clicking through to view the learner’s certificate and transcript which can be freely accessed through our digital badging provider.
To be 'verified by UoNO', our partners will have provided evidence to our subject experts and satisfied that:
i.
the scope and breadth of the learning product aligns with its stated aims and learning outcomes
ii.
the learning product’s activities provide suitable opportunities for learners to develop the knowledge, skills and behaviours required to achieve these outcomes
iii.
learners who have completed the learning can evidence that they have achieved the outcomes
iv.
the amount of time required to complete the learning appropriately reflects its scale and scope
How is verification different to validation?
The objective of verification is to provide a credible, low-friction mechanism for independent, expert-led confirmation of what a learner has learnt and the amount of time it is likely to have required to complete it.
It is a way of enhancing the credibility and value of a learning product through confirmation, by a world-class university, that it can deliver for learners what is claimed.
However, verification does not imply any equivalence with the credit-bearing learning provided by universities or attempt to equate the learning that has been verified with the requirements of any qualification framework, subject benchmark statement, or professional, statutory and regulatory body.
Verification is distinct from validation and should not be confused with it.
Validation is the formal process by which universities confer academic credit onto learning, and through which academic standards and the quality of the student experience are assured.
It is regulated by the Office for Students.
Validation requires formal evidencing of the alignment of learning with appropriate qualification frameworks, subject benchmark statements and the requirements of professional, statutory and regulatory bodies.
Only validated learning can be awarded academic credit that can lead to a recognised qualification.
What is the UoNO verification process and who is involved?
The verification process has two parts:
A learning product review
A cohort outcomes confirmation
The learning product review is completed by a recognised subject expert from the university.
They work directly with the organisation to review each learning product’s aims, outcomes, content, resources and materials.
In many cases they will also explore how the learner engages with these within the provider’s online learning platform.
On completion of the review, the subject expert delivers a report recommending whether the learning product meets the criteria for verification.
Where verification is recommended, a cohort outcomes confirmation is then completed.
The subject expert will review a representative, anonymised sample of learner’s work across a cohort in order to confirm that there is evidence that they have achieved the product’s learning outcomes.
On completion of the cohort outcomes confirmation, UoNO will request details of each learner in the cohort from the organisation and issue the digital credentials.
How long does a digital credential last?
Once issued, our digital credentials can be accessed through our digital badging provider.
We do not time limit our digital credentials.
For more information about working with University of Nottingham Online to gain verification of your learning product or information about the review process, please email us at UoN-Online@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/business/executive-education/index.aspx:
We provide Executive Education programmes to help you and your business evolve.
Our offer supports profitable, ethical and sustainable growth in a digital world.
The University of Nottingham has a reputation as one of the UK’s leading research institutions.
Our Executive Education programmes draw upon this wealth of knowledge and expertise to develop and deliver management training and executive programmes that inspire creativity, innovation and sustainability.
Whether it’s to empower people, innovate, improve efficiency or increase profitability and business growth, we can support your organisation to achieve its business goals.
We offer a tailored approach to support business resilience and growth, plus personal and professional development through our suite of programmes.
Our open and bespoke programmes are designed for differing positions within organisations including middle management, aspiring future leaders, and Executive Boards.
Typical delivery includes thought leadership and peer group discussions in a flexible and creative environment so that you can gain key insights from the experiences of your tutors and peers.
Find out more about how Executive Education can support you and your business by reading our brochure.
We offer a range of open programmes to help you develop your professional skills and grow your business.
These range from a half day to six months in length.
All University of Nottingham alumni are eligible for a 20% discount on Executive Education open programmes.
Our bespoke, customised programmes offer you a tailored solution designed to address your business needs.
Our Executive Education team delivers professional programmes to support your company’s objectives.
Nottingham University Business School is proud to be among an elite group of business schools worldwide to gain ‘triple crown’ accreditation from the three most influential accrediting organisations.
Find out more about the School's accreditation and rankings
Read Nottingham University Business School news.
Our blog features in-depth features, opinion pieces and discussions.
Connect with Nottingham University Business School
Nottingham University Business School Jubilee Campus Nottingham NG8 1BB
email: executiveeducation@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/business:
At Nottingham University Business School, our unique tri-campus offering provides students with a truly immersive global education that transforms aspiring business leaders into visionaries and change-makers of the future.
We are proud to be among an elite group of 'triple crown' accredited business schools globally.
Explore our UK, Malaysia, and China campuses.
Renowned for our excellence in teaching, research, and thought leadership, we educate and influence people from across the world to become leaders in sustainable business and management.
You will learn from experts in their field, work with leading business practitioners, and benefit from world-leading research.
Our dynamic and supportive community enables our students to excel in a global environment and gain a head-start in their chosen career.
Come and visit us on one of our open days.
Undergraduate - Saturday 13 September 2025 & Saturday 11 October 2025
Top 100 university
AACSB, EQUIS, AMBA
and Small Business Charter accredited
Top 100 Business Masters
QS World Business Masters Rankings 2025
Full list of accreditations
Monday - Friday 9:00am - 4:30pm

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/services/continued-professional-development.aspx:
The world of work is evolving.
And that means the skills needed to succeed in this new world are changing, too.
Our continuing professional development, training and executive education will help you advance your knowledge and skills, develop your interests and deliver a deeper understanding of your subject.
We offer a broad programme of MBAs, specialist training and bespoke courses, specifically designed to support you throughout your learning experience.
Visit the relevant school links below to discover our range of opportunities and to book onto a course.
Or contact cpd@nottingham.ac.uk to discuss how we can help you.
We translate cutting-edge academic research into applied industry expertise.
Visit the School of Biosciences
Our Executive Education courses are for businesses, organisations, teams of individuals who want to do things differently.
Visit the Business School
Our programme provides an extensive range of professional development opportunities for educators.
Visit the School of Education >
The school provides training opportunities and masterclasses for health and social care professionals.
Visit Healthcare CPD >
Find your voice by enrolling in one of the language classes delivered by our Language Centre.
Visit the Language Centre >
We offer programmes in International Human Rights Law, and in Public Procurement Law and Policy.
Visit the School of Law >
Our Linguistic Profiling for Professionals team uses research in how language is used in real-life work environments to inform our training, courses and consultancy.
Visit Linguistic Profiling for Professionals >
Our School of Mathematical Sciences offers a distance learning MSc in Statistical Science.
Visit the School of Mathematical Sciences
Over the last 25 years, our professional, clinical and academic courses have gained an unrivalled national and international reputation.
Visit the School of Medicine >
Courses for qualified social workers and practice educators as well as customised courses for managers and leaders.
Visit the School of Sociology and Social Policy
Designed to develop theoretical and practical skills, our courses cover all levels, from the new graduate to the experienced practitioner.
Visit the School of Veterinary Medicine and Science >
If you have a specific development path you’d like your talent to follow, we can create a bespoke education programme designed around them.
Contact our CPD team to discuss your requirements
Email cpd@nottingham.ac.uk Tel +44 (0)115 7484352

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/services/knowledge-transfer-partnerships.aspx:
Part-funded by Innovate UK , KTPs are available to UK registered businesses and charities looking to solve a strategic business challenge.
Projects are designed collaboratively to address a specific need and challenges by transferring knowledge and expertise from within the university and embedding it into the organisation.
Here at the University of Nottingham we’ve delivered over 160 KTP projects, securing more than £16.5 million in government funding to help businesses unlock their potential.
Discover how XAIS-PTS and the University of Nottingham used predictive technology to transform road maintenance through a Knowledge Transfer Partnership.
Contact our KTP team
Download a brochure
Information for students
Latest case studies
KTPs are a dynamic three-way collaboration between:
Projects last between 12 months and 3 years.
Funded by Innovate UK, grants vary depending on size and type of business:
Skip to the FAQs below for more details.
You’ll be supported throughout the project by our expert KTP team, plus one of Innovate UK Business Connect’s Knowledge Transfer Advisers.
Management KTPs are very similar to a standard KTP but with a focus on driving effectiveness and productivity through improved management practices.
They aim to enable transformational improvement by identifying key, strategic management-based initiatives to increase business effectiveness.
This can be achieved by partnering with academics from a Business School and/or a multidisciplinary academic team according to your aims and needs.
Management KTPs take a wide view, incorporating a range of leadership and management skills and requirements to build a strategy that drives change and improves business performance.
Spanning all key business functions – from marketing to IT; creativity to strategic management; HR to employment relations; finance to logistics – Management KTPs seek to support strategic management projects across core activities including:
KTPs are part-funded by an attractive government grant.
For small and medium-sized enterprises the grant rate is 67% of the project cost; for large companies 50%; and for charity organisations the grant rate is 75%.
Project costs are variable, but the typical budget for a two-year programme with a single Associate is approximately £230,000 made up as follows:
An independent business with fewer than 250 employees will contribute 33% of the project costs approximately £35,000 – £40,000 p.a..
Large businesses, or businesses that are ultimately owned by a large organisation or group, contribute 50% of the costs, approximately £55,000 – £60,000 p.a..
Third-sector organisations and charities contribute 25% of the costs, approximately £25,000 – £30,000 p.a..
This is a cash contribution and will be subject to VAT.
The grant is awarded to the university to administer, therefore a KTP does not count as state-aid and the business contribution towards the KTP may be eligible for R&D tax credits.
As the budget holder for the KTP, the university will administer the finances and grant claims.
The university’s KTP Team will invoice the business to request the business’s contribution to the budget.
The invoicing arrangements will be agreed up front prior to the start of the KTP (normally in equal amounts each quarter in arrears).
Any equipment bought from the KTP budget usually remains the property of the university at the end of the KTP, however this can be negotiated towards the end of the project.
KTP proposals are submitted as an online grant application through Innovate UK open competitions.
There are five deadlines each year.
The proposal is jointly written by the business and university and outlines the project objectives and deliverables.
The partnership receives support and guidance throughout the application process from the university’s KTP Team and an Innovate UK Knowledge Transfer Adviser.
This support enables a very high success rate.
The process takes a minimum four months from first contact to the awarding of a grant.
Projects can run from 12 months to 3 years, depending on the time required to transfer the knowledge and deliver the outputs; the average project duration is two years.
A business may have up to four projects running at the same time, however the business will need to demonstrate how the proposed projects differ from each other.
To ensure that the knowledge is transferred, objectives delivered, and benefits maximised for each party, the KTP is monitored by a Local Management Committee (LMC).
The LMC is made up of all the key project members; senior business representative, business and academic supervisors and the Knowledge Transfer Adviser.
The Associate attends and reports on project progress.
The LMC meets every four months throughout the KTP and many of the key decisions on the project are made at the LMC meetings.
In addition to the LMC meetings, monthly three-way project meetings are held between the Associate, business, and academic supervisors, to review progress against planned objectives and agree short-term targets.
The Associate will be recruited on the open market, facilitated by the university’s HR Team.
The recruitment process is agreed between the business and the university.
Interviews usually take place at the business premises and the decision on who to appoint is taken jointly.
The recruitment process normally takes an average of six months from the date of the grant offer.
In line with the KTP funding criteria, the  partners are required to enter into an agreement over confidentiality and Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) before the project begins.
We’ll talk you through the process, and help develop your proposal to give you the best chance of securing funding.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/services/innovate-uk-funding.aspx:
We’re committed to developing research programmes that have the power to transform industry, boost productivity and improve people’s lives.
And we’re always looking to help businesses fund projects that share this commitment.
Our team can help develop projects that bring together researchers and companies to produce innovations that meet the challenges in the Government’s Industrial Strategy.
Innovate UK is the government's innovation agency.
It drives productivity and growth by de-risking innovation and enabling businesses to grow through the development and commercialisation of new products, processes, and services.
Innovate UK runs regular funding competitions designed to help businesses accelerate innovation.
Funding is available for projects aligned with the UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) Strategy and subdomains within them:
Visit Innovate UK’s website for the current funding opportunities .
Businesses can apply for grant funding from Innovate UK to develop and deliver projects worth between £25,000 and £10 million.
The funding is available to any UK registered business to develop innovative products, processes, and services, which can be exploited in and/or from the UK.
The university has a great track record in supporting successful and innovative companies.
Since 2004, the university has collaborated with over 290 businesses and helped them to secure Innovate UK funding of over £280 million for their R&D projects.
If you’re interested in finding out more about how the university can support you to develop your innovations through Innovate UK funding Send an enquiry
Or contact us by phone directly:
Dr Kangala Chipasa, CR&D Manager 07840 107122
Dr Melissa Simpson, CR&D Officer 07931 992789

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/news/knowledge-exchange-framework:
The University of Nottingham continues to make strides in collaborative work with industry professionals and the public sector, demonstrated in this year’s Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF) rankings.
Conducted by Research England, KEF provides an overview of the knowledge exchange activities and performance of English universities, across seven broad perspectives including public engagement and local growth.
This year’s results show the University of Nottingham is outshining its Russell Group peers in four of the seven areas: ‘Local Growth and Regeneration’, ‘Public and Community Engagement’, ‘Working with Business’ and ‘Working with the public and third sector’.
Nottingham increased the levels of relative income across the board by a total of £5.7M and improved position within the Russell Group ranking in a number of areas, most notably collaborative research, regeneration revenue, regeneration capital and facilities and equipment.
He added: “The aim of this survey is to measure how universities work with external partners for the benefit of the economy and wider society.
Our results reflect Nottingham's work with local partners to further excel the work we're doing in a variety of sectors, and I hope that the advances we continue to make will have real benefits for local people and businesses.
“I am pleased to see that Nottingham has continued to perform well scoring higher than its peers in Local Growth and Regeneration’, ‘Public and Community Engagement’, ‘Working with Business’ and ‘Working with the public and third sector’.
I am particularly pleased to see growth in the area of ‘Local Growth and Regeneration’ which is testament to our ongoing relationship and commitment to working with the East Midlands Combined Authority.”
The latest KEF ranking also confirmed the University of Nottingham’s leading role as a Knowledge Exchange institution in the East Midlands.
UoN is ranked very high or high engagement in 13 of the 16 metrics, and the only institution in the EM ranked very high or high in all 8 of the IP and business metrics highlighting our critical role in the regional innovation ecosystem.
The University of Nottingham has a number of strong partnerships with local and regional partners to strengthen its offering of knowledge and research.
The Zero Carbon Cluster (ZCC) was launched in 2022 with a group of leading researchers to support intradisciplinary research and accelerate the translation of zero-carbon research into real-world commercial and policy solutions.
Pairing innovative technology with world-leading research expertise in, the ZCC actively engages with industry and government partners to align research priorities and ensure sustainable solutions can be rolled out at scale and pace.
Last year, more than five million pounds from East Midlands Freeport , match-funded by the University of Nottingham and Loughborough University, was announced for a new Zero Carbon Innovation Centre, primarily based at Nottingham’s Jubilee Campus.
This centre will consolidate the East Midlands’ position as a world leader in the development and deployment of innovation in green industries, attracting international investment and providing support for global businesses.
Commenting on today’s news, Tom Newman-Taylor, Chief Executive at East Midlands Freeport, said:
Miss Manjeet Shehmar, Medical Director at Nottingham University Hospitals, added: "We're delighted to see the outcome of the KEF.
"NUHT and UoN collaborate closely across a wide range of programmes.
Whether via our flagship collaboration in the NIHR Biomedical Research Centre, spin-outs providing new patient treatments such as NuVision or in our teaching programmes that are training the healthcare workforce of tomorrow in the cutting edge techniques of today.
"Through our close partnership we are driving innovation together that is transforming and improving lives, and in broader terms the regions health and wellbeing."
More information is available from Faith Pring in the Press Office on faith.pring@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/case-studies/sprint-electric:
Sprint Electric
Sprint Electric is a world leading manufacturer of drives for industrial motor control.
Founded in 1987, the firm has traditionally specialised in the design and manufacture of direct current (DC) motor controllers.
Sprint Electric was looking to expand its market reach by diversifying into the alternating current (AC) market – in particular, AC drives using a unique switching technology to provide four quadrant control.
A huge advantage of this new switching technology over other AC motor drives is the ability to regenerate energy enabling power flow either transiently or continuously from the motor to the supply and at the same time producing no harmonic distortion in the supply current.
This technology allows AC-AC power conversion with no requirement for an intermediate DC bus as used in traditional AC Drives.
The result is a much more compact and reliable AC regenerative drive.
The aim of the project was to develop this patented AC drive switching technology to be suitable for high reliability applications.
This is a significant technical challenge because although electrolytic capacitors inherently make inverters less reliable, they do allow them to tolerate high levels of supply voltage instability.
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) are a three-way collaboration between a UK-based business or charity, a research organisation, and a qualified graduate known as a KTP Associate who has the capability to lead a strategic business project.
Building on the success of a previous KTP with the University of Nottingham, Sprint Electric were partnered with power electronics engineer and KTP Associate, Azlia Abdul Rahman.
Azlia was guided by the academic expertise of Professor Pat Wheeler and Associate Professor Liliana de Lillo , with support from researchers from the Power Electronics, Machines and Control (PEMC) Research Group in the Faculty of Engineering.
With world-renowned expertise in AC drive switching technology, the PEMC Research Group had a detailed understanding of the challenges facing Sprint Electric.
Fully embracing the collaborative opportunity, the company opted to establish a base at the PEMC Centre on Nottingham’s Jubilee Campus.
With the support of Associate Professor Liliana de Lillo and the team at the PEMC Research Group, Azlia created a low voltage simulation model of an AC drive using bi-directional switching technology for AC-AC power conversion to gain a better understanding of the underlying principles.
She also devised a set of design recommendations, for both hardware and software, to improve the robustness of this technology against supply disturbances.
Working alongside engineers at the company the team created a 22kW prototype converter, designed to work at 400V, which they put through a series of rigorous trials.
The collaboration resulted in the creation of the Generis AC regeneration drive .
Designed to not only lower running costs, benefits also include reduced heat generation, motor control accuracy and improved system efficiency.
The company launched the Generis at the Smart Production Solutions (SPS) exhibition in Nuremberg in November 2023.
They went on to secure funding from Innovate UK’s Investor Partnerships programme , enabling it to accelerate the development of the Generis range to power outputs from 22kW to 200kW.
Finally, the collaboration has encouraged Sprint Electric to apply more structured design methods within the business, including greater rigour in the specification process and use of Failure Mode and Effects Analysis (FMEA) in the design process to control risk.
The benefits accruing from these improved working practices have led to Sprint Electric appointing a Quality Manager who will be responsible for formally documenting the processes and training staff in their use.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/case-studies/warners-distillery:
Warner’s Distillery
Warner’s Distillery is a world leading premium farm-born spirits producer.
Its spirits are crafted using natural ingredients directly from the botanical gardens, hedgerows, and natural springs on its farm estate in Harrington, Northamptonshire.
Established in 2012, the family-run business was keen to develop a deeper understanding of the interactions between botanical ingredients in the gin distilling and post-distillation process.
Passionate about investing in R&D, the company's long-term goal was to become market leaders and category innovators within the spirits industry, by driving product development, increasing consumer engagement and sales.
Taking place over three years, the University of Nottingham partnered Warner’s Distillery with KTP Associate Rachel Sutherland and Dr Rebecca Ford, Associate Professor in Sensory and Consumer Science at the Sensory Science Centre in the School of Bioscience at the University of Nottingham.
Fulfilling the science knowledge gap at Warner’s Distillery, the partnership focused specifically on flavour chemistry, seasonal variation in raw materials, quality testing and sensory capabilities.
Key natural ingredients were analysed to identify and address the potential for flavour ‘drift’ over multi-batch and multi-year cycles.
Samples from across the company’s product range underwent an accelerated shelf-life study, assessing the impact of temperature and light, to measure the flavours lost over time, resulting in the development of a predictive model for shelf-life for UK and international export.
Working with members of the sensory team at the university, Warner’s developed robust and practical sensory assessment methods for measuring flavour in high alcohol products.
Finally, the partnership saw the creation of the UK’s largest gin sample set to date, carried out by the University of Nottingham’s International Flavour Research Centre and currently has an academic paper set for publication in 2024 focusing on the behaviour of gin volatile compounds throughout distillation.
Following the completion of the KTP, Warner’s went on to win multiple gold awards across the globe including The Gin Masters , Footprint Drinks Sustainability Awards , and the San Francisco World Spirits Awards .
Warner’s are leading the way in artisan spirit production and are now B Corporation Certified , solidifying their commitment to making business decisions that create positive impact for the environment, customers, suppliers, employees, and the community.
They have also used the knowledge transferred from this KTP to launch a new brand, Trash & Treasure spirits.
The partnership exceeded all aims and objectives established at the outset of the KTP and was awarded an Outstanding grade, enhancing Warner’s reputation as market leaders.
They have presented the KTP results and findings at high profile national and international spirits conferences, including the Craft Distilling Expo , The Gin Guild’s , and the Worldwide Distilled Spirits conference 2023 .
Finally, KTP Associate Rachel Sutherland has remained at Warner’s as their Liquid and Innovation Manager.
During her time as a KTP Associate, Rachel benefitted from professional development activities facilitated by the university, including leadership courses , a PG Cert in Sensory Science, a IBD certified Brewing Science Diploma and associated statistical analysis course.
Rachel also attended sensory courses , networked at industry events including The Gin Guild Banquet in London, and is now an international spirits judge.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/case-studies/xais-asset-management-limited:
XAIS-PTS
XAIS-PTS is a highway infrastructure and asset management company providing a range of services and software solutions to local authorities, highway network operators, and international transport organisations.
XAIS-PTS was keen to complement its services by creating a software solution that could forecast future condition and maintenance requirements of infrastructure assets.
XAIS-PTS recognised that in terms of reputational significance, driver satisfaction and public sector value for money – roads are one of the top priorities for its customers.
Through the introduction of a prediction tool, XAIS-PTS’s clients would benefit from a more holistic approach to planning interventions by identifying and prioritising preventative interventions before they evolve into large and expensive emergency repairs.
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) are a three-way collaboration between a UK-based business or charity, a knowledge-based organisation, and a qualified graduate known as a KTP Associate who can lead a strategic business project.
Over a span of two years, a dynamic partnership unfolded, uniting XAIS-PTS with civil engineer and KTP Associate Dr Leonardo Rodrigues.
Guided by the academic prowess of Associate Professor Luis Neves , from the Resilience Engineering Research Group in the Faculty of Engineering at the University of Nottingham, this collaboration was a testament to the power of collective knowledge and expertise.
Applying methodologies developed within the Resilience Engineering Research Group and supported by Associate Professor Luis Neves, Leonardo developed an advanced life-cycle model for roadway assets based on Petri nets.
By exploiting large datasets, the framework produces prediction scenarios and addresses risks associated with different decisions.
The team leveraged cutting-edge machine learning techniques, which enabled them to identify assets with similar deterioration profiles and predict the future condition of assets with absent or poor data.
Additionally, Dr Leonardo Rodrigues adapted the earthquake engineering concept of fragility functions to estimate the probability of reaching undesirable limit states over time.
This innovation enables a risk-based approach aligned with the Well Managed Infrastructure Code of Practice written by the UK Department for Transport.
In this short film , XAIS-PTS Executive Director James Wallis and Associate Professor Luis Neves from the University of Nottingham share how collaboration between industry and academia is driving innovation – and transforming infrastructure planning.
This collaboration resulted in transforming XAIS-PTS’s XA© Infrastructure Asset Management System (IAMS) and the inclusion of predictive analysis in the web-enabled front end XA© Explorer .
Central to XAIS-PTS’s portfolio, the XA© IAMS captures, manages, integrates, and analyses vital information on road infrastructures and presents it in an easy-to-use online dashboard, allowing local authorities and agencies to make key decisions about service levels and delivery.
Including the developed advanced modelling framework in XA© Explorer has positioned XAIS as a pioneer in the industry, offering local authorities advanced analyses that forecast road networks' future conditions and maintenance needs.
This strategic advancement enriches XAIS-PTS’s offer, directly catering to the pressing need among local authorities for data-driven, evidence-based decision-making tools, saving precious resources and mitigating the impact on road users.
This KTP has empowered XAIS-PTS to embrace continuous growth and innovation in infrastructure asset management.
By driving service innovation, aligning with industry practices, and fostering client engagement, the KTP significantly contributed to XAIS-PTS’s and its broader group’s strategic vision, setting a foundation for future successes in the evolving infrastructure management landscape.
Leonardo went on to win the Future Leaders Category at the National Knowledge Transfer Partnerships Awards in recognition of his innovative approach and commercial awareness.
Highly regarded amongst commercial and academic communities alike, a paper based on his research was presented at the Eighth International Symposium on Life-Cycle Engineering (IALCCE) , with subsequent papers pending.
Leonardo has joined the XAIS-PTS team on a permanent basis as a Senior Infrastructure Analysis Consultant.
Finally, the KTP was awarded “Outstanding” by Innovate UK and an independent evaluator in recognition of a “truly impressive KTP project.”

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/case-studies/jampas:
Jampa's
Researchers in the Division of Food, Nutrition and Dietetics at the University of Nottingham have been awarded funding to develop the next generation of plant-based protein products.
The funding is part of the UK-Canada Innovate UK initiative that aims to strengthen ties between the UK and Canadian food sectors, fostering innovation as both countries intensify efforts toward achieving net zero and creating more sustainable food supply chains.
This collaborative transdisciplinary project will involve three leading research groups from the University of Nottingham, plant-based food producer Jampa’s , as well as the Canadian food manufacturer, Tartistes .
Jampa’s already has a range of clean label plant-based products focused on delivering great taste and texture.
By integrating product reformulation, nutrition science, sensory science and packaging design, the project seeks to maximise the commercial success of the product and provide valuable insights into the broader category, as meat analogues face challenges from consumers.
Jampa’s is building on its successful, long-standing relationship with the Food Innovation Centre (FIC) who is leading in the product design and development.
The project will focus on reformulating Jampa’s current plant-based beef analogue to include local and valorised crops that have potential in both UK and Canadian markets.
"This collaboration represents an exciting step forward in our work developing innovative, sustainable food solutions.
By collaborating with Jampa’s, this grant bridges the gap between cutting edge research and real-world application.
It takes a consumer centric approach to develop nutritionally enriched and great-tasting reformulated products that truly resonate with consumers’ needs and preferences." Dr.
Qian Yang Project lead at the University of Nottingham
To enhance nutritional value, the project places a strong emphasis on delivering nutritious plant-based products with high nutrient bioavailability and digestibility.
This will be achieved at the University’s Nutritional Composition and Digestibility lab where the team will use recently developed and robust in vitro gastro-intestinal digestion techniques integrated with cutting edge mass spectrometry to evaluate protein and amino acid digestibility.
The products will then be subjected to rigorous taste tests with consumers to ensure they are optimised to the highest standards by experts at the Sensory Science Centre .
The team will collaborate closely with Jampa’s innovative packaging designers to create a seamless connection with its consumers, ensuring the product characteristics are communicated effectively.
The project has been supported by the University of Nottingham’s Innovate UK team that has an excellent track record in supporting successful and innovative companies.
If you’re interested in finding out more about how the university can support you to develop your innovations through Innovate UK funding get in touch .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/zero-carbon/home.aspx:
Translating zero carbon research into real-world solutions
Our vision is to accelerate the translation of zero carbon research into high-impact commercial and policy solutions.
We have secured more than £70 million of public and industry co-investment to establish new world-leading and open-access research facilities and programmes.
These will decarbonise future transport for high-growth industries including aerospace, automotive, marine, rail, off-highway and energy.
In partnership with industry and government, we are consolidating the East Midlands’ position as a global leader in developing and deploying innovation in green industries and advanced manufacturing.
We enable fast prototyping and flexible manufacturing.
Our end-to-end manufacturing process capability with robotics and digital twin offers low volume and high value production, with state of the art performance and power.
We enable ‘plug-and-play’ of transport components to test H2 fuel cells, ICE and hybrid-electric systems.
We offer megawatt-scale hydrogen propulsion systems testing, cryogenic test capability for high power machines, and environmental chambers for altitude testing.
We enable monitoring, prognostics & health management of the entire propulsion powertrain.
We provide unique platform enabling system integration, validation and verification.
The University of Nottingham, in partnership with East Midlands Freeport, Research England and Loughborough University, has opened the Zero Carbon Innovation Centre (ZCIC).
The centre will deliver innovation in transport technology, green hydrogen production, and power solutions for industry and create jobs for the regional economy.
The University of Nottingham has secured more than £70 million to establish new world-leading and open-access research facilities and programmes that will decarbonise future transport.
The University of Nottingham, in collaboration with Loughborough University, has been selected to receive a significant funding boost from East Midlands Freeport to accelerate the translation of zero carbon research into high-impact commercial and policy solutions.
The University of Nottingham has received planning permission to construct a new hydrogen propulsion lab on its Jubilee Campus, in partnership with Research England and industry partners.
The University of Nottingham has kicked-off a £5.3 million programme of research to support the development, manufacture and test of a revolutionary cryogenic hydrogen-electric propulsion system.
zerocarboncluster@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/engineering/research/find-an-expert.aspx:
Are you looking for a research collaborator or PhD supervisor?
This is the place where pioneering experts turn research into reality.
Search the table below to find an expert whose expertise matches your research interests.
We have internationally-leading expertise in five key research themes:
Sustainable cities and environment | Sustainable energy | Sustainable transport and mobility
Advanced healthcare technologies and well-being | Advanced materials and manufacturing
Our list of experts is clustered by research group.
You can search by using the quick links below to identify research groups of interest or filter by keyword by using the search box in the blue strip below.
Click on an expert's name to see their profile page including contact details and publications.
It is advisable to contact an expert for a discussion on PhD supervision before appying for postgraduate research opportunities .
If you are looking for an engineering expert for media commentary or interviews, please consult the university’s media guide to expertise .
It features more than 500 experts from across the university.
Advanced Manufacturing Technology
Advanced Materials
Architecture, Culture and Tectonics
Buildings, Energy and Environment
Centre for Additive Manufacturing
Centre for Structural Engineering and Informatics
Composites
Environmental Fluid Mechanics and Geoprocesses
Fluids and Thermal Engineering
Food, Water, Waste
George Green Institute for Electromagnetics Research
Human Factors
Low Carbon Energy and Resources Technologies
Mechanical and Aerospace Systems
Nottingham Centre for Geomechanics
Nottingham Geospatial Institute
Nottingham Transport Engineering Centre
Optics and Photonics
Power Electronics, Machines and Control
Resilience Engineering
Visit Advanced Manufacturing Technology website Back to the top
Professor Samanta Piano (Head of group)
Optical metrology, machine learning, additive manufacturing, form metrology, quantum super-resolution
Professor Dragos Axinte
Innovative manufacturing processes, advanced machining and finishing technologies, abrasive waterjet machining, monitoring and optimisation of manufacturing processes, design and construction of miniature machine tolls, design of innovative tools for aerospace manufacture, product innovation and technology transfer, solid state properties of polymers
Professor David Branson III
Dynamics, controls, non-linear systems, multibody systems, electromechanical systems, wearable sensor systems, collaborative robotics, soft robotics
Dr Xiaolong Chen
Nano/micro materials fabrication, Nano/micro porous structure design and fabrication, additive manufacturing processes, electrochemical metal additive manufacturing, 4D printing, solar energy harvesting and storage, semi-artificial photosynthesis, biophotovoltaics
Professor Adam Clare
Non-traditional manufacturing methods to arrive at net shape while inducing favourable material properties and generating new surfaces on engineering components, developing new manufacturing methods and materials for use in the high value manufacturing sectors including aerospace and biomedical engineering
Dr Simon Lawes
Computing in the future of design practice and the development of precision machines
Professor Richard Leach
Metrology, additive manufacturing, surface topography, optical techniques
Dr Abd Mohammad
Mechatronics, robotics and control
Dr Hengan Ou
Flexible forming technologies for aerospace, automotive and medical applications, process modelling and optimisation, formability and damage of metallic and non-metallic materials
Professor Atanas Popov
Vibration energy harvesting, MEMS vibrating sensing devices, automotive vehicle dynamics and control, model predictive control, aerostructures design and modelling, manufacturing systems
Professor Joel Segal
Micro and nano-replication technologies, nanoscale fabrication and additive manufacture
Professor Svetan Ratchev
Manufacturing systems, process modelling and simulation
Visit Advanced Materials website Back to the top
Professor Ifty Ahmed (Head of group)
Biomaterials, phosphate-based glasses, bioglasses, porous glass microspheres, resorbable fibre composites, orthobiologics, bioengineering
Dr Emma Barney
Structure of glass and disordered materials, understanding structure-property relationships
Professor Paul Brown
Materials characterisation, transmission electron microscopy, functional materials, structural materials, biomaterials, nanotechnology
Professor George Chen
Processes: electrolytic extraction of titanium, silicon, tantalum, zirconium, cathodic refining of metals and alloys, electrochemical polymerisation
Materials and devices: molten salts and ionic liquids, aqueous and organic electrolytes, conducting polymers and ceramics, composite materials of carbon nanotubes, solid and polymeric redox active materials
Energy and environment : regenerative fuels, supercapacitor, rechargeable battery and supercapattery, energy and space efficient electrolysers, capture and conversion of CO2 via electrolysis, electrochemical recycling of waste materials, electro-photocatalytic treatment of wastewaters, thermochromic materials for smart windows
Professor Chris Dodds
Microwave heating, microwave processing, process engineering, dielectric properties, electromagnetic modelling, microwave simulation, radio frequency heating, RF heating, microwave scale up, chemical engineering, microwave processing engineering, polymer synthesis, materials processing
Dr Adam Dundas
Functional biomaterials, droplet microfluidics, polymer synthesis and characterisation, materials discovery and surface characterisation
Professor David Grant
Biomaterials: bioresorbable and antimicrobial coatings, surface modifications, degradation and mechanical behaviour of isotropic and anisotropic structures, new structures and cell surface interactions, nanocomposites and scaffolds for tissue engineering and orthopaedic applications.
Hydrogen storage systems: cost effective metal hydrides and complex systems, hydrogen and thermal energy storage systems, coatings and catalysts for hydride systems, composite structures based on carbon structures, MOFs and other candidate hydrogen storage materials, developing prototypes with industrial partners into practical tanks and thermal stores
Professor Tanvir Hussain
Advanced coatings and surface engineering, new materials discovery and processing, new compositions development using artificial intelligence for thermal barrier coatings, environmental barrier coatings, wear-resistant coatings, corrosion-resistant coatings, insulating coatings and functional coatings for electrification, materials processing using suspension plasma spray (SPS), suspension high velocity oxy-fuel spraying (SHVOF) thermal spray and cold gas dynamic spray (CGDS)
Professor Sam Kingman
Microwave processing of minerals
Professor Ed Lester
Supercritical fluids, supercritical water reactor design, nanoparticle synthesis and applications, scaling up, fuel characterisation, biomass and fossil fuel energy
Dr Ming Li
Electroceramics, impedance spectroscopy, solid state chemistry, solid oxide fuel cells, oxygen separation membranes, ionic conductors, mixed ionic-electronic conductors, ferro and piezo-electrics, ceramic capacitors
Dr Sanliang Ling
Computational materials design, atomistic modelling, machine learning, materials for energy storage and generation, porous materials
Professor Alvaro Mata
Tissue engineering, self-assembling materials, protein-based materials, supramolecular biofabrication, regenerative medicine, in vitro models of disease, protein order-disorder interactions
Professor Begum Tokay
Membrane-based separation technologies, metal organic framework membranes, zeolite membranes, water purification, desalination, gas separation, isomer separations, electro-photocatalysis, ALD, electrochemical-ALD, hydrogen production, water splitting, TiO2 nanotube arrays
Dr Karen Robertson
Flow crystallisation, in situ analysis, continuous crystallisation, flow technologies, flow chemistry, crystallisation
Dr Colin Scotchford
Cell-material surface interactions, biocompatibility assessment or the development of novel materials or structures for the repair or replacement of tissues
Professor Angela Seddon
Mid-infrared fibreoptics for potential applications in early diagnosis in cancer, oil fractionation monitoring, security sensing and monitoring the environment
Professor Philip Shipway
Fretting wear, galling wear
Dr Parimala Shivaprasad
Process intensification, catalysis, biomass valorisation, enzyme catalysis, catalyst immobilisation, material characterisation, reactor design, product development and commercialisation
Dr Federico Venturi
Cold spray, nanocomposite coatings, wear resistant coatings, sustainable energy materials
Dr Katy Voisey
Laser materials processing, corrosion and overlay coatings
Dr Fang Xu
Nanostructures, nanocomposites, polymer composites, thermal management, power electronic packaging, tribology, metal composites
Visit Architecture, Culture and Tectonics website Back to the top
Professor Jonathan Hale (Head of group)
Architectural theory, philosophy, perception, museums
Dr Paolo Beccarelli
ETFE envelopes, membrane structures, tensegrity, tensairity, coated fabrics, biaxial tests, textile architecture, temporary structures, lightweight buildings
Dr Katharina Borsi
History and theory of architecture and urbanism, sustainable and resilient cities, design research and urban design, typology and architecture's autonomy, housing domesticity and its intersection with urbanism
Dr Bernadette Devilat
Architecture, Chile, heritage, earthquakes, re-construction, 3D laser scanning, digital technologies
Dr Laura Hanks
Narrative approaches to found places, particularly the use of spolia in the retention of genius loci, and the role of art in public spaces
Dr Amy Tang
Waterfront regeneration, sustainable urban design, ideal living, conservation planning and practice, age-friendly community
Visit Buildings, Energy and Environment website Back to the top
Dr Rabah Boukhanouf
Energy efficient and sustainable technologies with a focus on application in the built environment, passive and active heating and cooling systems, adsorption and absorption systems, heat pumps, low carbon technologies, heat recovery (HVAC) technologies
Dr John Calautit
History, development and application of lightweight spatial structures, timber gridshells, reinforced concrete shells, space frames and grids, ETFE and membrane architecture, sustainable construction
Professor Jo Darkwa
Thermochemical energy storage technologies, phase change materials (PCM), multiphase change materials (MCM) systems, sustainable energy systems, micro bio-fuel power systems, low carbon construction materials, integrated environmental energy management, low carbon buildings, desiccant technology, green roofs, urban heat Island modelling, green transport technologies, integrated environmental energy management and total quality environmental management
Dr Zigeng Fang
Machine learning, strategic asset management, digital twins
Dr Lorna Kiamba
Sustainable design in architecture, passive design of buildings, thermal building performance, shading performance analysis, thermal comfort, comfort and energy efficiency in buildings, tropical architecture, learning from vernacular architecture and building regulations in developing countries (focus on comfort and energy efficiency)
Dr Sara Mohamed
Sustainable building design, building physics, energy and comfort, net zero carbon, resilience and climate change, passive cooling, overheating, transitioning low-energy buildings to net zero, building retrofit, ventilation and indoor air quality in houses and workplaces, certified Passive House design, and low-carbon buildings for different climates and zones
Dr Siddig Omer
Design and modelling of compressed air energy storage for large-scale renewable energy integration into grid, micro encapsulated phase change materials (MEPCM), micro encapsulated phase change materials (MEPCM), fuel cells and hydrogen technologies, PV self cleaning and cooling technologies for hot and arid climates
Dr Rob Shipman
Data science and machine learning, vehicle-to-grid (V2G) and vehicle-to-building (V2B) technology, smart energy systems, smart local energy communities, demand-side response systems
Professor Yuehong Su
PV, thermal, daylighting, solar concentration, natural ventilation, air conditioning, heat pump, adsorption, absorption, ejector cooling, heat storage, desalination, applied thermodynamics, building energy simulation
Professor Lucelia Taranto Rodrigues
Energy and comfort, carbon neutrality, net zero carbon, transport and mobility electrification, resilience and climate change, sustainable cities, urban regeneration, housing and communities, building retrofit, architecture and design
Dr Serik Tokbolat
Sustainable construction, integration of renewable energy technologies, life cycle assessment (LCA), building certification, building energy simulations, building envelope innovations, indoor environment, occupant behaviour, thermal comfort, building information modelling (BIM), recycling of carbon fibre composites, policy and legislation on climate change and energy efficiency, construction management, circularity
Dr Renata Tubelo
Sustainable architecture and design, energy efficiency and thermal comfort, building performance evaluation, energy modelling and monitoring, building retrofit, fabric first approach and Passive House standard
Dr Chris Wood
Building performance, building airtightness, infiltration, building thermal performance, building retrofit, heat pumps, ground source heat, ground heat storage and extraction, energy and thermal piles, sustainable energy technologies
Dr Xiaofeng Zheng
Building services, building physics, HVAC, airtightness, infiltration, low carbon building and technologies, renewables, heat transfer, thermoelectrics
Visit Centre for Additive Manufacturing website Back to the top
Professor Richard Hague (Head of group)
Additive manufacturing
Dr Martin Baumers
Broad economics of additive manufacturing with an emphasis on developing a total cost vista on the technology
Professor Ruth Goodridge
Healthcare applications of additive manufacturing (3D Printing), new materials for additive manufacturing in particular polymers, polymer nanocomposites and glass,  assistive, adaptive and rehabilitation technologies, polymer powder bed fusion
Dr Yinfeng He
Multi-material 3D printing, additive manufacturing, photopolymerisation
Professor Derek Irvine
Application of novel polymer synthesis, catalysis and processing
Dr Luke Parry
Multi-metal additive manufacturing, design for additive manufacturing, topology optimisation and lattice design, additive manufacturing in aerospace and defence applications, digital twins for advanced engineering
Dr Geoffrey Rivers
Multi-material 3D printing, additive manufacturing, electronic materials, polymers, composites, functional devices, shape-change structures
Professor Chris Tuck
3D Printing, additive manufacturing, materials, sensing and electronics
Professor Lyudmila Turyanska
Low dimensional materials, materials for additive manufacturing, optoelectronic devices, nanomedicine
Professor Ricky Wildman
High throughput methods, bioprinting, multimaterial printing
Visit Centre for Structural Engineering and Informatics website Back to the top
Dr John Owen (Head of group)
Wind engineering, dynamic response of structures to wind, structural dynamics, structural health monitoring
Dr Carlos Osorio Sandoval
Building information modelling, construction simulation, construction health and safety, construction management, parametric modelling, serious games, virtual reality, object-oriented modelling
Dr Madhup Pandey
Cold-formed steel structures, high strength steel, material and structures under elevated temperatures and post-fire conditions, steel structures, strain and stress concentration, sustainable construction, testing and design of steel structures, thin-walled structures, tubular joints and members, welding, 3D printing
Dr Georgia Thermou
Performance assessment, retrofitting of structures (buildings, bridges), resilient construction, sustainable materials in construction, innovative concrete, multi-scale experimental testing, computational modelling, damage information modelling
Visit Composites website Back to the top
Dr Michael Johnson (Head of group)
Polymer composites, fibre reinforced thermoplastic composites, rail vehicle lightweighting, composite shafts, liquid moulding, composite design
Dr Davide De Focatiis
Polymer mechanics, polymer rheology, composites manufacturing, elastomers
Dr Oriol Galvada Diaz
Ceramics and composites, fracture mechanics, micromechanics, advanced characterisation
Professor Lee Harper
Composites manufacturing, composites process simulation, structural analysis, automated preforming
Dr Mikhail Matveev
Composite materials, manufacturing, multi-scale modelling
Dr Tom Turner
Aerospace design for manufacture, automation of composite manufacturing processes, carbon fibre composite materials recycling and reuse
Professor Nick Warrior
Design and manufacture of composite materials particularly in the sectors of automotive and aerospace engineering
Visit Environmental Fluid Mechanics and Geoprocesses website Back to the top
Dr Barbara Turnbull (Head of group)
Environmental fluid mechanics
Dr David Hargreaves
Computational fluid dynamics, wind engineering, dispersion modelling, multiphase flow, porous media, open channel flow, drainage, flooding
Dr Valentin Heller
Experimental fluid dynamics, computational fluid dynamics, landslide-tsunamis (impulse waves), scale effects in fluids and granular flows, marine renewable energy
Professor David Large
Geoscience, peatland, remote sensing, hydrology, earth science, modelling peatland, soil carbon, peatland restoration
Dr Bagus Muljadi
Numerical modelling, porous media, multiscale modelling, computational fluid dynamics, finite element method, peatland, geoscience, poroelastic modelling
Dr Rick Munro
Fluid mechanics, stratified, rotating flows, non-axisymmetric spin-up, rossby waves, turbulence, boundary interactions
Professor Sean Rigby
Enhanced oil recovery, porous media
Visit Fluids and Thermal Engineering website Back to the top
Dr Buddhika Hewakandamby (Head of group)
Multiphase flow, film flows, bubble dynamics, experimental fluid dynamics, flow modelling, heat transfer
Dr Mark Alston
Thermophysics, aerospace, power cooling, precise hydrodynamics, resistance scaling, microfluidic regimes, computation studies, energy capture, heat transport, conductivity active management, system integration, thermally functional materials
Professor Alasdair Cairns
Automotive propulsion systems, Internal combustion engines, Exhaust waste heat recovery, Low carbon fuels, Alternative fuels, BatteriesPowertrain thermal management, Hybrid vehicles, Hybrid aircraft, Electric motors
Professor Kwing-So Choi
Drag reduction, boundary-layer control, flow control, turbulent boundary layer structures, boundary layer transition, deterministic turbulence, high-lift and quiet aerofoils, plasma actuators, unsteady flow control, anti-icing and de-icing control, turbulence, aerodynamics
Dr Sam Dakka
Droplet and spray atomisation, droplet and spray combustion, alternative fuel utilisations, gas turbine engines, rocket and air breathing propulsion, space and electric propulsion, aerodynamics and green aviation, combustion and propulsion, two-phase flow, space systems
Dr Donald Giddings
Computational fluid dynamics, experimental two phase flow in particulate-gas, numerical and experimental heat transfer, liquid-gas-solid systems, absorption refrigeration, multiphase flows, heat transfer, liquid atomisation, wet steam measurement, turbulent reacting flows
Dr David Hann
Experimental multiphase fluids, droplet impact, optical measurement techniques, thermoacoustic for power generation, shearing flows in gas, oil, aeroengine applications
Dr Mark Jabbal
Experimental aerodynamics and fluid dynamics, boundary layer flow control, passive and active drag reduction, synthetic jet actuators, active flow control systems architectures, passive and active noise reduction, heat transfer and thermal management, passive and active cooling technologies
Professor Antonino La Rocca
Internal combustion research projects, diesel and gasoline engines projects with analytical, computational and experimental work elements such as heat Transfer, crystal growth, soot, particulate matter, soot-in-oil, emission control, powertrain and hybrids
Dr Mirco Magnini
Thermal management, fluid mechanics, simulation, boiling
Professor Yuying Yan
Fluid flow and heat transfer, biomimetics, efficient cooling technology, microchannel boiling and condensation, heat pipes, jet impingement, film cooling, elelctrohydrodynamic, low carbon vehicle thermal management, power electronics, battery thermal management, HVAC in the built environment, thermofluids
Dr Jie Zhu
Energy efficiency, vapour compression, heat pump, desiccant refrigeration, evaporative cooling, co-and tri-generations, thermal energy storage and recovery, building energy performance simulation and improvement, energy policy study, renewable energy (solar, geothermal, wind)
Visit Food, Water, Waste website Back to the top
Professor Rachel Gomes (Head of group)
Water quality, micropollutants (pharmaceuticals, antibiotics, metals, antimicrobial resistance, microplastics), wastewater treatment, bioprocesses, novel adsorbents, enzymes, waste to resource, circular economy, modelling and analytics
Dr Asma Ahmed
Biological wastewater treatment (industrial effluents), biofilm-based processes, fungal biomaterials, mycoproteins, microalgal carbon capture, biomass valorisation, industrial biotechnology
Dr Mike Clifford
Appropriate technology, sustainable materials, biogas, cookstoves, natural fibre composites, engineering education research
Dr Oliver Fisher
Circular economy, AI, machine learning, process modelling, digital manufacturing, bioprocesses, techno-economic analysis, Life cycle assessment, Equality, diversity and inclusion
Dr Helena Gomes
Environmental remediation, resource recovery, wastewater treatment, contaminated soils, waste management
Dr Konstantina Kourmentza
Microbial fermentation, bioprocess engineering, waste and biomass valorisation, bio-based products, biofuels, materials science
Dr Simone Morra
Enzymes, metalloenzymes, iron sulfur proteins, hydrogenases, bio-hydrogen, protein chemistry, biochemistry, bioinorganic chemistry, mutagenesis, enzyme engineering, protein purification, spectroscopy, energy metabolism, anaerobic metabolism, fermentation, industrial biotechnology, microbiology
Dr Anca Pordea
Biocatalysis, enzyme engineering, (artificial) metalloenzymes
Visit George Green Institute for Electromagnetic Research website Back to the top
Professor Ana Vukovic (Head of group)
Electromagnetics, optoelectronics and microwave
Dr Georgios Dimitrakis
Industrial microwave heating, microwave, materials interactions, dielectrics, insulation breakdown, microwave plasma, dielectric spectroscopy, process monitoring, microwave sensors, hyperthermia
Professor Steve Greedy
Experimental electromagnetics, computational electromagnetics, electromagnetic compatibility, electromagnetic coexistence, smart wireless infrastructure, wireless communications
Dr Sendy Phang
Nonlinear optics, neuromorphic photonics, artificial photonic material, optical sensing
Visit Human Factors website Back to the top
Professor Donal McNally (Head of group)
Spinal biomechanics, biomechanical evaluation, implant design, impact biomechanics, injury mechanisms
Professor Tim Heath
Urban design, public realm, public spaces, place-making, people and places
Dr Setia Hermawati
Digital manufacturing, user centred-design, usability, applied ergonomics in developing countries
Dr Rob Houghton
Cognition in context, systems ergonomics, future work systems, human reliability, digital interfaces and human-machine interfaces, citizen science
Dr Glyn Lawson
Human factors, ergonomics, virtual reality
Dr Ed Morris
Digital mental health monitoring, biomedical image processing, sensor networks
Dr Peter Rutherford
Education for sustainability, building thermal performance, acoustics, psychoacoustics
Dr Brendan Ryan
Human factors in railways, railway trespass and suicide, accident and incident investigation, evaluation of safety interventions, inclusive design and passenger experience
Professor Sarah Sharples
Human factors and digital technologies, human factors in future transport, technologies to support healthcare, digital manufacturing, intelligent mobility
Dr Samuel Smith
Movement analysis, biomechanics, motion capture, musculoskeletal modelling
Dr Florian Wiedmann
Sustainable urbanism, urban transformation, urban renewal, emerging cities, mega cities, housing, space syntax, transit-oriented development, urban design management, urban acupuncture
Dr Robin Wilson
Acoustics of complex structures, porous materials, structural power flow measurement techniques
Visit Low Carbon Energy and Resources Technologies website Back to the top
Professor Hao Liu (Head of group)
Low carbon fuels, energy resources, distributed combined heat and power generation, co-generation, biomass technologies including combustion, gasification and pyrolysis, clean fossil fuel technologies, carbon capture technologies, materials, sustainable waste management and disposal, hydrogen production from biomass, waste, fossil fuels, Integration of renewable, cleaner fossil energy systems into buildings and built environment, fluidised beds
Professor Eleanor Binner
Microwave processing, biomass valorisation, plastics recycling, soil remediation, microwave-assisted extraction, pectin extraction
Dr Ioanna Dimitriou
Process modelling, process optimisation, techno-economic analysis of low-carbon energy technologies including carbon capture and utilisation, thermochemical and biochemical conversion of biomass and waste
Dr Fatih Gulec
Industrial decarbonisation, carbon capture, advanced combustion, chemical looping technologies, integrated carbon capture and utilisation, clean energy conversion, BECCS, net-zero emission, negative emission, biomass processing including torrefaction, pyrolysis, hydrothermal conversion, gasification
Professor Jonathan McKechnie
Life cycle assessment, life cycle analysis, techno-economic analysis, evaluating emerging process technologies, materials and energy products, waste valorisation and circular economy, policy analysis, biofuels, waste
Dr Will Meredith
Biochar, pyrogenic carbon, biomass conversion, petroleum geochemistry, oil biodegradation, analytical pyrolysis
Professor Colin Snape
Greenhouse gas removal, biochar, carbon capture, pyrolysis, hydrothermal conversion
Professor Yupeng Wu
Solar façade (smart window, PV, concentrating PV, transparent insulation materials), thermal energy storage, district heating system, building energy simulation, integration of renewable, cleaner fossil energy systems into buildings and built environment
Visit Mechanical and Aerospace Systems website Back to the top
Professor Carol Eastwick (Head of group)
Computational fluid dynamics (CFD), experimental fluid dynamics, analytical approaches to thermofluid design, two phase flow, thermal management, rotating machines
Dr Stephen Ambrose
Computational modelling of multiphase flows in aero-engine oil systems, thermal management of bearing chambers and gearboxes, CFD verification and validation, gas-liquid flows, turbulence modelling, multiscale modelling using coupling algorithms, lattice boltzmann modelling, finite volume methods for multi-phase flow
Dr Mohammedreza Amoozgar
Structural dynamics, vibration, aeroelasticity of fixed and rotary wing, morphing aircraft, aerospace structures, composite and multifunctional structures
Professor Chris Bennett
Computational mechanics, non-linear finite element analysis (FEA), structural integrity, welded structures, contact mechanics, plasticity, fatigue, room and high temperature material testing and characterisation, additive material characterisation, process modelling, phase transformations, residual stress prediction, residual stress measurement, inertia friction welding, direct energy deposition, nanoindentation, FE modeling of depth-sensing indentation inverse analysis
Professor Seamus Garvey
Rotordynamics, machine vibration and dynamics, mathematics of vibration, integrating energy storage, dynamics of coupled electrical and mechanical systems, active control of machine vibrations using magnetic bearings
Dr Chris Hyde
Applied creep mechanics, mechanical testing, material modelling and lifing, high temperature materials, additive manufacturing, critical application
Professor Kathy Johnson
Application of experimental and computational (CFD) approaches to the flow and heat transfer in aeroengine transmissions elements and systems including high speed imaging, application of CFD in thermofluids engineering applications particularly multiphase systems
Dr Stewart McWilliam
MEMS systems, thermoelastic damping, reliability of structures subjected to extreme events, Fokker Planck Kolmogorov equation
Dr Humberto Medina
Aerodynamics, boundary layer transition, turbulence modelling, particulate matter filtration, unmanned aerial vehicles, wind turbine aerodynamics
Dr Benjamin Rothwell
Thermo Elastic- Hydrodynamic lubrication (TEHL), Visco-plastic modelling, multiphysics modelling, journal and tilting pad bearings, machine and deep learning techniques
Visit Nottingham Centre for Geomechanics website Back to the top
Dr Charles Heron
Cyclic behaviour of soil-structure interfaces, geotechnical centrifuge testing, element testing
Professor Glenn McDowell
Micromechanics of granular materials, constitutive modelling, ballast mechanics, discrete element modelling, mechanics of clay
Dr Luke Prendergast
Vibration-based damage detection, soil-structure interaction, offshore foundations, structural health monitoring, vehicle-bridge interaction
Visit Nottingham Geospatial Institute website Back to the top
Dr Paul Blunt
Acquisition and tracking of GNSS signals, space applications of GNSS, interference and multi-path mitigation technique, modulation, coding and multiplexing of GNSS signals
Dr Chantal Cappelletti
CubeSat, small satellites, space systems, biomedical research in space, space debris, AODCS
Dr Stephen Grebby
Geological mapping, natural resources exploration, mapping and monitoring of geohazards, satellite, airborne and ground based Earth Oberservation techniques
Dr James Pinchin
Design and application of human tracking systems, movement model supported navigation, ubiquitous positioning technologies, position and orientation determination
Dr Panagiotis Psimoulis
GNSS applications, deformation monitoring related to structures and geohazards, GNSS reflectometry, spatio-temporal analysis of monitoring data, sensors integration for navigation and monitoring applications, geodetic timeseries modelling
Dr Nishanth Pushparaj
Astrodynamics, dynamical systems, space mission design, spacecraft trajectory optimisation, autonomous guidance navigation and control, interplanetary small-body exploration, spacecraft systems design, mechatronics, unmanned systems
Visit Nottingham Transportation Engineering Centre website Back to the top
Professor Gordon Airey (Head of group)
Micro-structural and mechanical properties of asphalt mixtures
Professor Nick Dodd
Coastal dynamics, coastal engineering, morphodynamics, beach nourishment, nearshore physical oceanography
Dr Anand Sreeram
Pavement materials, smart pavements, asphalt, chemomechanics, sustainable infrastructure
Dr Nick Thom
Design and analysis of pavements and railway trackbeds, materials for pavements and railway trackbeds
Visit Optics and Photonics website Back to the top
Dr Steve Bull
High-power lasers, laser diodes, degradation and reliability studies
Dr Peter Christopher
Space, satellites, nanosatellites, optics, fourier optics, holography, computer-generated holography, manufacturing, additive manufacturing, lithography, photolithography
Dr Ricardo Concalves Correia
Fibre optic sensing, pressure sensing, healthcare sensors development
Dr George Gordon
Optics, optical fibres, metasurfaces, endoscopes, medical imaging, artificial intelligence
Professor Barrie Hayes-Gill
Medical device, regulations (UKCA, CE, MDD, MDR, FDA 510k), electronic engineering, ECG, fibre optic sensors, wearables, photoplethysmography, oxygen saturation, SpO2, electronics manufacturing, optoelectronics, analogue electronics, signal processing, fetal (foetal) monitoring, cardiotocography (CTG), fetal heart rate, contractions, child birth, newborn monitoring, technology transfer
Dr Chenyang He
Optical sensing, physiological measurements, biochemical measurements, healthcare applications
Dr Mitchell Kenney
Optics, metamaterials, fabrication, metasurfaces, imaging
Professor Serhiy Korposh
Nanoscale bioelectronics and biophotonics
Professor Melissa Mather
Optical microscopy, quantum sensing, multi-modal microscopy, nitrogen vacancy defects, biological imaging, biosensing, ultrasonics, metabolic imaging and sensing, biofluid analysis
Professor Steve Morgan
Biomedical engineering, optical fibre sensing for healthcare, smart medical devices, medical sensors, monitoring in critical care
Dr Richard Smith
Laser ultrasound, non-destructive evaluation, material characterisation, spatially resolved acoustic spectroscopy, imaging, instrumentation and sensing, picosecond laser ultrasound
Dr Kevin Webb
Imaging, microscopy, fluid transport physiology, biosensing, hydrodynamics
Visit Power Electronics, Machines and Control website Back to the top
Professor Patrick Wheeler (Head of group)
Power electronics, power electronic converters, more electric aircraft, power converters for power systems, all electric aircraft, transportation electrification, electric aircraft propulsion, electric superbikes, matrix converters, multi-level/modular power converters, use of SiC/GaN power semiconductors, AC motor drives
Dr Rishad Ahmed
Integrated power converter, wide bandgap devices, resonant converter, high-speed drive, electric vehicle charger, electric vehicle DCDC converter, packaging of semiconductor devices, aerospace power electronics, EV battery health management
Professor Serhiy Bozhko
Aircraft electrification, onboard power systems, power electronics, distribution, management, control, optimisation, modelling, simulation
Dr Tom Cox
Electrical machines, electromagnetic launch systems, linear machines, induction machines and transportation systems
Dr Michele Degano
Permanent magnet machines, synchronous reluctance motors, high power density machines, motor design and optimisation, electrification of transports, hybrid and electric aerospace, automotive, high-power high-voltage machines
Dr Paul Evans
Computational modelling of power electronics, thermal management in power electronics, applications for wide-bandgap power semiconductor devices
Professor Christopher Gerada
Electrical machines, electrical drives, transport electrification, high performance motor drives for aircraft propulsion, high speed machines, electric vehicles, machines and drives for electric vehicles, more electric aircraft, integrated drives, thermal management, hybrid-electric aircraft, electrical machines and drives aanufacturing, high torque density electrical machines, advanced electrical drive control, fault tolerant machines and drives, magnetic materials, insulation systems, actuators, IP Strategy, IP litigation
Professor Mark Johnson
Power semiconductor devices, power device packaging, reliability and thermal management, power module technology
Dr Christian Klumpner
Design, control and evaluation of novel, advanced power electronic converter topologies for various applications where fast control of power and/or high conversion efficiency
Dr Ke Li
Power semiconductor devices (silicon and wide bandgap) characterisation and modelling, power semiconductor devices reliability and condition monitoring, power electronics electro-thermal and electromagnetic compatibility modelling, high speed current measurement, transportation electrification
Dr Ying Li
High frequency power electronics, wide band gap devices application, DC-DC conversion, resonant power converters, power modules design, renewable energy applications
Dr Tabish Mir
Power electronics, motor drives, control of ac motors, wide band gap power converters, power electronics in transport decarbonisation
Professor Marco Rivera
Power electronics, power electronic converters, matrix converters, multi-level/modular power converters, AC motor drives, control of power electronic converters and rrives, renewable energy, microgrids
Dr Surojit Sen
Electrification of automotive powertrains, sustainability in transportation, electric vehicles, electric vehicle battery design, sustainable electric vehicle powertrains, reversible process in manufacturing of electric vehicle batteries, high efficiency electric vehicle powertrains, vehicles systems modelling and optimisation, vehicle drivecycle optimisation, motorsport engineering, vehicle lightweighting, formula student, FSAE, additive manufacturing in motorsport applications
Dr Sharmila Sumsurooah
Net-zero aviation, hybrid and all electric aircraft, robust stability, design and optimisation of electrical power systems, aerospace electrical and electronics engineering
Dr Gaurang Vakil
Analysis, design and optimisation of high power density electrical machines, high speed high frequency machines and synchronous generators, magnetic material characterisation and their applications
Dr Adam Walker
Electrical machine design, electrical machine manufacture, magnetic components, traction applications, electric vehicles
Dr Alan Watson
Power electronics and control for high power industrial applications
Professor Tao Yang
High-speed high-power electrical drives, high-efficiency power electronics converters, micro-grid system control and stability analysis, power electronics and electric drive design using artificial intelligent technologies
Dr Minglei You
Artificial Intelligence and advanced information and communication technology (ICT) in tntegrated energy systems, internet of things, smart grid, smart city, signal processing and wireless communication networks
Dr Tianjie Zou
High speed permanent magnet and reluctance type motors, high torque density direct drive motors, high power density motors and drives for aerospace propulsion and EV traction, advanced manufacturing technology for electrical machines, multi-physics domain modelling and optimisation of electrical machines, novel electromagnetic field and AC winding theory for electrical machines.
Visit Resilience Engineering website Back to the top
Dr Rasa Remenyte-Prescott (Head of group)
Fault diagnostics, asset management, risk, reliability, resilience, healthcare safety, healthcare efficiency
Professor John Andrews
Risk analysis, asset management, system reliability and availability, maintenance modelling, resilience engineering, safety modelling
Dr Darren Prescott
Railway track asset management, modelling maintenance in railway infrastructure management
Dr Rundong Yan
Risk assessment, reliability analysis, resilience analysis, simulation modelling, complex system modelling, optimisation, nuclear power safety, offshore wind power, infrastructure asset management

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/engineering/research/research-directory.aspx:
Engineering.
Architecture.
Design.
This is the place where we shape the real world.
Across our research institutes, groups, and centres we’re turning world-class research into reality.
Our internationally leading experts are addressing local issues, solving industrial challenges, and contributing to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
We work closely with businesses - from SMEs to multinationals - locally, nationally and internationally.
We offer dedicated services for industry through our business engagement units, and opportunities for consultancy, contract and collaborative research, and use of our sector-leading research facilities through our research institutes, groups and centres.
Collaborate with us and we’ll help you to discover, innovate and grow.
You can search by keyword or filter by a specific category.
Categories are split to show our:
Please add a keyword.
The Advanced Manufacturing Technology research group is at the forefront of manufacturing technologies and systems research.
Working across the aerospace, healthcare and manufacturing sectors, we have expertise in biomedical and digital manufacturing, advanced robotics, metrology, metal forming and material processing, and machine and condition monitoring.
The Advanced Materials research group is investigating novel materials manufacturing, processing, and characterisation.
Working across sectors including energy, healthcare, aerospace, and automotive, we have expertise in biomaterials, energy materials, microwave process engineering, and surface and interface engineering.
The Architecture, Culture and Tectonics research group explores the effects of building design and layout, public realm and landscape on our social and cultural interactions.
Working across different scales and contexts, we have expertise in the history and theory of architectural and urban culture, as well as the design, modelling and manufacturing challenges of building systems.
The Buildings, Energy and Environment research group focuses on reducing energy use in the built environment, mitigating the impacts of climate change on buildings, and enhancing the well-being and productivity of building users.
With expertise in sustainable building design, energy technologies, urban living, and smart and innovative materials, we aim to inform the sustainable practice of buildings and engineering.
The Centre for Additive Manufacturing is at the forefront of additive manufacturing - 3D printing – techniques.
Undertaking fundamental and applied research, we are investigating the underpinning processes, materials, and computational methods for multi-material and multifunctional additive manufacturing.
The Centre for Healthcare Technologies (CHT) address major healthcare challenges through technology innovations, supporting the rapid translation of scientific discoveries into healthcare adoption.
A collaboration between the University of Nottingham and Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust, the CHT also incorporates the Centre for Healthcare Equipment & Technology Adoption (CHEATA).
The Centre for Structural Engineering and Informatics is combining construction with the information technology revolution to extend the lifespan of existing structures and improve resilience against hazards.
With expertise in advanced construction materials, engineering design and construction, structural and computational mechanics, and wind engineering and structural dynamics, we are helping to build and connect the cities of the future.
The Composites research group is an internationally leading research group.
Working across sectors including automotive, aerospace, power generation, wind energy and healthcare, we have expertise in biocomposites, textile composites, composites manufacturing, mechanical and failure analysis, and recycling.
The Environmental Fluid Mechanics and Geoprocesses research group has expertise in geology and geoprocesses, natural hazards, oceans and atmosphere, coasts, lakes and sediments, and experimental fluid mechanics.
The Fluids and Thermal Engineering research group focuses on understanding fluid flow phenomena with expertise in experimental fluid mechanics, computational fluid dynamics, two-phase flow, heat transfer enhancement, and thermodynamics.
We work across a range of industrial applications including flow assurance and control, engines and combustion, refrigeration and air-conditioning, and industrial chemical processes.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/Engineering/Research/Research-facilities.aspx:
Multi-disciplinary research facilities to spark innovation
Welcome to our sector-leading facilities
We have an abundance of specialist, multi-million pound facilities which are finding solutions to global challenges.
We're constantly upgrading our buildings and technology to meet the latest research and industry needs.
Where appropriate, we also use research facilities for teaching projects - but please note the exact facilities and equipment you will use depends on your specific course.
From power electronics and advanced manufacturing, to sustainable energy technology and healthcare technologies, we have three research institutes, eight research centres and 20 research groups .
This pioneering £24m building on Jubilee Campus hosts our Institute for Advanced Manufacturing (IfAM), shaping the future of UK manufacturing through ground-breaking research projects.
Real families and businesses live and work on this award-winning, £1.9m research project our University Park Campus, which is visited by over 3,000 people a year to see how energy efficient technologies in the seven houses will help reach carbon neutral goals.
Purpose-built for our Power Electronics, Machines and Control research group , this impressive £40m facility is home to three tailor-made labs used for internationally renowned research and powerful industrial collaborations .
Combining two innovative sustainable methodologies (Passivhaus and BREEAM), this striking £7m building accelerates energy industry innovation through research.
From harvesting and storing wind energy, to developing new materials for hydrogen storage.
This dedicated facility contains unique laboratories to progress research in electrification, hydrogen propulsion systems, and advanced manufacturing for industry use.
Based on the University of Nottingham Innovation Park, it will accelerate the translation of zero carbon research into high-impact commercial and policy solutions.
This impressive £3.9m building on Jubilee Campus is home to Nottingham Geospatial Institute , an international centre of excellence on satellite navigation and positioning systems.
It’s also used for teaching students.
This ground-breaking £6.5m building contains the world’s first zero-carbon laboratory complex and facilitates carbon energy research activities.
State-of-the-art facilities including a smart grid, prototyping hall and the UK’s first green hydrogen refuelling facility.
"Technology is constantly evolving, so we continually update research and teaching facilities to be cutting-edge."
— Mick Winfield, Infrastructure Manager (Faculty of Engineering)
Engineering and architecture
Explore our virtual campus tour
Study engineering and architecture

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/science/schools-centres-and-institutes/research-centres.aspx:
The University of Nottingham University Park Nottingham, NG7 2RD

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/science/services-for-business/index.aspx:
Across the faculty, there are various ways in which we are offering valuable services and knowledge transfer to businesses and building strong links with industry.
We have technology, knowledge, research and people that can be utilised by companies to aid their processes and improve the way they work.
We want to understand your firm and to help you tackle the real-life issues facing your sector today.
We want to develop partnerships with you to ensure long-term benefits to your organisation.
You can find out about the services offered by our individual schools on their school websites.
The School of Chemistry Business Partnership Unit (BPU) stimulates and supports innovation at the academic-business interface.
The Technology Transfer Office commercialises technologies which have been developed through research.
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships is a governmental scheme where firms can makes use of graduates' skills.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/vet/service-for-business/nutritional-analysis.aspx:
Our service provides you with facilities and support for detailed analysis of animal nutrition
We provide laboratory support for:
tissue mineral analysis
grass, forage feed and water mineral analysis
blood trace element and metabolite analysis (energy, protein, liver)
plasma inorganic iodine
urine mineral analysis (iodine and macrominerals)
7.
research and trial work
Submission forms are included in the service details but are also available independently.
Details of packaging, tube types and samples volumes are available in our service guide.
NUVetNA School of Veterinary Medicine and Science University of Nottingham Sutton Bonington Campus Loughborough LE12 5RD
Tel: 07976 906258 or 0115 9516447 Email: nuvetna@nottingham.ac.uk
Download our service guide
telephone: 0115 9516447 email: nuvetna@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/vet/service-for-business/veterinary-pathology-service/index.aspx:
We offer a range of pathology and biopsy services for dog, cat, equine, production, exotic and zoo animals
Please contact the relevant team to make your enquiry.
Pathology enquiries for companion animal and equine.
Email the companion and equine team
Pathology enquiries for farm animal and poultry.
Email the farm and poultry team
University of Nottingham Sutton Bonington Campus College Road Sutton Bonington Leicestershire LE12 5RA

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/mhs/facilities/index.aspx:
Facilities in the faculty are located across our four schools .
We have spaces for teaching and learning and specialist research , as well as access to University hospital sites.
University of Nottingham Medical School Queen's Medical Centre Nottingham, NG7 2UH

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/business/who-we-are/centres-and-institutes/hgi/ingenuity-lab/ingenuity-lab-benefits.aspx:
The Ingenuity Lab offers support, services and mentoring by experienced entrepreneurs and specialist consultants.
The Lab community brings members together to develop peer-to-peer networks as well as offers a regular timetable of events to challenge perceptions, offer greater understanding, and develop the practice of entrepreneurship.
From business advice and mentoring from expert professionals to networking opportunities and desk space, our dynamic community of student and alumni entrepreneurs can get the help they need at the Lab.
Here's just some of the benefits to being an Ingenuity Lab member:
Our advisory surgeries are run by our team of business advisors - industry professionals who offer confidential advice in areas such as law, accounting, marketing and brand development.
Our experienced business mentors provide you with valuable insights on how to kick-start your venture.
Our events run throughout the year, and range from seminars led by industry experts, to informal networking opportunities where members can get together and share their experiences.
The Ingenuity Lab Ambassador Scheme is for those whose business has developed beyond the start-up stage, and who can inspire and mentor our next generation of Venture members.
Benefits include:
our advanced business training programme
funding opportunities
a supportive peer network
internships
a dedicated mentor
a dedicated workspace in the Lab
Collaborating with the Small Business Charter the Haydn Green Institute has recruited a number of Entrepreneurs in Residence (EIRs) to support engagement between the University and local SMEs, entrepreneurs and students.
The EIRs engage in activities including mentoring Ingenuity Lab businesses and SMEs, delivering business training seminars and aiding academics in their research.
With over 50 EIRs registered with us, we are able to call on their wealth of experience to support our Lab's start-up businesses covering important topics such as:
If you are from a Nottingham-based SME or are part of a University of Nottingham student or alumni business, and require business advice, please get in touch with us to request a meeting with an EIR.
The Ingenuity Lab is a brilliant network of diverse people and ideas who are united by the belief that we can make positive changes happen.
Jubilee Campus Nottingham NG8 1BB
Email: ingenuity.enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/social-sciences/schools/index.aspx:
The Faculty of Social Sciences is comprised of seven major schools.
Our schools offer a wide range of undergraduate and postgraduate courses, as well as PhD and research opportunities.
An international leader in finance and management education and a pioneer in entrepreneurship, innovation and sustainability.
Our courses combine all the core analytical and quantitative techniques required by modern economics graduates.
The School of Education has a long history of both teacher education and adult education that stretches back over 100 years.
The School of Geography offers an unparalleled environment for the study of a vast and diverse array of geographical topics.
We value excellence in teaching coupled with a strong research base and have a broad range of teaching and research activities.
We cover many diverse subject areas in contemporary politics.
Our courses offer you the opportunity to explore how societies work - and what can be done when they don't.
lz-foss-core-ops@exmail.nottingham.ac.uk Current student enquiries

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/CLAS/Departments/culturalmediaandvisualstudies/Research/VIP-Studio/Virtual-and-Immersive-Production-Studio.aspx:
Virtual and Immersive Production
The Virtual & Immersive Production Studio is an innovation and research driven production studio with state-of-the-art sound and vision performance capture capabilities located at University of Nottingham’s King’s Meadow campus.
Founded by a team of creative, technical and curiosity led experts, the studio supports a range of researchers, artists, SMEs, creatives and community groups to develop unique immersive experiences in film, TV, games, performance arts production and audience engagement.
Utilising cutting-edge performance capture technology, the team work with partners to create a wide range of meaningful and exciting digital and immersive experiences for customers, visitors and audiences.
Projects include immersive theatre experiences, interactive AR applications, mixed media gaming experiences, digital twin performances, VR training applications, VR video dance and circus experiences, audio augmented photography, projection mapping, and many more virtual and immersive focused collaborations.
For all enquiries, please get in touch with our friendly team.
Email: vipstudio@nottingham.ac.uk
The VIP Studio is a creative and collaborative space involving researchers from across disciplines and departments.
Find out more about our research community and some of the world-leading research they are involved with.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/english/research/research-facilities/psycholinguistic-and-experimental-research/index.aspx:
The School of English has three psycholinguistics labs, two of which house Eyelink 1000+ eye-tracking systems from SR Research.
Undergraduate, masters and PhD students all utilise the labs for psycholinguistic tests, recruiting participants for eye-tracking experiments and more.
To find out how our students use our labs and eye-tracking equipment during their degrees, take a look at some of our research lab pages and student profiles for further insight.
In our labs, we:
Undergraduate students
PhD students
Trent Building The University of Nottingham University Park, Nottingham NG7 2RD
telephone: +44 (0) 115 951 5900 email: english-enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/arts/research/research-environment.aspx:
A winning combination of personal support, facilities and collections enables our researchers to produce work of international impact.
Advocacy, excellence and partnerships
Development, support and opportunities
Project development, support and funding
Supporting digital research across the arts and humanities
Measuring how we read and respond to language
Incubating innovation in production and audience engagement
Scientific exploration of physical remains
Composition, performance, recording, experimentation
Analyse documents using a range of text mining tools
Unique collection of Cuban publications
Historic archives and preservation
National collection for place names research
Research and public engagement with the past
Specialist publications, scores, recordings and databases
University of Nottingham University Park Nottingham, NG7 2RD
For course and admissions enquiries see our enquiry page For Faculty contacts see our contacts page

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/case-studies/murphy-and-son:
Murphy and Son
Murphy and Son has been supporting the world’s leading breweries and beverage producers for over 130 years.
Built on more than a century of research and innovation, they provide trusted product solutions and technical expertise to help brewers, winemakers, cidermakers, and distillers achieve consistent, high-quality results.
To support Murphy and Son’s ambition to be the number one provider of technical knowledge in the global beverage industry, the Nottingham-based company sought to develop natural, eco-friendly antioxidants for beer stability that could be manufactured locally in Nottingham and exported to customers worldwide.
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) are a three-way collaboration between a UK-based business or charity, a research organisation, and a qualified graduate known as a KTP Associate, who has the capability to lead a strategic business project.
Spanning two years and nine months, the collaboration saw Murphy and Son partnered with two consecutive KTP Associates.
Experienced brewer and KTP Associate William Keeble ran the project for the first 17 months, followed by food engineer Aline Brito , who continued the partnership for the remainder of the project.
Between them, they conducted literature reviews, data analysis, antioxidant testing, and an ageing study to assess beer colloidal and flavour stability – all under the supervision of brewing expert Professor David Cook from the School of Biosciences at the University of Nottingham.
Through this project, the team achieved several major milestones:
The KTP strengthened Murphy and Son’s relationship with the University of Nottingham, leading to the relocation of its customer-facing lab and research operations to the university’s International Centre for Brewing Science (ICBS), a pilot brewing facility at Sutton Bonington Campus.
For the university, the KTP has built a strong partnership between the ICBS and Murphy and Son, leading to the creation of the Murphy and Son Fellowship at Nottingham.
This has already supported new research projects and PhD-level studies.
As Professor David Cook, explains:
“The Knowledge Transfer Partnership has enabled us to establish a highly productive and collaborative relationship between the International Centre for Brewing Science and Murphy and Son.
The creation of the Murphy and Son Fellowship at Nottingham has been instrumental in driving forward innovative research in brewing science, especially in the areas of yeast and fermentation.
Thanks to this partnership, we have already launched eight new postgraduate research projects, helping to deliver real-world impact through advanced scientific study.”
New brewing protocols for antioxidant additions developed during the project will support future research.
The close collaboration means Murphy and Son and the University of Nottingham now share strategic plans and have identified future research priorities.
During the project, KTP Associate Aline represented the collaboration at several international conferences, with the work expected to lead to peer-reviewed publications.
Aline shared, “The KTP has been a fantastic opportunity to grow professionally while tackling real-world challenges in product development.
Representing our work at international conferences – including at Murphy and Son’s stand in the U.S.
– helped build valuable connections and enhanced the department’s and the company's reputation.
The most rewarding moment was hearing directly from a brewer about the success he’d had with our product.
I’m proud that this work will lead to peer-reviewed publications and create a lasting impact.”
Discover what inspired Aline to become a KTP Associate on the university’s careers blog .
Collaborate with us
With a network of over 3,000 researchers spanning multiple sectors, we connect businesses with the sharpest minds to develop cutting-edge solutions that transform industries and communities across the UK and beyond.
Find out more about collaborating with us

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/case-studies/trelleborg-applied-technologies:
Trelleborg Applied Technologies
Trelleborg Applied Technologies specialises in advanced material solutions, including polyurethane, glass microspheres, epoxy tooling, and engineered rubber products.
The company delivers high-performance, quality-assured materials for demanding environments – from deep-sea to aerospace applications.
As an industry leader in sustainability and in support of the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals, the Retford-based firm identified a clear need for a more sustainable approach to polyurethane (PU) manufacturing – one that enables the recovery, reuse, and recycling of materials without compromising performance or quality.
To accelerate innovation in sustainable materials, Trelleborg has launched Polymers for Tomorrow – a dedicated task force focused on forging partnerships in three key areas: bio-based materials, regenerated and recycled materials, and new polymer formulations.
By collaborating with academic researchers, start-ups and suppliers, Trelleborg aims to enhance circularity and drive the sustainable production and use of advanced materials.
Trelleborg Applied Technologies’ Innovation Director, Adam Nevin , is no stranger to the KTP process – having originally joined the company in 2018 as a KTP Associate before progressing to lead the Innovation Team.
Over a 19-month period, the KTP saw Trelleborg Applied Technologies partnered with chemical engineer and project manager Rebecca Randle , under the supervision of Professor Peter Licence – Head of the School of Chemistry and Director of the GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) Carbon Neutral Laboratory and Professor Simon Woodward – Co-Director, EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Resilient Chemistry , both at the University of Nottingham.
The project focused on life cycle assessment (LCA) modelling of Trelleborg Applied Technologies’ internal products to evaluate the carbon footprint of existing materials and processes.
These were then benchmarked against more sustainable alternatives, including carbon-negative raw materials, recycled content, and cold-cure versus oven-cure techniques, as part of a broader initiative to embed sustainable thinking across the business.
The LCA also revealed that a significant portion of Trelleborg Applied Technologies’ PU waste could, in fact, be reprocessed into a usable thermoplastic.
For the remaining non-recyclable materials, viable cross-linkers were identified to enhance material recovery potential.
Speaking about the project Professor Licence shared:
“ This KTP has delivered real, measurable impact – not only advancing sustainable practices at Trelleborg, but also enriching our teaching and research.
It aligns strongly with the University of Nottingham’s commitment to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and demonstrates how academic collaboration can drive meaningful industrial innovation.”
The collaboration has delivered significant, measurable benefits to Trelleborg Applied Technologies.
Most notably, the project uncovered that a substantial proportion of the company’s processed PU waste can be reprocessed into usable thermoplastic materials, presenting a clear opportunity to reduce production waste by up to 25% and support sustainability and cost-efficiency goals.
The introduction of LCA modelling has transformed decision-making processes.
By enabling data-driven comparisons of materials and procedures, LCA has allowed the company to justify resource-efficient and environmentally responsible strategies.
This shift toward evidence-based sustainability is expected to enhance operational efficiency and contribute to long-term profitability.
Becky remains at Trelleborg Applied Technologies on a permanent contract as a Project Manager, transitioning early from her role as KTP Associate to deliver a substantial R&D project for the company.
Speaking about the experience, Becky explained:
“I found the KTP to be the perfect crossover from academia to industry.
Seeing all the different elements of working in both allowed me to grow my skillset and find whole new development areas.
The personal development fund and residential training were invaluable and really allowed me to seek out specific training and personalise my development plan.”
The KTP was successfully completed by KTP Associate and postdoctoral green chemistry graduate, Jessica Streets, who joined Trelleborg for the remainder of the project.
The overall experience has led Trelleborg Applied Technologies to continue this work, further enriching its Sustainable Development Goals.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/case-studies/siemens-energy:
Siemens Energy
Siemens Energy , a global leader in energy technology with over 150 years of innovation, is committed to making energy more sustainable, reliable, and affordable.
Operating in 90 countries, the company supports the transition to cleaner energy through advancements in both conventional and renewable power, grid technologies, and industrial electrification.
For over a decade, Siemens Energy and Siemens Energy Industrial Turbomachinery have collaborated with the University of Nottingham to advance its heat transfer and cooling technologies.
In this latest partnership, Siemens Energy aimed to further its sustainability goals by decarbonising its fleet of gas turbines.
To support this, the company needed a methodology to accurately and rapidly analyse the heat transfer and flow performance of porous Additive Manufacturing (AM) structures within high-temperature gas turbine designs.
Over the course of 12 months this KTP saw Siemens Energy partnered with mechanical power engineer, Dr Abdallah Ahmed supervised by Dr Xiaofeng Zheng Assistant Professor and in Building Services Engineering in the Faculty of Engineering at the University of Nottingham.
The project began with a comprehensive review of existing literature to identify the best Triply Periodic Minimal Surfaces (TPMS) structures for analysis.
Further numerical investigations were conducted by Dr Ahmed and the team using Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) software to deepen their understanding of the heat transfer and flow performance of these structures.
The project delivered significant advancements in understanding the thermal and hydraulic properties of TPMS structures, unlocking their potential for widespread engineering applications.
The results provided key insights into how these parameters affect performance and helped establish mathematical relationships essential for quick evaluations using in-house software.
These findings lay a strong foundation for the development of more efficient heat exchangers and related technologies, driving innovation in energy systems and beyond.
his KTP has significantly enhanced Siemens’ technical expertise, greatly reducing the time needed to select and parameterise the optimal lattice structure for specific applications.
Additionally, it has supported workforce growth at Siemens by creating new thermal engineering roles to address the increasing demand.
"This KTP has been a highly valuable experience.
Working alongside Siemens Energy on such a cutting-edge project has p rovided me with invaluable industry experience and a deep understanding of the challenges and opportunities within the gas turbine sector.
The project has allowed me to apply my academic knowledge to real-world engineering problems, develop crucial skills in computational fluid dynamics and data analysis, and contribute to Siemens Energy's efforts in developing more sustainable and efficient energy solutions.
I am incredibly grateful for this opportunity and the support I received from both Siemens Energy and the University of Nottingham." Dr Abdallah Ahmed KTP Associate, Siemens Energy
The collaboration between the University of Nottingham and Siemens Energy has also significantly enhanced the university’s research capabilities by addressing real-world technical challenges and fostering impactful, practical studies, while contributing to the university’s Sustainable Development Goals .
"This partnership has significantly bolstered the University of Nottingham’s reputation for impactful, real-world research, while creating a strong foundation for future studies, such as fabricating functional surfaces to enhance heat transfer.
By ensuring our research remains relevant and mutually beneficial, this collaboration has strengthened our connection with Siemens Energy, positioning both organisations for ongoing innovation and success." Dr Xiaofeng Zheng Assistant Professor in Building Services Engineering, University of Nottingham
This partnership has encouraged interdisciplinary collaboration, promoted innovative approaches and built broader networks for future projects and paved the way for high-quality research outputs.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/case-studies/smart-manufacturing-technology-ltd:
Smart Manufacturing Technology Ltd
Smart Manufacturing Technology (SMT) is a global leader in mechanical transmission engineering services and software development.
With over 20 years’ experience of delivering expert technical services for the automotive, industrial, aerospace, energy, and marine sectors, the Nottingham-based firm also provides next-generation software for the design, analysis and optimisation of transmissions.
To support SMT’s ambition to become market leaders in transmission, electric machine and electrified powertrain innovation, the company was looking for support to expand its software portfolio by developing new functionality for the design and analysis of electric machines.
Aiming for a complete solution for the design and analysis of electrified powertrains, with no such tool available on the open market, and with limited in-house knowledge of electric machines, SMT turned to the University of Nottingham’s Power Electronics, Machines and Control (PEMC) Research Group .
This dynamic partnership saw SMT paired with research engineer and KTP Associate, Dr Nisarg Davé.
He was guided by the academic expertise of UoN’s Zero Carbon Cluster lead, Professor Chris Gerada , Professor of Electric Machines at the PEMC, and Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Industrial Strategy, Business Engagement and Impact, and Professor David Gerada , Professor of Electrical Engineering.
Driving the project, Nisarg was embedded within the company to bridge the gap between academia and industry.
Throughout the partnership, the team undertook a series of rigorous tests and validation exercises on electric machines and embedded the acquired knowledge into SMT’s software code capabilities.
Advancements made during the KTP have supported the development of new, specialised software capabilities for designing and analysing electric machines, significantly enhancing SMT’s competitiveness.
Committed to further embedding knowledge into the business, SMT has expanded its electric machines team to meet the growing demands of its services.
Additionally, by collaborating with SMT, the university has gained extensive knowledge in gearbox technologies and the interactions between electrical machines and gearbox systems.
Further enhancing the PEMC’s Research Group’s capabilities and complimenting the university’s Zero Carbon Cluster ambitions in electrification.
"In this KTP we melded the University of Nottingham’s expertise in electrical machines with SMT’s expertise in transmissions to help develop a unique software package suitable for the design and modelling of next-generation electrified powertrains for clean transport.
By translating our research into real-world solutions, we are not only driving economic growth locally in the East Midlands but also making a tangible global impact on the future of sustainability in the journey towards decarbonisation of transport.
The insights gained from this collaboration with SMT supported the development of a software platform which for the first time can co-design transmissions and electric motors whilst capturing the complex interactions between these two key components.
These capabilities open up exciting avenues in achieving electrified powertrains optimised for specific targets such as power density, driveability, cost competitiveness or embedded carbon." Professor David Gerada Professor of Electrical Engineering, University of Nottingham
Nisarg completed his PhD whilst working with SMT, applying his research into electric machines to the project.
During the KTP, he authored and presented a paper on Alternate Current (AC) winding losses at the 2023 International Conference on Electrical Machines and Systems , which won the Best Paper Award.
"Through my two-year KTP experience, I not only supported developing a new business with the application of my technical expertise but also gained invaluable lessons in management and leadership through various training, courses and from SMT.
The insights from colleagues at SMT and the University of Nottingham have been instrumental in advancing my research and development career." Dr Nisarg Davé Research Engineer, SMT
Following the completion of the KTP, Nisarg remained with SMT as a Research Engineer working with the team to further develop SMT’s capabilities.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/case-studies/phenotypeca:
Phenotypeca
Phenotypeca are revolutionising drug development, helping to produce life-saving medicines such as vaccines and therapies for cancer and infectious diseases.
Based at Nottingham’s BioCity, the company develop advanced recombinant protein therapeutics, which are produced using innovative yeast strain engineering and genomics.
In an industry where the use of data brings significant competitive advantage, Phenotypeca identified the need for in-house capabilities for big data analytics and machine learning (ML) to deliver the needed step-change to its operations and increase productivity.
By introducing ML and identifying complex genomic traits to improve yeast strains, called quantitative trait loci (QTL), Phenotypeca projected they could enhance their commercial offering and secure new contracts and high-value intellectual property (IP) manufacturing licenses in a $200 billion global market.
The partnership paired Phenotypeca with data scientist and KTP Associate Yue Hu, guided by Markus Owen , Professor of Mathematical Biology at the University of Nottingham’s Centre for Mathematical Medicine and Biology .
Supported by Professor of Computational Chemistry, Jonathan Hirst and Simon Preston , Professor of Statistics and Applied Mathematics.
With experience in QTL analysis and statistics, Yue was embedded within the company to drive the project forward and bridge the gap between academia and the commercial challenges faced by Phenotypeca.
Previously hampered by the complexity of analysing such a diverse range of data, the partnership has delivered a project that has helped Phenotypeca generate QTLs, IP, and data for predictive modelling and ML, while eliminating much of the complexity in diverse datasets through innovative new approaches.
Building upon previous research at the company, the partnership delivered a highly successful project, providing high efficiency data gathering with continuous feedback to the experimenters to test the predictability of models.
Yue soon grasped the many challenges and complexities of analysing such a diverse range of datasets, and in response to this, through close collaboration, helped develop pioneering new approaches aligned with Phenotypeca’s ambitious commercial strategy.
The KTP has been transformative in informing the yeast strain development process; this has resulted in optimised strains with associated IP, which are the company’s main products.
Yue’s expertise and team approach have led to the development of new practices that have become a cornerstone of Phenotypeca’s business strategy and which are sure to continue long after the project's completion.
The expert knowledge and skills introduced into the company through the KTP have been further embedded, with many technical staff now trained, able to apply the methods, and aware of their power and potential for boosting Phenotypeca’s commercial prospects.
The partnership has also helped future-proof the company by setting the foundations to realise the ultimate goal of ML predictability while capitalising on other capabilities that emerged during the KTP.
Finally, Yue remains at Phenotypeca, having joined the team on a permanent basis leading on QTL analysis and ML projects.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/case-studies/gleeds:
Gleeds
Gleeds is a leading global property and construction consultancy firm.
With over 138 years of experience and expertise, they are renowned for providing expert management, advisory, and cost-effective solutions across the built environment.
In an industry often plagued by cost overruns and delays, Gleeds identified a pressing need for data-driven decision-making to enhance predictability of budgets and improve time efficiency for its cost managers.
To address this issue, Gleeds was keen to develop an advanced data analytics methodology that could offer structured and risk-modelled cost forecasting for new construction projects, enabling the company to remain agile within the marketplace.
The partnership saw Gleeds paired with data scientist and KTP Associate Alexandra Spencer, who was guided by the academic expertise of Sarah Davidson, Professor of Information Management in the Faculty of Engineering , and Dr Grazziela Figueredo, Associate Professor in Health Data Science in the School of Medicine at the University of Nottingham.
Embedded within Gleeds, Alexandra bridged the gap between academia and the challenges of the real world.
Previously dependent on traditional methods of data analysis, the partnership created opportunities for Gleeds to explore advanced technologies used by the university such as machine learning-based extraction, natural language processing, and parametric modelling and apply them to its own practice.
As Alexandra’s contributions started impacting Gleeds’ broader strategic direction, the partnership naturally expanded its scope to include methods for data collection, benchmarking and other data-driven initiatives not originally planned.
The university saw the potential for existing machine learning-based extraction tools as a solution.
Applying this advanced technology the collaboration surpassed all expectation, leading to the development of an AI powered cost prediction tool, plus the creation of the Extract app, designed to accelerate Gleeds’ data collection process.
As a result, Gleeds now has a competitive edge, significantly boosting turnover, as well as export potential, thanks to the ability to offer more precise, risk-modelled cost forecasts for construction and refurbishment projects.
The KTP has been a catalyst for a culture of continuous learning and innovation, as well as enhancing Gleeds’ operational capabilities and significantly contributing to its intellectual capital.
The new capabilities have given the company the confidence to tackle more complex projects and challenges, creating further avenues for business growth and innovation.
Gleeds formalised the advanced analytics methodology and data collection techniques into comprehensive process instructions for cost managers, ensuring that its team can continue to apply these new methods consistently in future projects.
An inclusive staff training programme was conducted throughout the organisation and is now part of Gleeds’ onboarding process for new recruits.
The partnership has put the University of Nottingham at the forefront of data-driven construction prediction research.
The project has provided an excellent case study for MSc students and has been instrumental in supporting their learning and development.
Finally, Alexandra went on to win the Future Leaders Category at the National Knowledge Transfer Partnerships Awards in recognition of her leadership capabilities and the impact she made in fostering a collaborative culture during her time with Gleeds.
She remains with the company as a Data Scientist, based in Scotland.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/case-studies/gsk:
GSK
Lung diseases are responsible for more than 700,000 hospital admissions and over six million inpatient bed-days in the UK each year at a significant cost to the NHS.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is the name for a group of lung conditions that cause breathing difficulties affecting an estimated 1.2 million people in the UK.
New medicines are essential to improve the quality of life for COPD sufferers.
Genetics play an important role in determining who will develop COPD but we don’t yet understand why there is such variation in how severe the disease can be and why some people experience a more rapid worsening of symptoms than others.
GSK is a science-led global healthcare company, leveraging genetic data to identify novel treatments for patients and to understand the potential for drugs in the early stages of clinical development.
The University of Nottingham developed a strategic research collaboration with GSK and the University of Leicester.
We combined large-scale computational analysis and laboratory experiments to understand the genetic and biological reasons for disease progression.
Genetic data can be used to identify people based on their gene profile to suggest the medicine types for which they are most suitable.
In addition, this research project uses the genetic profiles of COPD patients to identify novel treatments that target the underlying cause of disease.
New drug development is a long process that can be improved when academics and industry work together.
Our work is helping GSK to identify promising approaches for the development of new medicines, in addition to providing academic outputs and strengthening our history of collaboration with GSK.
The collaboration will hopefully accelerate discovery and development of innovative treatments for COPD.
Ultimately, this work will help doctors to diagnose earlier and prescribe more targeted treatments for patients, leading to better outcomes and saving the NHS money.
- - -
Interested in finding out more?
Visit the website for our Nottingham Biomedical Research Centre.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/case-studies/olio:
OLIO
UK startup OLIO is a food sharing app used by millions of people around the world.
The app tackles the huge environmental impact of waste, by enabling users to share unwanted food and household items with their neighbours.
As of November 2021, it is the most popular service of its kind, with more than 5 million users who have successfully given away 35 million portions of food and 3 million non-food items.
The OLIO founders wanted to develop a better understanding of their customers to drive their next phase of growth.
The university started a Knowledge Transfer Partnership with OLIO – transferring our cutting-edge research into a real-world application.
Our research centre, N/LAB is a centre of excellence in business analytics using big data, psychology and machine learning to investigate mass datasets.
We analysed OLIO’s user base using a combination of behavioural sciences, network analysis and artificial intelligence.
The research developed new insights into OLIO’s users and their sharing patterns.
Modelling of user and engagement growth will lead OLIO into a new phase of its development.
The partnership secured further funding to develop the world’s first Food Insecurity Map, a predictive model showing food insecurity based on geographical location.
A version of this map has been deployed live in Havering Borough Council to help understand food insecurity and intervene with those most in need.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/case-studies/netacea-limited:
Netacea Limited
Netacea quickly and accurately detect and protect against malicious bots with a pioneering server-side approach to bot management.
Their technology is implemented in minutes and supports a wide range of integrations to protect websites, mobile apps and APIs.
The company wanted to gain a deeper understanding of anomalies in website traffic and find out more about user intent.
Developing deep learning capabilities would allow the company to implement new architectures for bot recognition and strengthen their position in the cybersecurity market.
Netacea worked with the University of Nottingham to develop a model able to classify malicious activity.
We collaborated on a two and a half year Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) , helping Netacea to access our state-of-the-art research in data science and machine learning.
Led by KTP Associate David Fricker, we built a deep learning system to detect anomalies in website traffic.
To help us understand what was happening, we built artificial intelligence systems to group users and their intent in real time.
Being able to discover the intent of the users means that Netacea are able to block a user in real-time or provide their customer with a threat intelligence feed.
This adaptable system protects customers from various automated threat attacks.
One of Netacea’s leading differentiators is the amount and accuracy of bots they detect compared to competitive products.
The work done by the KTP project has vastly improved the level of detection that they can offer to customers, particularly around higher risk attack types.
The project has opened up new business opportunities for product development.
The innovations which have been a direct result of the KTP have also dramatically improved the successful onboarding a new customer and decreased the time to value.
Amongst these innovations is Netacea’s patented autoblocking technology – Intent Clustering - which introduces more blocking recommendations for the customer while saving both time and money.
A standard customer time to value is now in the region of one week, opposed to one month.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/case-studies/pipers-crisps:
Pipers Crisps
Flavour quality and stability is a key challenge for any successful food product.
Pipers Crisps is an award-winning manufacturer of premium crisps based in Lincolnshire.
They approached the University to find out more about the science behind their products and to help them enhance the flavour and to keep their crisps fresher for longer.
The University has a broad range of expertise in food sciences.
We collaborated with Pipers Crisps on two Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP) - a part-funded programme that helps businesses to grow through innovation.
KTPs enabled our experts to apply their knowledge to strategic challenges for Pipers Crisps.
Led by Dr Deepa Agarwal, an expert in food structure, flavour and product development, and Professor Ian Fisk, an expert in food chemistry, our research team used the University’s sensory labs and food science facilities to understand the flavour profile and stability of Pipers Crisps products.
We also delivered a detailed training and selection programme to help Pipers Crisps to establish an in-house team of specialist tasters who support product development and day-to-day quality control.
With the help of advanced data analysis, we were able to optimise cooking times and temperatures to minimise waste and enhance shelf life without compromising taste.
Our research led to production changes enabling Pipers Crisps to increase their products’ shelf life from 28 to 40 weeks, and to reduce oil wastage This opened new opportunities to export products to markets including South East Asia and the US.
Deepa also helped Pipers Crisps to introduce two new flavours to their product range; Jalepeno and Dill and a vegetarian crisp, Wild Thyme and Rosemary.
Pipers Crisps now employs 80 people and exports products around the world.
The company has recently been acquired by PepsiCo.
Find out if a Knowledge Transfer Partnership could help your business.
Contact our team at ktp@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/case-studies/leek-united-building-society:
Leek United Building Society
Leek United is a mutual building society with 12 branches spread across 4 counties.
As part of their commitment to exceptional customer service and employee wellbeing, they were looking at how they could better support mental wellbeing in the workplace.
A member of their team attended an Ingenuity Breakfast Event with Dr Xenia Pestova from the University’s Department of Music.
Xenia talked about how pre-performance routines and coping techniques could be adapted to any performance setting.
Leek United asked us for practical support to translate these research findings into their own business practice.
Dr Xenia Pestova has a background in research on improvisation techniques and creative problem solving.
Xenia developed a bespoke session for Leek United’s Branch Managers focusing on confidence-building, interactive listening and improvised performance.
Activities included; breathing techniques, open-focus awareness exercises, meditation as movement and ways to stabilise the breathing and heart-rate.
She worked with the Branch Managers to introduce practical techniques that would help them to better recognise and manage anxiety in the workplace.
The process has changed Leek United’s approach to performance anxiety and stress in the workplace.
Managers are more aware and able to discuss issues with their teams.
And they are better able to recognise signs of anxiety and stress.
Leek United received positive feedback from participants in the workshop and it’s helped to break the stigma around mental wellbeing in the workplace.
Find out more about our SME business network .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/case-studies/advanex-europe:
Advanex Europe
Nottinghamshire-based Advanex Europe is the European headquarters of global precision engineering solutions experts Advanex Group.
The company has operations in 23 countries and produces a range of components used in a variety of markets, including: compression springs, extension/tension springs, insert mouldings, insert collars, torsion wire forms, pressings, deep drawn metal tubes, KATO® CoilThread® inserts and medical precision springs.
Part of the Advanex Group’s international growth plans involved the purchase of a Japanese company specialising in deep drawing, an advanced metal-forming process.
Since its acquisition, a key focus for Advanex was to transfer deep drawn production from the Japanese company to Advanex Europe.
However, Advanex Europe needed support to develop its own deep drawn expertise in the UK.
Our Advanced Manufacturing Technology Group worked alongside Advanex Europe in a two-year Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP).
The original aim of the KTP was to develop and embed a simulation/scientific-based approach to design for the tooling and manufacture of metal components in order to optimise flow and minimise defects.
The project delivered a working Finite Element Analysis model of multi-stage deep drawing, giving an understanding of the effects of each material and tooling parameter on the deep drawing process, alongside existing practical experience from Japan.
What we provided, that Advanex Europe did not have, was an in-depth understanding of the deep drawing process – with the support of the KTP they now have a great deal of understanding that allows Advanex Europe to take a customer drawing and design the required tooling to manufacture the part.
Our KTP has enabled the successful transfer of deep drawn production to Europe and helped Advanex Europe develop its relationship with Japanese colleagues to support this technology.
“We are now in a far stronger position to offer deep drawn products to key markets such as aerospace, automotive and medical,” said Advanex Europe Managing Director Ian Beardsmore.
“We have ambitious plans for the next five years and developing deep drawn business is an integral part of our strategy.”
However, an unexpected benefit to the company was the recruitment of KTP Associate, Subha Tamang, who has filled the knowledge and skills’ gap that would have been created by a senior technician retiring from Advanex Europe after 40 years’ service.
“The collaboration enabled a really effective handover from our colleague to the KTP Associate and now R&D Engineer, saving us time and money,” added Mike Ribeaux, Product and Process Development Manager at Advanex Europe.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/case-studies/browne-jacobson:
Browne Jacobson
England has the lowest levels of literacy in the developed world (OECD 2016).
And with literacy skills in the UK predicted to decrease over time, an increasing number of the adult population will struggle to read and understand insurance policy documents.
Browne Jacobson, a national law firm with over 500 lawyers, felt that the quality and wording of policy drafts in the market could be significantly improved.
Clearer policy wording is easier to enforce, easier to sell and less likely to lead to regulatory difficulties.
Browne Jacobson worked with the University to find out what makes a policy document easier to understand, what impedes understanding and to share findings to improve practice across the industry.
Our linguistic researchers based in the School of English have over 20 years' experience of collaborating with industry.
Their research provides vital information on how the public use and interpret language depending on their levels of education, literacy, age, gender, ethnicity and social class.
We devised a unique academic study to examine the readability of a cross-section of insurance policies from across the market.
We used a number of methods including:
The study by Professor Conklin, Dr Parente (School of English) and Dr Hyde (School of Law) showed that insurers’ wordings generally remain unintelligible to the vast majority (approximately 87%) of the UK adult population.
All policies tested had sections that caused comprehension difficulties – with most only comprehensible by graduates.
We identified practices that can systematically and significantly increase the overall readability and understanding of policy documents.
The upshot of the improvements in readability is that the percentage of the UK adult population that could meaningfully understand the policy increased by some 75.6%, from 13.4% to 89%.
That’s an extra 40.4 million people in the UK.
The findings were presented to a roundtable of industry participants with a series of five key drafting principles identified to improve effectiveness of policy drafting across the market.
Our collaboration has been shortlisted by the Insurance Times in the category of Legal Business Partner of the Year.
Visit Linguistic Profiling for Professionals or email us at lipp@nottingham.ac.uk
The percentage of the UK adult population that could meaningfully understand the policy increased by 75.6% .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/workingwithbusiness/case-studies/civil-service:
Civil Service
The Civil Service is a unique organisation providing a huge range of career opportunities for talented graduates.
Their work impacts every aspect of society with more than 420,000 staff working in diverse areas across the UK.
The Civil Service Fast Stream offers an award-winning graduate leadership development programme.
To meet the needs of an increasingly diverse society, they need to attract, develop and retain talented people from all backgrounds to become their future senior leaders.
They contacted our Careers and Employability Service to help them to develop a strategic approach to recruitment and to make the most of their budget.
The University’s Careers and Employability Service provided a dedicated account manager as a single point of contact for Civil Service Fast Stream.
The Civil Service recruits from all disciplines and wanted to talk to students from a range of subject areas.
We worked in partnership to develop a strategic programme of events to get them in front of and engaged with our students.
These included:
Civil Service Fast Steam attended nine careers events over the course of 2018/19, leading to a significant increase in applications from our students.
There was also a big increase in applications from BAME students.
The University and Civil Service Fast Stream meet regularly to review progress and to help target the most appropriate upcoming events.
We’ve now been working together closely for more than five years.
Find out how our Careers and Employability Service could help your business.
Visit our Recruit our students and graduates web page for more information or contact recruiterservices@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/news/pressreleases/listing.aspx:
Browse by category

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/news/find-an-expert.aspx:
Contact the Press Office to interview an academic
The University's Media Guide to Expertise is a searchable guide which offers journalists instant access to academics’ areas of specialty and contact details.
The guide currently features more than 500 experts from across our campuses in the UK, China and Malaysia.
This list is to be used as a guide only and is not exhaustive.
Please contact the Press Office above to enquire about an academic or an area of expertise.
List by category
Apply to become an expert
Facilities for the Media

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/news/facilities-for-the-media.aspx:
TV and radio broadcasters are able to conduct interviews with academics and University spokespeople through the Press Office.
These can be conducted in person, over the phone or through the University's In:Quality or Quicklink facility.
The Media Hub, located on Jubilee Campus, is also available for members of staff looking for somewhere to conduct interviews.
Broadcasters can search the Media Guide to Expertise by using the search facility to find the details of the relevant University of Nottingham expert before contacting the Press Office .
Interviews will be organised by the relevant Media Relations Manager.
The Quicklink Studio-in-a-Box offers a dedicated 24/7 on-campus TV studio through which the University can showcase the expertise of its academics on a wide range of topical issues — from British politics and flu outbreaks to climate change and US gun control.
The In:Quality facility enables University staff to take part in down-the-line radio interviews without the need to physically travel to a broadcaster’s own studio.​
The facility offers broadcast industry-standard equipment that can provide a high-quality and reliable digital audio connection.​
The University also provides additional ISDN line facilities at its Sutton Bonington Campus which can be booked via the Press Office .​
Jubilee Campus In:Quality sip address: nottingham.codec.01@sip.audio​
Jubilee Campus Quicklink TV camera skype address: quicklink11119101@outlook.com​
Sutton Bonington ISDN line - 01509 672 841
For more information and to book any of our facilities, please contact the Press Office:
07971 884887  (Out of hours emergencies only)​
pressoffice@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/news/filming-enquiries.aspx:
If you are a news team filming a news story/academic expert on our campuses, you must obtain prior permission from the Press Office – pressoffice@nottingham.ac.uk ​
​To use the university campuses as a filming location only, ​Campus Venues arrange for the hiring of our buildings and facilities including lecture theatres, sports pitches, halls of residence and other areas of the university estate.​
Contact Campus Venues or call +44 115 74 86100
Please obtain prior permission from the Press Office to use university-owned photographs or videos.
Please credit the University of Nottingham when using multimedia.
​
When filming on campus, please note that parking is not provided or guaranteed, and will be assessed on a case by case basis.
Please see here for information on visitor car parking.
Further enquiries, please contact the Press Office

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/news/meettheteam/meet-the-team.aspx:
The Press Office handles all external media enquiries for the University of Nottingham from journalists and broadcasters.
Each faculty at the university has its own Media Relations Manager, listed below, that will be able to handle your enquiry.
If you are unsure which faculty your enquiry falls under, visit our department list .
General enquiries for the Press Office can be handled using the details below.
For out-of-hours emergencies only please call 07971 884887 and leave a message.
To contact the Press Office, please call 0115 951 5798 or email pressoffice@nottingham.ac.uk , or contact a member of the team below.
Head of News
Media Relations Manager - Science
Media Relations Manager - Medicine & Health Sciences
Media Relations Manager - Arts & Social Sciences
Media Relations Manager - Engineering & Rights Lab

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/news/meettheteam/charlotte.wall:
Media Relations Manager for Medicine and Health Sciences, Faculty of Registrars
My main areas of responsibility are: Reputation management and profile raising Strategic planning, monitoring and evaluation News-gathering (UoN Nottingham, Ningbo, Malaysia campuses) Editorial content production (press releases, blogs, magazine features, etc) Channel management and engagement (website, social media, publications, intranet) Handling media enquiries (for print, online, broadcast news, features and documentaries) Staff training (engaging with the media, writing and pitching opinion pieces, broadcast interview skills, etc)
My main areas of responsibility are:
I am responsible for managing media relations activities for the Faculty of Medicine and Health Science at the University of Nottingham.
This includes handling media calls, writing press releases, media briefings, managing interview and expert commentary requests and wider PR/stakeholder queries.
I also assist academics with media training and planning of their media strategies.
I have to proactively find PR opportunities within the faculties, whether this be via comment pieces relating to breaking news or upcoming research and I am skilled at turning complex papers into media-accessible copy.
I pride myself on being able to build relationships internally and externally.
A big part of my role is the generation/profile raising and in protecting the university's reputation via crisis communications and my goals are focused around increasing the amount of positive media coverage nationally and internationally.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/news/meettheteam/liz.goodwin:
Media Relations Manager (Arts and Social Sciences), Faculty of Registrars
Media evaluation and reporting.
Overseeing the daily national news summary.
Editorial content - press releases and blogs.
Handing media enquiries.
May days of work are: Monday to Thursday.
Main areas of responsibility:

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/news/meettheteam/jane.icke:
Media Relations Manager for Science, Faculty of Registrars
I joined the University in 2017 after spending time at various PR agencies across the East Midlands working on a variety of clients.
I have also worked at the British Heart Foundation where I was the Regional Marketing & Communications Officer.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/news/meettheteam/faith.pring:
Media Relations Manager, Faculty of Registrars
I joined the University in June 2022 having previously worked in regional print journalism.
My experience working as a reporter for local daily publications gave me great experience of contact-building, interviewing, and developing a social media strategy.
These skills I then transferred into my role as a Media Officer, before starting work as a Media Relations Manager in the Press Office.
I have always been passionate about communication, and love working in a role that allows me to expand on this and highlight the stories and research from some incredible people.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/news/meettheteam/emma.thorne:
Head of News, Faculty of Registrars
I joined the University in June 2000, having previously worked in regional print journalism.
My experience working as a reporter for local weekly and daily publications gave me an excellent grounding in the news-gathering and contact building skills which underpinned my work in the Press Office as Media Relations Manager for the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences.
I have since stepped up to the role of Head of News, leading the Press Office team of Media Relations Managers supporting the University's faculties.
I am passionate about science communication and love working in a job where we get to tell stories about amazing people and how their research is changing lives and making the world we live in a better place.
Find me on LinkedIn
Hours of work: Monday to Wednesday

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/sustainability/transport/publictransport/busservices.aspx:
A number of bus services run between Nottingham city centre and our campuses at University Park, Jubilee, Sutton Bonington and King's Meadow.
See the lists below for routes and timetables.
If you're travelling by bus to University Park, the Medical School or Jubilee Campus, then use the NCT bus map and Trent Barton bus map to see which services stop closest to your destination on campus.
Some bus operators do not give change so make sure you have the correct fare, or use contactless payments.
The links below use Google maps to display bus routes to our campuses:
University Park Campus and Queen's Medical Centre (QMC)
St Peter's Court Shuttle
St Peter's Court, Jubilee, University Park
Littles on behalf of Now Students
34/34C
City Centre, Derby Road, QMC, University Park
Nottingham City Transport
N34 night service
City Centre, Derby Road, QMC, University Park, Beeston
36U
City Centre, Derby Road, QMC, University Park, Beeston, Chilwell
18/18a/18b
City Centre, QMC, University Boulevard, Beeston, Bramcote, Stapleford (18) / Wollaton (18a)
CT4N
indigo
City Centre, QMC, University Boulevard, Beeston, Long Eaton, Derby
trentbarton
Medilink 1
QMC, Wilkinson Street Park & Ride, City Hospital
Medilink 2
Queen's Drive Park & Ride, QMC
Red Arrow
Nottingham City Centre, QMC, Derby City Centre
skylink Nottingham
City Centre, Castle Boulevard, University Boulevard, Beeston, Long Eaton, East Midlands Airport, Shepshed, Coalville
i4
City Centre, QMC, Derby Road, Bramcote, Sandiacre, Derby
35/35B
City Centre, QMC, Derby Road, Wollaton Vale, Bilborough, Bulwell
City Centre, QMC, Derby Road, Beeston, Chilwell
53/53B/54/54B
Arnold, City Hospital, Jubilee, QMC, Clifton Boulevard, Clifton
Jubilee Campus
Sutton Bonington Campus
66
Sutton Bonington, Zouch, Hathern, Loughborough
NB due to roadworks the 66 will be unable to serve Sutton Bonington Campus between Monday 27 January and Friday 18 April .
The bus will terminate at the bottom of Marle Pitt Hill and users will need to use the bus stops outside St Michael's Church on Main Street in Sutton Bonington village and walk to Campus.
Nottsbus On Demand
Nottsbus On Demand is a flexible way to travel by bus - simply book your journey using the Nottsbus On Demand App.
The Notts On Demand service does not follow a fixed timetable, it operates on an on demand basis.
King's Meadow Campus
Skylink
Nottingham *
City Centre, Castle Boulevard, University Boulevard, Beeston, Long Eaton, East Midlands Airport, Shepshed, Coalville
Trent Barton
53/53B/54/54B **
* Use the stops on Abbey Street and walk down Gregory Street and Lenton Lane for KMC
** Alight at the Lenton Lane footbridge on Clifton Boulevard and turn left on Lenton Lane for KMC
Royal Derby Hospital Centre
Royal Derby
London Road Community Hospital, Derby City Centre, Royal Derby Hospital
Derby City Centre***, Royal Derby Hospital, Littleover, Sunny Hill, Normanton, Derby city centre
Arriva
5A
Derby City Centre***, Normanton, Sunny Hill, Littleover, Royal Derby Hospital, Derby city centre
X38
Derby City Centre***, Royal Derby Hospital, Burton
Arriva / trentbarton
The Mickleover
Derby Bus Station***, Royal Derby Hospital, Mickleover
The Villager
Derby Bus Station***, Royal Derby Hospital, Etwall, Hilton, Burton
For further details, please see Royal Derby Hospital's website .
Buses between Nottingham and Derby
*** trentbarton operates The Red Arrow non-stop service between QMC and Derby bus station.
For further details, please see Nottingham University Hospital’s website or Nottingham City Transport’s guide to travelling to City Hospital .
Estate Office, University Park, Nottingham, NG7 2RD Email: sustainability@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studentservices/welcome/mynottingham-app/mynottingham-app.aspx:
Welcome information
Access emails, academic timetables, hopper bus timetables and your meal card - all in one place.
Get the most out of your university experience with the MyNottingham app.
Download it below.
If your IT account hasn't been activated yet, you'll start on the guest profile with limited features.
Once you've activated your IT account and registered online with the university, switch to the student profile to access all features, including emails, timetables (when available), and your library account.
Follow the steps below to switch your profile.
Having trouble with the MyNottingham app?
Check the FAQs below to see if your query is answered here.
If you can't find the answer to your question, or want to provide feedback, you can:
Before trying to log in with a username and password, please ensure that you have activated your IT account .
Once you have done this, make sure you are entering your university username and password correctly.
Your username will be a short combination of letters and possibly numbers (eg svtxx3) and is not your applicant ID, student ID or email address.
Timetables are released at the beginning of each academic year - usually on the Wednesday during Welcome Week.
If you don't see your timetable on the 'Teaching and exam timetables' tile, it's because it hasn't been released yet.
Check the Timetabling webpage for release times.
If you're still having trouble accessing your timetable once it's been released, submit a query via the Student Enquiries Centre .
Please first ensure that you have activated your IT account and logged in with your university username and password.
If you are still receiving an error message, please refer to Moodle Help and Support .
Please make sure you are entering your university email address rather than your username.
If you're still unable to access your email, please report the issue to the IT Service Desk .
This may be due to poor network connection.
Please try again later.
If you continue to receive this message, please try signing out and back again into the app.
If the problem persists, contact cateringfinance@nottingham.ac.uk or call 0115 7484997.
For further MealPass FAQs, visit the MealPass webpage .
MyNottingham app will only allow you to view your balance and pay via the QR code.
To enjoy the benefits and vouchers log on to your MealPass app.
You can rearrange and personalise your homescreen using Grid Mode.
In Grid Mode, you can drag and move tiles, and delete unwanted ones by tapping the 'Remove' icon in the top right corner of each tile.
To return your homescreen to the default, tap 'Reset'.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/estates/security/home.aspx:
The Security Administration Office is open Monday to Friday from 8am-4pm.
The Security Control Room in the Trent Building will remain open 24/7, and can be contacted by telephone on 0115 951 3013 or 0115 951 8888 (for emergencies ONLY ).
The service is supported by a Security Administration Office and a main Control Room in the Trent Building on University Park, a Security office in the Main Building Reception at Sutton Bonington as well as Security in the Gatehouses at King's Meadow Campus and Jubilee Campus.
The main Security Administration Office is at the rear of the Hallward Library, near the Law & Social Sciences Building.
Phone: 0115 951 3013 (ext 13013 internally) for 24 Hour Security Control Phone: 0115 951 8888 (ext 18888 internally) for Emergencies ONLY
Email: security@nottingham.ac.uk Security Control and Emergencies in operation 24 hours a day, seven days a week Hours of operation: 8am-4pm, Monday to Friday (Security Reception can be found at the rear of Hallward Library)

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studentservices/help/index.aspx:
We know that there's lots of information for you to understand while you are at Nottingham, that's why we're always here to help you.
There are several different ways that you can contact us, which means you can choose the channel that suits you best.
We'll answer questions about your student journey, or connect you to the right person across the university.
Monday - Friday, 10am - 4pm, click on the pop-up in the corner of this page.
Quick questions can be answered on live chat, which is run by friendly humans.
The student enquiry centre is available 24/7.
Submit an online enquiry or view our FAQs at any time to suit you.
90% of enquiries are responded to within 2 working days
Monday - Friday, 9am - 5pm
Student service centres are available on every campus, stop by and say hello.
Monday - Friday, 10am - 4pm
Call us on 0115 74 86500 and the phone menu will direct you to the team you need based on your faculty and query.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/connect/connect-linkedin.aspx:
Connect with us and the wider University community and get regular research and business-related updates via our LinkedIn company page .
You can also network with over 80,000 Nottingham alumni working for a range of organisations including Rolls-Royce, GlaxoSmithKline, Price Waterhouse Coopers, IBM and BP via our university page .
Company page
Stay in touch with fellow graduates throughout their careers by joining one of our alumni groups:

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/research/contact/index.aspx:
If you would like to know more about research at the University of Nottingham, or have a particular enquiry, please contact us using the form below.
The information that you provide in this form submission will be held in accordance with the Data Protection Act 2018 and the General Data Protection Regulation.
Your personal data will be collected and processed by the University of Nottingham for the purpose of responding to your enquiry.
The University of Nottingham will only use your personal information as set out in our privacy policy .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/alumni/contact-us.aspx:
We're always pleased to hear from alumni, whether it's a query, something in your life you want to update us on or just a hello!
Our office is now based at King's Meadow Campus but we're primarily working remotely, so please contact us by email at alumni-enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk , telephone +44 (0)115 823 2408 , or write to us at:
Campaign and Alumni Relations Office B50 CARO Team Zone King's Meadow Campus University of Nottingham Lenton Lane Nottingham NG7 2NR
You can also try our FAQs to find answers to the most popular questions or use the simple form below to contact us.
Don't miss out on our events, news and opportunities by sharing your contact details with us.
Find answers to our most frequently asked questions.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/externalrelations/digital-and-marketing/web-team/index.aspx:
We provide a website design and development service and support colleagues who are responsible for keeping our online presence fresh and engaging.
Design and development
Contensis CMS training
Analytics and SEO
Support and guidance
Make the most of your website by creating interesting and engaging layouts, be creative with imagery and ensure your messaging stands out.
Once you have done CMS training, permissions to edit can be added by the web team, on the request of a unit web coordinator or your line manager.
Web coordinators look after certain sections of the website.
Please speak to them before submitting a support request.
They may be able to help.
Members of the team work across UX and UI design, development, SEO, project management and support.
Find out more about the areas and expertise that we offer.
The web team are happy to assist staff with any issues and advise on web related queries.
Use the button below to find the appropriate request forms to raise a request with our team.
View all our FAQs
Brand
Style guide
Video
Photography
Social media
Design
Mobile app team
Digital and Marketing

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/externalrelations/digital-and-marketing/web-team/support/index.aspx:
To get support updating the University of Nottingham website (nottingham.ac.uk), there are three options:
Following a notice from the Information Commissioner's Office, all university websites previously set up via third parties and routed through nottingham.ac.uk have been disabled.
If you need to retrieve your website, please contact the Service Desk at 0115 95 16677 .
To assist with processing requests efficiently, please ensure you have the following minimum information:
Thank you for your cooperation.
If your support is about one of the following, you may need to contact someone else.
Information relating to eStaff profile is currently surfaced on the website.
This is managed and owned by Digital and Technology Services (DTS).
For technical support with your eStaff Profile , please contact your school admin in the first instance or submit a support request via Digital and Technology Services (DTS) on the DTS self-service portal .
For support enquiries relating to profile images, please submit a support request to the web team along with:
In 2024, work began to transition data to RIS.
If you have any questions relating to this, please reach out to the RIS team via email on ris-enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
If you have a query or update for an online course page, please contact marketing@nottingham.ac.uk .
This team will check if your request can be actioned and then contact the web team directly.
Please do not raise a web support ticket directly for prospectus update requests.
If the website was built by DTS, use their self-service portal to request support.
If you have an external website built in a different system (for example WordPress or Wix), we can't help you with problems with it.
If you want ongoing support, we can help you transfer it into the university's content management system.
You can start this process through a project request .
The benefits of having your website within the university content management system are:
We do not have access to the university blog system, blogs.nottingham.ac.uk .
The university will also stop hosting the site from the end of December 2025.
Please select Creative and Content on the request form for further information.
This includes uploading video to MediaSpace and YouTube.
Please select Creative and Content on the request form .
See the brand portal for advice and and good practice around copywriting, design, photography, social media, video, along with the university style guide .
You can book this training through the staff short courses system .
You need to have approval from your line manager and unit web coordinator before booking the training.
Use the web team support request form if you have already had training but:
AEM is the new system the university website is moving to.
Different teams are currently responsible for different parts of it.
Use the correct form for what you want to do:
Web addresses that start with nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/ugstudy/courses/UG/
Web addresses that start with nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/ugstudy/articles/
Use the request form and choose web from the 'Is this project for the creative and content teams or web?' question, and then web support from the 'What kind of web request?' question for:
If you are contacting us about web content that you are currently editing, please check-in all pages so that we can edit them if required.
The Marketing and Digital team is focusing its efforts on the new digital experience platform – Adobe Experience Manager.
This means we are only able to fulfil project requests on the legacy system (Contensis) that are deemed business critical .
We appreciate your patience and understanding during this period.
If you have an urgent request or need to escalate anything, please contact Rachael Grimshaw.
Thank you for your ongoing support as we work towards delivering this important new platform and enhancing our digital experience.
For business critical requests only: Use the request form and choose web from the 'Is this project for the creative and content teams or web?' question, and then web project from the 'What kind of web request?' question for:
Complete the request form

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/clas/departments/american/index.aspx:
A degree in American and Canadian Studies has never been more relevant.
From political protest, multiculturalism and global relations, to debating the removal of statues and monuments, these are all issues which make up our modern world.
Whether you’ve come to American and Canadian studies through an interest in current events - perhaps the 2020 US election, or the Black Lives Matter movement - or because you’ve always been fascinated by North American culture, our courses offer the flexibility to explore.
Instagram

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/engineering/departments/abe/index.aspx:
Welcome to our department
This is the place where we design the places of tomorrow.
We create exceptional architects, engineers and built environment professionals, who help make a greener planet spin a little smoother and improve people’s lives.
Here you get the space, support, skills and connections to revel in the real world.
Design, create, innovate and solve real-world challenges facing the built environment, including the race to net zero.
From career-advancing courses to our world-leading research, you'll be at the forefront of creating sustainable environments, buildings and spaces to achieve a better future for all.
Get ready to shape the real world.
Margaret Mulcahy (Architecture Programme Director, Faculty of Engineering) and James Pinchin (Assistant Professor in Geospatial Science, Faculty of Engineering) discuss Architecture and Built Environment at the University of Nottingham.
Save the date: End of Year Show 2025 from 19 June 2025
Explore the fantastic work of the next generation of great architects and environmental engineers through our end of year show.
View the personal projects of students on the BArch Architecture, MEng Architecture and Environmental Design and MArch Architecture (part 2) courses, along with the work of our postgraduate MArch students.
Explore Architecture and Built Environment Engineering facilities
Learn about pioneering research for a sustainable future
Where are Architecture and Built Environment graduates now?
View contact details, expertise and publications
We also help architecture practices to retain and develop talented Part 1 Architectural Assistants with our degree-level Architect apprenticeship .
View site map of the Department of Architecture and Built Environment (University Park campus).
Advice on submitting your portfolio
View previous Architecture end of year shows
Find out about our community projects in Africa
What equipment will I need?
Read about our award winning students
"UoN students have a well-rounded understanding and skill set that is rooted in reality.
They graduate with many of the capabilities that we need in people who can not only design, but also deliver beautiful and meaningful designs in this ever-accelerating world of technological and societal challenges and solutions."
— Mark Taylor, Director (Technical Design) at Allies & Morrison architects
for Architecture in The Guardian University Guide 2024, The Times Good University Guide 2024 and The Complete University Guide 2024

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/arts/index.aspx:
Contact the faculty
Supporting you to thrive
Reaching our full potential
A Conference on the Importance of Wellbeing in the Workplace
News and events
Instagram - the people, places and objects that make up the faculty
Youtube - the latest videos about the faculty
X (formerly known as Twitter)

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/biosciences/index.aspx:
We aim to inspire and educate the next generation of scientists.
Our collaborative world-leading research delivers solutions to today’s global challenges, improving lives, societies and the environment.
More news
Browse events calendar
University of Nottingham Sutton Bonington Campus Nr Loughborough LE12 5RD, UK For all enquiries please visit: www.nottingham.ac.uk/enquire
Find us Campus map Room Locations on Campus [pdf file]

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/engineering/departments/chemenv/index.aspx:
We develop chemical and environmental engineers who help make a greener planet spin a little smoother – transforming food, energy, chemicals and waste to minimise impacts on our air, land and water.
Make products, processes and systems that engineer things in a smarter, safer and cleaner way.
From career-advancing courses to our leading research, chemical and environmental engineers protect the world's natural resources and improve people's lives.
Explore Chemical and Environmental Engineering facilities
Where are Chemical and Environmental Engineering graduates now?
Find out about our academic staff, their expertise and research
"I have learnt on this course that you cannot work alone as an engineer.
The sense of community is very comforting and makes the course even more pleasurable."
— Annette Amoa, Chemical Engineering BEng student
for Chemical Engineering in The Guardian University Guide 2024

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/chemistry/index.aspx:
Take a 3D Tour of the Carbon Neutral Laboratory
A commitment to sustainability is at the core of our research activites.
Our GlaxoSmithKline Carbon Neutral Laboratory is a remarkable building, constructed from the ground up with sustainability in mind enabling it to become carbon neutral over its lifetime.
Take a tour of this state-of-the-art facility and meet some of the scientists carrying out world-leading research in Nottingham.
The School of Chemistry embraces sustainability in all of our activities including research, teaching and learning, engagement and impact, and daily operations.
Learn more about the  17 Sustainable Development Goals
The School of Chemistry is ranked Top 100 in the World and Top 10 in the UK for Chemistry.
(QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025)
Follow us on Twitter
Connect with us on Linked In
The School of Chemistry is home to the Periodic Videos YouTube channel .
Watch Periodic Videos
University Park
Nottingham, NG7 2RD
For all enquiries please visit: www.nottingham.ac.uk/enquire

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/engineering/departments/civeng/index.aspx:
This is the place that engineers a sustainable future.
We develop exceptional civil engineers who design and build the places of tomorrow.
Imagine the possibilities of structures, geotechnics, materials and fluids.
Immerse yourself in surveying, construction management and more.
From career-advancing courses to our leading research, civil engineers build sustainable communities, improve people’s lives and help make a greener planet spin a little smoother.
Explore Civil Engineering facilities
Where are Civil Engineering graduates now?
"What I enjoyed most was how the modules were structured to be applicable and practicable.
My lecturers were friendly and welcoming."
— Sunday Imosemi, Civil Engineering MSc graduate

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/humanities/departments/classics-and-archaeology/index.aspx:
Explore the past and its role in today’s world: from prehistoric cultures through ancient Greece and Rome, to the Industrial Revolution and beyond.
All you need is an interest for the subject – our courses are suitable even if you haven’t studied Classics or Archaeology before.
You’ll learn from our expert staff, have opportunities to gain work experience in our on-campus museum or Digital Transformations Hub, and benefit from specialist facilities, including six archaeological laboratories.
The latest Research Excellence Framework judged more than 75% of our research as 'world leading' or ‘internationally excellent', and our students are supported to participate in national and international research projects.
Archaeology Twitter
Classics Twitter
Contact details Archaeology twitter Classics twitter

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/computerscience/index.aspx:
Follow us on X (@UoNComputerSci)
Find us on Instragram!
For all enquires please visit: www.nottingham.ac.uk/enquire

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/clas/departments/culturalmediaandvisualstudies/cultural-media-and-visual-studies.aspx:
We are born to communicate.
Through objects and images, sounds and words, we declare our passions, entertain each other and influence the world around us.
Cultural, Media and Visual Studies examines and makes sense of all this activity.
Our work spans centuries - from Renaissance paintings to posthumanism and cyberbodies.
As much as the "what" we ask the "why" and the "who".
Why do things that way?
Who benefits?
And who doesn't?
Staff have distinct specialisations but work as one community - sharing ideas and approaches and working across international boundaries.
Explore our themes and what it's like to study and research with us.
Honest opinions about studying here
Research interests and contact details

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/clas/index.aspx:
The School of Cultures, Languages and Area Studies is a leading centre for the study of culture, film and media, modern languages and American and Canadian studies.
We offer first degrees (BA) and both taught and research postgraduate degrees (MA, MRes, MSc and PhD) and deliver internationally recognised research across our departments.
We work closely with The University of Nottingham's campuses in China and Malaysia .
Browse all news and upcoming events here

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/economics/index.aspx:
The School of Economics integrates excellence and innovation in teaching with an international reputation for high-quality research.
Undergraduate degree courses
Postgraduate taught courses
Postgraduate research degrees
School of Economics staff are recognised nationally and internationally for their influential and cutting-edge research.
Read about some of their recent publications in top-tier academic journals.
Sir Clive Granger Building University of Nottingham University Park Nottingham, NG7 2RD

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/education/index.aspx:
The School of Education welcomes students, scholars and other partners into our vibrant global community.
We work globally through our international campuses and innovative courses, and locally through partnership schools, professional networks and diverse communities.
Study on our BA Education course
Develop your skills with a master's course
Apply for a research degree
Train to be a primary or secondary school teacher with Qualified Teacher Status
Improve your professional practice in a global context
Learn to teach effectively - for university staff
Train to become a person-centred experiential counselling for depression practitioner or supervisor
Discover more about the activities and projects of our six research centres
Follow us on BlueSky
Like us on Facebook

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/engineering/departments/eee/index.aspx:
Where the brightest sparks light up the future before us.
We develop exceptional electrical and electronic engineers who are high in demand - the possibilities really are endless.
Electrical and electronic engineers create systems that manage energy and data respectively, using overlapping skills from their studies.
These skills are vital for designing smart buildings, electric transportation, intelligent manufacturing, autonomous vehicles, medical and connected devices.
From career-advancing courses to our world-leading research, electrical and electronic engineers help make a greener planet spin a little smoother and improve people’s lives.
Thomas Cox (Associate Professor) and Liyou Huang (Electrical and Electronic Engineering Graduate) talk about what prospective students might study on the Electrical and Electronic Engineering course and the facilities available to students.
Explore Electrical and Electronic Engineering facilities
Where are Electrical and Electronic Engineering graduates now?
We also help businesses develop new staff and support existing employees to take their next step with our degree-level Electro-Mechanical Engineer apprenticeship
"I spent a year at Ford Motor Company in the Mild Hybrid Electric Vehicle team.
My role was to focus on the instrumentation of the vehicles, the energy management of them as well as collecting data."
— Stuart Kasakende, Electrical and Electronic Engineering BEng (with a Year in Industry) graduate
for Electrical and Electronic Engineering in The Guardian University Guide 2024 and The Times Good University Guide 2024

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/engineering/index.aspx:
Welcome to the Faculty of Engineering
Progress is rarely a straight line.
Small steps.
Missteps.
Great strides.
Giant leaps.
Make them all here.
We believe that great minds don't think alike.
This is the place where you get the space, support, skills and connections to:
First UK engineering department to gain Athena Swan Gold Award
High Fliers, The Graduate Market in 2024
Abdulquadri Ademakinwa – Architecture and Environmental Design MArch (Digital Engineer, Laing O'Rourke and Bouygues Travaux Publics)
We work with over 1,400 engineering employers locally, nationally and internationally, including:
“We looked at which universities the students were coming from that were successful in joining our company and Nottingham was right at the top.”
Peter Clarke – Global Analytical Sciences Director, Mondelez International
Visit our campuses in person
Read about engineering and architecture departments
Find a course or PhD
Multi-disciplinary research impact

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/english/index.aspx:
Welcome to the School of English!
Our broad range of expertise celebrates the diversity and richness of the English language, its literatures, their performance and their histories.
We are a community built on research and education, where all of our lecturers are active researchers and our students are welcomed into the research community.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/clas/departments/modern-languages/modern-languages-cultures.aspx:
Welcome to the Department of Modern Languages and Cultures, one of the UK’s largest modern language units.
We are passionate about the many languages and cultures we teach and research, come and share them with us.
Translation Studies
Chinese Studies
Statement on the War in Ukraine
The staff of Russian and Slavonic Studies at the University of Nottingham would like to express their deep concern over the Russian invasion of Ukraine as an act of aggression against a sovereign country.
Our thoughts are with the Ukrainian people and everybody who is affected by Putin's war on Ukraine, including our students in the UK as well as our friends and colleagues in Slavonic countries.
In these dark times, we remain committed to the close personal and intellectual links with our Ukrainian and Russian colleagues, friends and relatives who oppose Putin’s war.
Read more here .
Find a member of staff
We are home to the Language Centre , which offers language classes and services to all University of Nottingham students and staff.
Meet students and staff from across the faculty
See pictures shared from our students on their year abroad
Department of Modern Languages and Cultures

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/engineering/departments/foundationyear/index.aspx:
This is the place where you get an invaluable foundation for your future.
We develop exceptional engineers and scientists with the potential to solve real-world challenges and help make a greener planet spin a little smoother.
Strengthen your knowledge, experience and confidence before you progress onto year one of your undergraduate degree.
Our career-advancing Foundation Engineering and Physical Sciences course is an ideal way to explore a variety of subject areas informed by leading research, whilst gaining a supportive university experience.
Tom Westby (Assistant Professor and Admissions Tutor, Faculty of Engineering) and Sobia Qazi (Assistant Professor, Faculty of Engineering) discuss the Foundation Engineering and Physical Sciences (FEPS) course.
Study the Foundation Engineering and Physical Sciences programme at the University of Nottingham
Study the Science and Engineering Foundation Certificate at our International College - run in partnership with Kaplan and located next to University Park Campus
Explore Foundation Engineering and Physical Sciences facilities
Where are Foundation Engineering and Physical Sciences graduates now?
"I had a passion for engineering, but I didn’t know what path to take.
If you're curious about something - why does it work like that - then engineering is for you, because you think outside the box."
— Feroz Anjum, Foundation Enginering and Physical Sciences student

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/geography/index.aspx:
The field of geography is very broad and we teach right across this spectrum, offering undergraduate, postgraduate taught, and postgraduate research courses, with subjects ranging from flooding to financial crises and areas of study from Italy to India.
Read the school blog
Follow our Instagram

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/healthsciences/index.aspx:
We train tomorrow's healthcare professionals and researchers in the fields of nursing, midwifery, physiotherapy, sport rehabilitation, and allied health.
Our award-winning school has an outstanding reputation for teaching and research excellence.
We have undergraduate courses in health promotion and public health, health sciences with a foundation year, midwifery, nursing: adult, child and mental health, physiotherapy and sport rehabilitation
Our CPD programme is a means by which health and social care professionals can develop their skills, knowledge and practice to ensure contemporary care.
We offer a variety of full or part-time masters, certificates and diplomas for health and social care professionals, with a focus on either advanced clinical practice or research.
We have a strong research and knowledge transfer focus with a large and vibrant community of doctoral scholars, including many international students.
See all news
See all events
B236, Medical School Queen's Medical Centre Nottingham, NG7 2HA
telephone: +44 (0)115 95 15559 email: mhssupport@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/humanities/departments/history/index.aspx:
Why Study History?
Understanding the past is more important now than ever.
By exploring how we arrived at our present, we gain crucial insights for shaping the future.
A degree in history equips you with a unique combination of skills, ranging from cultural, political, and economic analysis to environmental awareness, offering access to a wide range of career opportunities.
Global Research Focus
Our research specialisms underpin courses and modules that offer history from the fall of the Roman Empire to the contemporary world.
They have a global reach that includes Africa, the Middle East, Central Asia, the Far East, Western and Eastern Europe, and North America.
Contact details Twitter

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/humanities/school-of-humanities.aspx:
All our disciplines offer perspectives on the most significant aspects of human life and culture: birth, love and death, questions of ethics and problems of knowledge and evidence, the relation of our future to our past, and the individual’s place in society and the world.
The humanities do not offer certainties or straightforwardly ‘right’ answers but they do require students to respond to profound and important questions about things that really matter and will never date.
It's no surprise then that our graduates are popular with employers: the transferable skills humanities teach are well known and very much in demand.
Classics and Archaeology
History
Music
Philosophy
Contact details

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/language-centre/index.aspx:
Accessible language learning for everyone
We offer a broad range of high quality language learning for students, staff and the general public.
Our aim is to help you ‘Talk to The World’, so come along and find your voice!
Learn a language as part of your degree
View all events
@languagecentreuon Instagram
@LanguageCentreUoN Youtube
@Language Centre University of Nottingham
Email us:  languagecentre@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/law/index.aspx:
The School of Law is proud to welcome students, staff and partners into our internationally renowned and vibrant community.
With a focus on excellence in teaching, coupled with a strong research base, we provide global leadership on legal knowledge and education.
Continuing Professional Development

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/life-sciences/index.aspx:
Our vision is to develop inspirational leaders of education, research and commercial innovation within a supportive and professional environment at the forefront of research in the Life Sciences for human and planet health.
Our research expertise and foundation, undergraduate and postgraduate courses span:
This informs our teaching and is at the heart of everything we do.
We aspire to generate knowledge and understanding, challenge convention and deliver positive change to the world and its people through delivering transformative team-based research in:
Find out about all our foundation, undergraduate and postgraduate courses
Find out more about our academic research groups, get in touch about a research project, or find a supervisor for a bespoke PhD or MRes
Current Staff and Students Sharepoint
Athena SWAN awards https://www.advance-he.ac.uk/equality-charters/athena-swan-charter champion good working practices to advance the representation of women in science, technology, engineering, medicine and mathematics.
The school was awarded Athena SWAN Gold Status .
Equality and Diversity support in the School
University of Nottingham Medical School Queen's Medical Centre Nottingham NG7 2UH
e: life-sciences@nottingham.ac.uk t: +44 (0)115 823 0141 f: +44 (0)115 823 0142

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/mathematics/index.aspx:
Mathematics is the universal language of science and engineering.
For centuries it has shaped the way humanity understands the world.
Its role in modern world technologies and services can only be expected to increase.
Webinar recording catch-up

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/engineering/departments/m3/index.aspx:
This is the place that innovates the future.
We develop exceptional engineers and designers who solve real-world challenges and help make a greener planet spin a little smoother.
Create cutting-edge tools and technologies involving aerospace, energy, heat, ergonomics, materials, robotics, product design and more.
From career-advancing courses to our world-leading research, our engineers are highly sought after in a diverse range of industries – including aerospace, energy, advanced manufacturing, automotive, biomedical and more.
Explore facilities
Where are Mechanical, Materials and Manufacturing graduates now?
Read about our electric car racing team
Electro-Mechanical Engineering apprenticeship
"External industry experts supplemented the design tutors and helped us develop brainstorming skills, sketching skills and knowledge of manufacturing processes.
My major project was redesigning a bassinet and I was able to speak to staff in the Queen’s Medical Centre hospital thanks to the university contacts."
— Jon Mason, Product Design and Manufacture BEng alumni (Director of Product Design Engineering at PDD)

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/medicine/about/units-and-platforms/education-centre/index.aspx:
We are the leadership and organisational hub for all undergraduate, post-graduate taught, and post-graduate research activity in the School of Medicine.
In partnership with a team of senior academics and professional services staff, we ensure that the teaching delivered is of high quality and that students have a good and fulfilling experience.
Embarking on higher education, whether at the undergraduate or postgraduate level, is a transformative experience.
It equips students with the skills and knowledge they need to make a difference to not only their lives but to the lives of other people.
Within the School of Medicine, we prepare our students for working in industry, academia and as professional medical doctors, ready to alleviate suffering and improve the health and well-being of those around us.
As one of the largest schools of medical education in the UK, we are proud of the diversity and astonishing achievements of our student body.
Our mission is to develop them as the pioneers and leaders of the future, equipping them with the critical scientific thinking and excellent communication skills they need to be successful.
At the undergraduate level, we offer courses in Cancer Sciences and Medical Physiology and Therapeutics as well as Medicine, with three separate entry points including a foundation year (6 year programme), standard entry (5 year programme) and graduate entry (4 year programme).
We also offer postgraduate Masters level qualifications in Medical Education, developing a skilled workforce of educators equipped to meet the challenges of training professional and accomplished doctors to meet the demands of the NHS.
We also support the other academic units to deliver postgraduate taught courses.
These provide students with opportunities to further develop their critical thinking and professional skills, to explore subjects in-depth with world-leading experts in the field and to become confident in the skills needed for the workplace.
Finally, we support a highly motivated group of postgraduate PhD research students to become experts in their chosen field of study.
We equip them with the skills required to push boundaries, to ask and answer difficult questions and to become the research leaders of the future.
Discover our research
Discover our people
University of Nottingham Medical School Nottingham, NG7 2UH
Contacts: Call 0115 823 0031 ext.30031 or please see our 'contact us' page for further details

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/medicine/index.aspx:
We train tomorrow's doctors and researchers through a range of undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
Plus, our world-leading research ranges from basic and translational science through to clinical trials, epidemiology, and health services research.
The power of education and research within Medicine to impact individuals and communities cannot be underestimated.
Our innovative curricula, cutting-edge research, and world-leading facilities furnish all in our community with the knowledge, skills, values and insights needed to navigate modern medicine's dynamic and complex landscape enabling each to have a significant impact on the lives of others.
Whether you are a prospective student, a healthcare professional, or a curious visitor, I hope you find inspiration and valuable resources here at the School.
--- Professor Claire Stewart Dean and Head of the School of Medicine

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/mhs/index.aspx:
Together we deliver world-leading research and inspirational teaching for tomorrow’s scientists, doctors, healthcare professionals and vets.
Undergraduate, postgraduate taught and postgraduate research courses
Find out about our schools - from teaching and research to news and events
About our faculty
View our facilities
Our people

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/mhs/study-with-us/midlandsmhnphd/index.aspx:
The Midlands hosts the most innovative centres in mental health and neurosciences (MH&N), including digital mental health, clinical trials, neuroimaging, and epidemiology, serving an area of huge clinical need.
The Midlands Mental Health & Neurosciences PhD Programme is led by the University of Nottingham, in collaboration with University of Birmingham, University of Leicester, and University of Warwick, and our local NHS Trusts in the Midlands.
In a research environment that is dynamic, socially inclusive, and supportive, our programme will develop an excellent, multidisciplinary, multi-professional researchers and an inter-sectoral research Midlands hub, facilitating adult learning, developing research and leadership skills, independent and critical thinking, and sharing of ideas, and teamwork.
Our PhD scholars will undertake excellent challenge-led research encompassing MH&N discovery science to translational and applied health research, covering the human lifespan and taking a bio-psycho-social approach, commensurate with the complex presentations, experiences, interventions, and impact of mental ill-health.
Our vision, with inclusivity at its core, is to develop the next generation of multi-skilled research leaders amongst healthcare professionals from diverse cultural backgrounds and professions to conduct excellent research and advance knowledge in Mental Health & Neurosciences, paving the way to better patient, family, and carer care; community empowerment; and social development.
*Funding for salaries is based on average NHS pay bands for different healthcare professionals, which Wellcome has used to fund this programme.
We may be able to accommodate funding above the average pay bands, but this will be dealt with on a case-by-case basis.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/z-oldsites/music/index.aspx:
We offer exceptional research-led teaching, inspiring facilities for performance and composition, music technology, and a unique programme of traineeships and placement opportunities.
Our academic and performance activities are fully integrated into the dynamic musical life of the city of Nottingham.
Folk duo Morris and Watson showcase their skills.
Studying music and philosophy at Nottingham opened up opportunities for learning which I never expected.
The enthusiasm and friendliness of the lecturers enabled me to gain the richest understanding of every topic.
In addition, I had the opportunity to study in Hong Kong for a semester which made my experience of university even more unique.
Alice Roberts, BA Music and Philosophy
The University of Nottingham Lakeside Arts Centre University Park Nottingham, NG7 2RD
Admission enquiries All other enquiries - Telephone: +44 (0)115 951 5841 - Email: music-enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk Twitter

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/pharmacy/index.aspx:
We train pharmacists of the future and are recognised for research in the design and use of drugs and medicines.
We are ranked 12th in the World and 4th in the UK for Pharmacy and Pharmacology in the latest QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025.
Joint 1st (with 12 other universities) for research environment in the UK, confirmed as 100% 'world-leading' *
Joint 4th in the UK for research quality, with 96% of our research assessed as 'world-leading' or 'internationally excellent' *
*2021 Research Excellence Framework (REF2021).
We are ranked 4th in the UK for our research quality in the REF2021 results.
We were part of a joint return with colleagues from the School of Medicine (UoA3 Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing, and Pharmacy).
96% of our research is world-leading or internationally excellent.
Our research environment is 100% world-leading.
For all enquiries please visit: www.nottingham.ac.uk/enquiry

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/humanities/departments/philosophy/index.aspx:
Through Philosophy, and Theology and Religion, we explore the big questions from diverse perspectives.
Philosophy is our attempt to understand the world around us and our place in it.
It engages with science, history, and literature to develop and assess concepts of reality, truth, justice, and identity.
Our teaching builds on our diverse research specialisms, covering practical issues in social identity and mental health, through to abstract concepts of time, truth, and consciousness.
Our courses have a global approach, including Asian, African, and Western philosophical traditions.
Theology and Religion are about making sense of the stories and practices people live by.
We specialise in Christianity and Islam and also examine Judaism, Buddhism, and other traditions.
In our research and teaching, we explore how religion intersects with social justice, technology, and the natural world, as well as philosophy, sociology and history.
All of our degrees open doors to many different career paths and provide key skills and perspectives for addressing the challenges of our time.
Undergraduate Masters PhD
Explore our expertise and projects
Profiles and contact details
The latest from the department
Philosophy outside of the university
Talk, follow, visit
The department is a great learning atmosphere full of friendly professionals.
The eclectic research of the tutors can bring you into contact with literature, history, archaeology, art history and continental philosophy – something for all students of the programme.
Jack Murphy, BA Philosophy and Theology
Contact us Twitter

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/physics/index.aspx:
Our areas of study and innovation range from the minuscule - examining subatomic particles and quantum nanostructures - to the vastness of galaxies.
Our research spans extreme temperatures, from near-absolute zero conditions to the intense heat of the Big Bang.
We come up with new theories to fit what we observe and then design experiments and use advanced methods such as machine learning and AI to understand what we measure.
We are home to numerous research fellows from the most prestigious research funders, such as the Royal Society.
In our astronomy group, we treat the Universe as a playground, a laboratory in which to test theories of gravity, fusion and particle physics in the most extreme environments.
There is nowhere better to test your theories of gravity than at the edge of a black hole - and that’s exactly what we do in our award-winning Gravity Laboratory .
We are also the home of the Nobel Prize for the development of MRI body scanners, and we remain a world-leader in this area of medical physics .
In 2022, we were awarded £29.1 million to establish the UK’s most powerful Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scanner as a national facility.
Professor Brookes, recipient of an OBE in the 2023 New Year Honours, has helped pioneer a new kind of wearable brain scanner that has potential to transform the diagnosis and understanding of a number of neurological and psychiatric disorders, including autism, epilepsy and dementia.
As much as we love our research, it is our passion for teaching that makes Nottingham special .
We want you to have a great time learning about the subject that we research and teach, and we strive to prepare you for whatever direction you choose to take your love of the subject, whether it be entering industry, joining academia, or launching a medical physics startup.
For example, there are many varied and exciting career paths you can take with a background in medical physics.
These span from research and development of new technologies, to supporting end-users of the technology from within the health sector, to interacting with patients during their diagnosis or treatment planning pathway.
The Institute of Physics (IOP) found that, in 2019 alone, physics directly generated 11% of total UK gross domestic product (GDP) and the UK physics sector accounts for 10% of total UK employment .
Opt for a degree in physics, and a wide array of career paths will open up for you.
Opt for Nottingham, and not only will you enjoy your journey towards earning that degree in a down-to-earth atmosphere, but you’ll also benefit from the unwavering support and dedication of our entire staff committed to helping you achieve your dream.
Apply Now for Undergraduate and Postgraduate Courses Have you decided you would like to study physics but don't think you have the right qualifications?
The School of Physics and Astronomy offers a foundation year which provides an alternative route onto our highly regarded BSc or MSci physics degrees.
Foundation Year
"Albert Einstein's signed blackboard featured on ABC News"
ABC News visited our physics department to uncover the story of Einstein's visit to Nottingham and the blackboard we preserved from his lecture—the only signed one in existence.
Watch Professor Antonio Padilla reveal why this extraordinary artifact remains a scientific treasure.
Undergraduate students are welcome to attend all seminars.
See all internal events

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/politics/index.aspx:
We are a diverse, research-led school, which integrates research and teaching at every level.
Our research covers almost all aspects of contemporary politics and international relations and we aim to challenge and inspire you.
News website Bellingcat co-creates module in partnership with Natalie Martin
Open-source investigation module
"A trio of Christian Democrats could increase European defense spending and competitiveness"
Read 'Europe's New Power Trio'
"Fulda's book will have a disproportiante impact on the world's understanding of Sino-German relations"
Fulda's new book
Join us on Linkedin
Follow us on X

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/psychology:
We are ranked in the Top 100 in the World and 12th in the UK for Psychology in the QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025.
We're ranked 8th in the UK for research power in the 2021 Research Excellence Framework, which takes into account a combination of the quality of our research, its international impact, critical mass and sustainability
The School of Psychology, part of Unit of Assessment (UoA) 4 (Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience) maintains a strong position in the upper half of the unit, with an increase from REF2014 in the percentage of both ‘internationally excellent’ and ‘world-leading’ outputs, with a significant increase in those assessed as ‘world-leading’.
All of the impact case studies submitted were viewed as being ‘outstanding’ or ‘very considerable’.
The school’s research environment is recognised as being at least ‘internationally excellent’, with 62.5% ‘world leading’.
The UoA is ranked by Times Higher Education as 8th in the UK for research power, which takes into account a combination of the quality of our research, its international impact, critical mass and sustainability.
We offer a range of highly competitive undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
It's never too early to start thinking about your career, so we have a number of resources available.
Take advantage of support, guidance and information for your time with us at Nottingham.
Our highly-ranked research drives our teaching and learning, so find out what we have to offer.
Before applying for a PhD place, applicants should have decided on the area of their research and agreed this with a potential supervisor.
If you're passionate about a career in psychology, you'll want to find out more about our fellowships.
University Park The University of Nottingham Nottingham, NG7 2RD

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/science/home.aspx:
The Faculty is made up of seven schools :
The faculty also offers cross-faculty courses in natural sciences .
The latest Research Excellence Framework (2021) found our research to be 'world-class' and 'internationally excellent'.
The Faculty of Science undertakes world-class research spanning wide ranging topics including quantum physics, plant genomics, human imaging, sustainable chemistry, neuroscience, mathematical modelling and beyond.
We work closely with industry on the training of the next generation of scientists and collaborate worldwide to ensure our research has a major societal impact.
Professor Zoe Wilson Pro Vice Chancellor for the Faculty of Science
We are very grateful for the financial support the University receives from our alumni and supporters to ensure Nottingham remains the innovative, pioneering and leading institution that it always has been.
View our Roll of Honour .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/social-sciences/index.aspx:
The Faculty of Social Sciences is one of the largest and most diverse in Europe, with seven different schools with teaching and research varying across a wide range of topics, theories and methods of analysis.
We have a long history dating back to 1798 , and since then they have grown in depth and breadth to include a wide range of subject areas and academic disciplines.
Find out more about the Faculty of Social Sciences at Nottingham.
Research
Schools

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/sociology/index.aspx:
We are a leading UK school for sociology, criminology, social policy and social work.
Read our blogs
Situational metaphors, satire and sense-making In one of my previous posts, I discussed a type of metaphor that I call ‘situational metaphor’.
Such metaphors emerge spontaneously in a situation that presents an opportunity to make a witty, mostly satirical, comment.
These metaphors are generally structured as short dialogues.
Somebody posts an observation of something happening in the world, and in ...
The post Situational metaphors, satire and sense-making appeared first on Making Science Public .
In one of my previous posts, I discussed a type of metaphor that I call ‘situational metaphor’.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/visitingus/sutton-bonington-campus-self-guided-tour.aspx:
We know it's not always possible for you to join us at an Open Day, but don't worry, our campuses are open to the public all year round.
You're welcome to drop by and explore Sutton Bonington Campus at any time that suits you.
To help you find your way around, we've highlighted some of the key buildings on campus below.
To follow the self-guided tour, we recommend you use our campus map as the building numbers and map references correspond to this map.
However, you can also use Google Maps to navigate our campus too, just search for the name of the building on the app.
Download the campus map
Before you arrive, please check our parking website , as restrictions and charges may apply.
The main visitors car park (D3) on Sutton Bonington Campus is located off College Road.
This is also where the Hopper Bus from University Park Campus will drop you off.
We estimate this tour will take around 30 minutes.
Please note there is restricted access to academic buildings and halls of residence.
From the car park, head south and cross the road.
On your left there is the North Laboratory.
The North Laboratory is home to the Division of Food, Nutrition and Dietetics who carry out nutrition related work.
In here you will find state-of-the-art laboratories, including the Peter Buttery Teaching Laboratory (also known as the Super Lab), dietetic lab and an analytical lab.
There are also clincal setting rooms, research facilities, shared offices and meeting spaces.
With the North Laboratory on our left, continue south towards the wooden pagoda (D3).
Before you reach the pagoda (D3), the James Cameron-Gifford Library will be on your right, across the car park.
The James Cameron-Gifford Library supports the School of Veterinary Medicine and Science, and the School of Biosciences here on Sutton Bonington.
The library is open to students 24 hours a day and includes an assistive technology room, laptop loans, print, copy and scan, self-service machines and various study spaces.
Continute towards the pagoda and on your left is the Lecture Block.
Facilities include two large lecture theatres and various seminar rooms used by all subjects on Sutton Bonington campus.
Directly across the courtyard from Lecture Block (9/E3) is Main Building.
Services and facilities within the building include laboratories, teaching rooms, lecture theatres and offices.
To the left of the Main Building (11/D4), behind the fountains, is the Barn.
The Barn is set at the heart of the Sutton Bonington Campus and includes a dining hall, common room, study spaces, faith rooms, student services and a range of other facilities over three floors.
There is also a café selling deli light bites and beverages.
Additionally, Costcutter and Starbucks can be found at the rear of The Barn in the Food Hall (17/E4).
Once you have finished exploring The Barn, continue south along the footpath so it's on your right as you go past it.
As you reach the end of The Barn, across the road is the South Laboratory.
This lab is used by the School of Biosciences to support research across the entire food system.
The facilities are used by students, researchers and industry partners.
Facilities include:
Continue south and the next building along is the Gateway Building.
This building joins our two academic departments on Sutton Bonington: the School of Biosciences and the School of Veterinary Medicine and Science.
This building has 3,100 square metres of laboratories, teaching spaces and offices, and contains more than 300 metric tonnes of locally sourced straw.
Also within the building is a computer room, seminar rooms and the Agricultural and Environmental Sciences Laboratory.
Opposite the Gateway Building (28/E4) you can see some of the halls of residence that make up Bonnington Student Village.
Bonington Student Village is our on-campus student accommodation which offers 1-bedroom apartments, en-suites and shared apartments.
Each room has a comfortable bed, a bedside table, a desk and chair, a wardrobe, bookshelves, drawers and a bedside table, and free high-speed WiFi.
Chill with friends in the common room and wash & dry your clothes with the help of laundry facilities.
Other amenities include 24/7 security, onsite parking and more!
The last building you will come to before you reach the south entrance of the campus is the Clinical Building or more commonly known as the Vet School.
The Vet School Building has a huge range of modern, purpose-built facilities for teaching and clinical use.
With specialist laboratories, like the radioisotope lab and anatomy lab and clinical skills and surgery suites.
You can also find:
Turn around and head back down the road you just walked up.
As you come back to The Barn (20/D4), you will see a small car park.
Cross this car park and take the footpath on the right hand side, between Lecture Block (9/E3) and Food Science Building.
Food Science Building is used by the School of Biosciences for teaching and research in food science.
In here you can find lecture theatres, teaching laboratories, the favlour laboratory and food processing facilities.
It's also the base for the Sensory Science Centre.
The Centre has state of the art sensory facilities, including a suite of 10 booths designed to industry standards, with controlled temperature, lighting and ventilation.
There's also a custom-designed kitchen used for controlled production of samples in research.
Contiune on the footpath that runs along the Food Science Building (14/E3).
The next building you'll come to is the Plant Science Building.
The Plant Science Building facilitates research in plant biochemistry, physiology, cellular structure, signalling, transport and genetics.
Within the building we have specialist labs, teaching rooms, a lecture theatre and offices.
Continue along the path in the same direction until you come to Bioenergy and Brewing Science, which is surrounded by a lake.
This building is used for research in brewing science.
In here you will find our very own 10hL pilot scale brewery and equipment for micromalting and wort production.
Some of our current research projects include flavour improvement of low-alcohol beers and development of high gravity fermentations.
Carry on past Bioenergy and Brewing Science (7/E3) to the end of the footpath.
Directly in front of you, across the car park are our Glasshouses.
This is 1800m² of glasshouse and polytunnel growing space serviced by a specialist team.
In here, we can undertake work in a number of areas including seed bulking, plant nutrition and plant physiology.
Beyond the Glasshouses are our farm facilities, including some of the fields where we grow crops for teaching and research purposes.
To get back to the car park, turn left and follow the footpath until you find the entrance to the car park.
The Hopper Bus stop back to University Park Campus can also be found in this car park.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/visitingus/jubilee-campus-self-guided-tour.aspx:
You're welcome to drop by and explore Jubilee Campus at any time that suits you.
The main visitors car park (C1) on Jubilee Campus is located off Wollaton Road, next to the main entrance and Melton Hall (C).
The Business School North houses some of Nottingham University Business School’s services and facilities.
Including teaching rooms, the International Centre for Corporate Social Responsibility, postgraduate careers and student experience.
With the Business School North on your right and the lake on your left, walk south.
Services and facilities include the Terrazo Café, SPAR shop, teaching rooms, lecture theatres, student study areas and Student Services Centre.
A Hopper Bus Service to University Park Campus runs from in front of the Exchange.
Behind The Exchange (2/D2) is the Sir Harry and Lady Djanogly Learning Resource Centre.
This library houses books and resources for the Schools of Education and Computer Science and is home to the Commonwealth Education Documentation Centre.
It is named after active philanthropists, Sir Harry and Lady Djanogly, who have contributed to the founding of many public venues in Nottingham.
Continue to walk south.
Next to The Exchange (2/D2) you will find the Computer Science Building.
Here you can find specialist computer labs with 24-hour access for our students, teaching rooms and study spaces.
The Atrium serves breakfast, brunch, lunch and dinner for students living in the catered halls of residence on Jubilee Campus.
Self-catered students can also purchase meals from here, as well as our visitors.
So this is a perfect place to grab a bite to eat when on campus.
Cut through the Atrium and head east towards Triumph Road, walking between Newark Hall (A/E2) and Southwell Hall (B/E2).
If the Atrium is closed, walk back towards the Exchange (2/D2) and take the footpath around the buildings.
With a population of over 400 residents Newark and Southwell halls are two of our most modern university halls.
Both are fully catered with meals served at The Atrium.
When reaching the end of the road turn right onto Triumph Road and walk south.
Jubilee Sports Centre houses a 100-station fitness suite, spin studio, two sports halls, eight badminton courts, a squash court and a full-sized 3G rubber crumb pitch.
Students living in our Jubilee and University Park Campus accommodation can access our sports centres through the free Active Living package .
Next door, is Costa Coffee, where you can stop for a break and a refuel.
Continue to walk south on Triumph Road, on the opposite side of the road, you’ll see the Yang Fujia Building.
Named in honour of outgoing Chancellor Professor Yang Fujia.
Services and facilities include seminar rooms and the Professional Services Hub used by our staff.
Next to Yang Fujia is the Xu Yafen Building.
In here you can find a Faith Centre, the Graduate Centre and seminar rooms.
On the ground floor there's also the Aspire café, which serves hot and cold food and beverages, if you'd like a break during the tour.
Opposite Yang Fujia (10/E3) and Xu Yafen (11/E3) and as you continue south on Triumph Road, you'll see Innovation Park.
This part of our campus provides first-class office space and facilities for business.
Currently, 87 businesses are based here including the Ingenuity Lab which supports 189 student businesses, and comprises the Nottingham Geospatial Building (3/F3), Institute of Mental Health (17/F2), GSK Carbon Neutral Laboratory for Sustainable Chemistry (31/F4) and more.
Continue south down Triumph Road and go down the footpath on the right after The Sir Colin Campbell Building (12/F3).
At the end of the path, you will find the low-carbon Si Yuan Centre.
Officially opened by the Chinese Ambassador and Lord Prescott, the Si Yuan Centre houses the School of Contemporary Chinese Studies and the prestigious Nottingham Confucius Institute.
Walk north along the lake.
Business School South is another teaching and study area for Nottingham University Business School students on Jubilee Campus.
You can also find the Business Library on the top floor of this building.
Continue walking north along the lake.
The Dearing Building is home of the School of Education, including the Centre for English Language Education (CELE).
There are also study spaces and seminar rooms in this building.
And that's our Jubilee Campus.
To get back to the car park, turn around and head south along the lake, back to the Si Yuan Centre (9/E3) and turn left.
Follow the path until you reach the car park.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studywithus/visitingus/university-park-campus-self-guided-tour.aspx:
You're welcome to drop by and explore our Green Flag Award-winning University Park Campus at any time that suits you.
The main visitor car park on University Park Campus is located off Cut Through Lane.
Make sure you wear comfortable footwear as our campus is quite large.
Also allow yourself plenty of time to complete the tour, we estimate it will take around 1.5 hours.
We recommend starting your tour at Hallward Library as it is a short walk from the visitor car park.
Hallward Library is home to our arts and social science students and holds over half a million books.
There are four floors of study spaces with computer access and a café.
While you won’t be able to enter the library on your visit, our friendly staff at the front desk can answer your questions.
Turn right out of Hallward Library and head down the steps on Djanogly Terrace towards the big screen, or take the ramps on either side of the terrace.
Portland Building houses the Students’ Union (SU) and offers a large range of food and drink outlets.
You’ll also find useful services such as Accommodation, the Careers and Employability Service, Oasis, Chaplaincy and Faith Support and Student Services.
In front of Portland is Highfields Park where you can enjoy a lakeside walk, mini golf and boating in the summer months.
Come out of the front of Portland and turn right.
Built between 1922-1928, our iconic Trent Building is known for its clock tower.
It is home to the School of Cultures, Languages and Area Studies and Trent Café, which is located on the lower floor.
From here you'll get a great view of the lake on Highfields Park.
When you're done here, walk through the Trent Building courtyard and down Jubilee Avenue.
Follow Jubilee Avenue and join Beeston Lane so the west entrance to our campus will be on your left.
Beeston Lane will take you around the perimeter of our campus.
As you continue to walk down Beeston Lane, you will see the Humanities Building (55/B4) and three of our catered halls – Ancaster (B/A4), Cavendish (C/B4) and Willoughby (D/B4).
You won't be able to go inside our halls, but you can find more information about them on our accommodation web pages .
You will then walk past David Ross Sports Village (DRSV).
The DRSV offers state-of-the-art facilities for all, including a fitness suite, sports halls, swimming pool, climbing wall, squash courts and much more.
Students living in university halls have access to our sports centres through the complimentary Active Living package .
See our website for the full list of facilities.
Come out of the DRSV, cross the road and walk between Sherwood Hall (G/C2) and Rutland Hall (H/C2) to make your way onto The Downs.
The Downs is a green space often used for celebrations.
To your left are Sherwood (G/C2), Derby (I/C2) and Lincoln (J/D2) halls.
Continue up The Downs and walk between Hugh Stewart (M/E2) and Cripps (L/E2) halls.
Continue to follow the footpath around the back of the visitor car park and past the Sir Clive Granger Building (16/E3), which is home to the School of Geography.
At the end of the path take a left and continue walking until you reach Keighton Auditorium (56/F3).
If you'd like to take a shortcut, you can continue down the footpath along the site of the visitor car park, go down the steps and cross the road.
At the zebra crossing, the Maths Building (20/F3) and Keighton Auditorium (56/F3) will be on your right.
Turn left and ahead is the Physics Building (22/F2) and next to that is George Green Library (24/F2).
George Green Library is in the STEM area of our campus.
It holds books for Engineering and Science students and has accessible study spaces, printers, laptop loans, computers and a café.
Access to the library is limited for the public, but staff at the front desk can answer your questions.
Leave George Green Library through the east exit and our Physics Building (22/F2) will be to your left.
Continue forward through the science quad and turn right at the Chemistry Building (28/F2) to see our Engineering and Science Learning Centre (54/G2).
If you come to the multi-storey Tower Building (37/G2), you've gone too far!
Across from the Chemistry Building is the Engineering and Science Learning Centre (ESLC).
The Faculties of Engineering and Science use the ESLC for teaching and as a space to study.
This building is connected to Coates Building (36/G2) where there is a café with an outdoor seating area which is perfect for a food break when the weather is nice.
The Coates Building is home to engineering project laboratories and lecture theatres.
It is connected to Pope Building (27/F2) where the collaborative and teaching project laboratories are located.
Turn left out of Coates Building and head down Coates Road, you'll see the A52 (Clifton Boulevard) as you reach the edge of our campus.
For step-free access, head out of Coates café, go back into Coates Building and take the lift down to road level.
At the end of the road, turn right and there is a footbridge access to the Medical School, situated in the Queen’s Medical Centre.
The Medical School is home to our Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences students who typically have teaching, clinical and practical sessions here.
Turn around and head back down Coates Road.
On your left are several laboratories and our biosciences facilities.
Continue along the path turning left and head up the steps between Pharmacy (26/F3) and Psychology (29/F3).
At the end of the path, Life Sciences (23/F3) will be on your right.
Alternatively, you can walk past the Psychology Building (29/F3) towards the road, turn right onto Science Road then right again onto East Drive.
Head up East Drive.
East Drive is our main transport hub.
Here you catch the Hopper Bus to Jubilee and Sutton Bonington campuses and the 34 bus to the city centre.
A tram service also runs past the south entrance (F4) to Beeston, the train station and the city.
To your left is the university’s arts centre, Lakeside Arts (49/F3).
And that's our University Park Campus.
To get back to the car park, head back towards to East Drive and go up Keighton Hill.
At the end of the road take a right, cross the road and take the left up to the visitors car park.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/ugstudy/visitingus/visitingus.aspx:
Find out more about exploring the university's many campuses and courses on open days.
If you apply and receive an offer to study at the university, you will be invited to an offer-holder event.
This allows you to visit your school or department, find out detailed course information and explore other aspects of student life at Nottingham.
Our campus tours offer you an opportunity to explore our University Park Campus, guided by a current University of Nottingham student.
These tours are offered on a selection of Wednesdays.
Explore the campuses and facilities online to supplement your visits to the open days, or as an alternative for those that cannot visit us in person.
We welcome school and college groups on to University Park Campus for general visits.
We can offer welcome talks, guided tours and individual programmes tailored to suit the needs of each school.
For information on the wide variety of activities available, please visit Schools and Colleges Outreach.
Find out where to stay, where to eat and what to do when visiting Nottingham and the local area on the Visit Nottinghamshire website.
Student Recruitment Support Hub +44 (0) 115 951 5559 Frequently asked questions Make an enquiry
Connect with The University of Nottingham through social media and our blogs .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/currentstudents/news/uon-ranked-first-for-graduates-entering-highly-skilled-jobs:
We've been ranked first for graduates entering highly skilled jobs, for the fifth year in a row.
The list is compiled from the HESA Graduate Outcomes survey (2021–2025), which tracks the journeys of full-time UK undergraduate and postgraduate students after they leave university.
Your future success matters to us just as much as your time on campus.
Our courses are designed to deepen your subject knowledge, but also to help prepare you for life after university.
We want to help you develop real-world skills, gain practical experiences, make useful connections and thrive in life.
Careers advice: Our careers advisors are here to support you, not just while you're at the university, but for life.
Whether that's choosing a career, help with applications or honing your interview skills.
Get in touch with the team for advice
Connect with top employers: We hold careers fairs throughout the year, where you can come and talk to employers who are keen to recruit you for their internship and graduate opportunities.
We have careers fairs geared towards specific subject areas, plus volunteering fairs and more.
More about careers fairs
Real-world work experience: Gain practical, hands-on workplace experience - from a built-in or optional placement year to our Nottingham Internship Scheme, employer-led projects and part-time job opportunities.
Find out more about work experience
Communications and Marketing University Park Campus Nottingham, NG7 2RD
telephone:+44 (0)115 82 32353 e: studentcommsoffice@nottingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/currentstudents/news/spring-semester-assessment-results:
Assessment results from the Spring assessment period are now available online for marks and award results, unless you have been notified otherwise.
Progression and reassessment information is also available.
Please ensure you check this even if you are aware of your results.
Log in to Blue Castle with your university username and password.
Please note that Blue Castle may be busy as assessment results are released.
We will monitor its performance closely, but please be patient if the system becomes slow or unresponsive.
In the event of this happening, rapidly refreshing the page will increase the traffic and make it harder to access for everyone.
If you have any queries about your assessment results, please check the assessment FAQs in the first instance.
If you still can’t find the answer to your question, contact Student Services or use this link to find the best contact in your school .

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/currentstudents/news/uon-is-a-world-top-100-university:
This is recognition of the academic excellence and vibrant community that makes our university such a special place to study.
In this league table, we have also been ranked 17th overall in the UK comparison of universities.
Our focus is on providing a world-class education and experience, underpinned by outstanding research, and developing the knowledge, skills and attributes sought after by employers to support our graduates to succeed.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/CurrentStudents/News.aspx:
Student news archive

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/studentservices/servicedetails/postgraduate-students/postgraduate-students.aspx:
As a current postgraduate student or researcher at the university, we encourage you to follow our relevant site.
These have been created so you can connect with others in your field and access all the information you need during your journey with us.
The Postgraduate Taught (PGT) community refers to students on a Taught programme such as; Masters, PGDip or PGCE.
This space provides information relating to the services available to you, to support you throughout your degree and beyond.
Explore the services provided by the PGR team to support you through your research journey (PhD, MPhil, MRes, etc) from initial registration up until graduation.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/currentstudents/mature-students/mature-students.aspx:
Mature students are an important part of our community at the University of Nottingham, making up 10% of our student population.
The skills, motivation and life experience they bring is valued across our communities.
Being a mature student can give you an advantage at university, but we understand it can also be a big decision to return to study.
Luckily, there is plenty of support on offer for anyone who is over the age of 21 when enrolling on an undergraduate course, and to help students returning to education after a long break.
On this page you'll find all of the support and resources that have been specifically designed for mature students, but don't forget that it doesn't have to have a 'mature students' label on it for you to use it.
Whether it's disability support, academic skills or career and employability services, you have access to the same opportunities as any other student.
As mature students, we have so much to offer.
We are keen for our careers, we are determined, we are capable.
Taking that first step is scary, but it will all be worth it in the end.
You are destined for so much more
Each faculty offers its own tailored support to mature students.
Click on the faculty that your school/department belongs to below, to find out what support is available for you.
The Faculty of Arts sends dedicated email communications to support mature students throughout the academic year.
If you’re not receiving these communications and would like to, please let us know .
The faculty also organises faculty-wide mature student socials.
To find out more about these, or to suggest other ways we could support mature students, please email us .
For additional information about how the Education and Student Experience Team supports students, please read your weekly departmental bulletin and check your Moodle community hub.
Mature students are an important part of the community in the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences.
Our school-based teams host events and resources to support mature students, creating a unique learning community between staff and students to enhance the student experience.
To find out more about the events or resources, or to suggest other ways we could support mature students, please contact your school using the relevant email below.
We want to help every student feel like they belong within the Faculty of Science and strive to create an excellent learning experience for everyone.
Our school-based teams want to keep supporting mature students in ways that are important to them, so if you have any suggestions or ideas please contact your school using the relevant email below.
Mature students are an important part of the community in the Faculty of Social Sciences.
Our school-based teams provide information and resources to support mature students, creating a unique learning community between staff and students to enhance the student experience.
To find out more, or to suggest other ways we could support mature students, please contact your school using the relevant email below.
Not commenced your studies yet but want to know what support is available in helping you prepare for university?
Find lots of useful information and support about starting university as a mature student, including our Ambition Nottingham: Access programme, which provides information about university and what it's like to study as a mature student, and KickStart, our two-day induction programme for mature students.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/currentstudents/worried-about-assessments/index.aspx:
Assessments play a big part in your university experience, and we know this can be a worrying time.
This webpage has been designed to bring together services and resources to help you prepare for these periods and manage your wellbeing.
We’re here to support you every step of the way throughout your journey with us and we understand that assessments can be a particularly overwhelming time.
That’s why it’s important to take extra care of your wellbeing during these periods.
Please explore the services and resources available to you below and don’t hesitate to engage with them should you feel you need to.
We want to do all we can to make sure you go into your assessments feeling confident and prepared.
There are plenty of resources available to you, which have been summarised below.
These include study planners, revision tips, resources for studying effectively, quiet study spaces and more.
You can also explore our assessment and examinations webpages.
This is where you’ll be able to find key dates and examination timetables as well as information relating to in-person and e-examinations, outcomes and results, exam adjustments and our regulations and policies (eg academic appeals).
Extenuating circumstances (ECs) are events that are unforeseen and out of your control, and we understand that this can affect your performance in assessments or ability to submit your coursework on time.
Some examples may include illness (physical or mental); injury; family illness and bereavement.
Our EC policy is in place to support you should you experience any such instances – make sure you submit your claim at your earliest opportunity so we can ease any anxieties by putting the right measures in place to support you.
There’s also further wellbeing support available should you need it, so please don’t hesitate to reach out for this.
See our full list of acceptable EC circumstances
If you have any questions, a comprehensive list of FAQs - as well as other methods to reach out to us – are featured on the Student Enquiry Centre.
We’ll be holding a range of webinars and drop-in sessions where you can receive expert advice from our university staff.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/careers/students:
Supporting current students
Login to MyCareer
Whether you have a career in mind or are just getting started exploring your options, we are here to help.
We're committed to helping you on your way to a career you love, and making the most of your time at Nottingham.
Whether you want to speak to an adviser for help with your CV, discuss career ideas, gain work experience or prioritise your wellbeing, we have the support to help.
No post-uni plans?
No problem.
If you can't decide what you'll do, we're here to help
Where to look for vacancies and routes into careers in the UK and overseas
Find part-time work, internships, placements and volunteering options
Help and advice if you're not sure what you want to do in the future
Advice on CVs, psychometric tests, interviews and more
Meet employers, explore jobs and sector and improve your job-hunting skills
Develop work-related skills through The Nottingham Advantage Award (NAA) by completing extracurricular modules.
International students Navigating the workplace
Call us +44 (0) 115 951 3680

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/library/support/libraries.aspx:
Whether you are a new or returning student, we can help you make the most of our libraries.
Your introduction to our library services and resources
Locations, opening times and facilities
Finding and using drop-in and bookable spaces
Help with academic, information and digital skills
How to borrow books from our libraries
How to search our library collections

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/currentstudents/study-support/study-skills-and-support.aspx:
There are plenty of services, support and resources available to help you succeed with your studies and continue to develop your skills.
View our courses covering academic skills like writing, critical thinking and presentations as well as language development courses in grammar, vocabulary, pronunciation or conversation
Access help with finding your resources, critical reading, expressing criticality and argument in your writing and presentations as well as essential digital skills for university and the workplace
Book one-to-one support with one of our tutors and cover any area of academic skills you would like to focus on
Explore a range of specialist online and in-person courses, exclusively for postgraduate research students and early career researchers
Refine your academic writing with this 10-credit module that you can study alongside your course modules.
The module enhances research, writing and critical reading skills.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/currentstudents/studentsunion/index.aspx:
“We believe in better, and we will achieve it together”
The Students' Union is the recognised voice of student representation at the University of Nottingham.
An independent charity - separate to the University - the Students’ Union creates positive change to improve students’ lives within the University through partnership working, lobbying, and campaigns.
Any student who has something that they would like to see improved at the University can make their voice heard using the established structures and support processes within the Students’ Union – including course reps, committees, campaigning groups, elected Officers, and union policy.
The University of Nottingham values the work of the Students’ Union and the representation it provides is highly influential in the decision making of all aspects of the institution.
The elected Officers of the Students’ Union sit on every major decision-making body that runs the University, including the University Council, University Executive Board Committees and working groups on every aspect of teaching, learning and the student experience.
The Students’ Union is never afraid to challenge the University where they believe students want something changed and works to empower students so that they can make their points positively, respectfully and with impact to effect real change.
More details about how to engage with the Students’ Union to raise an issue can be found at: https://su.nottingham.ac.uk/make-change
The Union offers over 300 clubs and societies, volunteering opportunities, a student magazine ( Impact ), TV station ( NSTV ), and radio station ( URN ) for you to get involved with, so you can be assured that there is something for everyone to enjoy.
There is also support available for financial, welfare and course-related issues, should you need it.
Please contact the Student Union Advice Centre for independent advice and support.
The Students' Union is here to ensure you have the most incredible time at the University of Nottingham.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/student-living/index.aspx:
Accommodation | Residential Experience | Community Engagement
Student Living is the foundation of your journey at the University of Nottingham.
We help support you through the transition into independant living and out into the community.
Your university experience is unique to you, and we want to help you make it the best experience possible.
Supporting your personal growth and wellbeing as well as providing award winning accommodation.
Community
Wellbeing
Support
Student Living at Nottingham is made up of three key teams.
Find out more about our teams below.
Find your new home
Connect.
Grow.
Thrive
Supporting you while living off campus
Find out more about the important services we offer whether you're an applicant or already here.
Take a look at our award winning halls and find the perfect place for you.
Get a taste of life on campus with our ResX Events, designed to help you connect, grow and thrive.
We have lots of your questions already answered, find out more.
In July 2020, Nottingham City Council (NCC), Nottingham Trent University (NTU) and the University of Nottingham (UoN), along with five other pivotal organisations, launched the Universities for Nottingham Civic Agreement.
This Agreement is underpinned by a recognition that the two universities are integrally linked to the place and people of Nottingham and that a productive and supportive relationship is mutually beneficial.
The universities enhance the life of the city culturally, economically and socially, and the city enhances the lives of their staff and students through its built and natural environment, culture and hospitality.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/currentstudents/standards-of-behaviour/standards-of-behaviour.aspx:
We're committed to fostering an environment that values and respects all members of the university community.
We expect everyone to conduct themselves in a manner that upholds the values of inclusivity, fairness and respect.
The Student Code of Conduct provides a framework for addressing behaviour that is not in line with these values.
All students agree to comply with the Code of Conduct as part of studying at the University of Nottingham, so it is important you have read and understood it.
Student Code of Conduct
We aim to provide a safe and supportive environment for everyone, and to ensure our campuses are inclusive places to study and work.
As with any community, however, sometimes issues can arise and we want to support staff and students to be able to report these.
You can tell us about any issues of unacceptable behaviour, such as bullying, harassment and victimisation, discrimination, domestic abuse, hate incidents and sexual assault or violence, and access support using Report and Support.
Report and Support
Our student community is an incredibly diverse one, comprising a vast range of identities, backgrounds and lived experiences.
Find out what we do to support students from different backgrounds.
Stronger Together

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/alumni/learn/learn.aspx:
Whether you're looking for professional skills and insights or personal motivation and inspiration, we have a great range of alumni activities to help you grow who and what you know.
Develop your skills and hear unique insights from our community and industry speakers on a wide range of topics selected by alumni.
Join the Deans of our UK, China and Malaysia campuses for this online event to wrap-up Nottingham University Business School's 25th anniversary celebrations
Join university expert Dr Maria Toledo-Rodriguez to learn how to train your brain into a 'growth mindset' and embrace opportunities which come your way.
Personal Performance Coach Julie Littlewood (Biomedical Sciences, 1999) explains how to build confidence in your own abilities and take the next step, wherever you are in your career.
Hear from a panel of expert alumni as they delve into the rapidly growing world of financial technology and its impact on the global economy.
Anna Mosley (Management and French, 2005), a leading Performance & Mindset Coach, lends a fresh perspective to overcoming imposter syndrome.
Our alumni expert Jacky Francis Walker (Counselling Studies, 1999) shares the tell tale signs of burnout and provides techniques to prevent it happening at all.
Learn how to set goals which align to your nature with insights from writer and motivational speaker Shivali Bhammer (Economics and Philosophy, 2008).
In this session learn more about NUBS's unique new programme to help businesses prepare for a digital future from Dr Andrew Callaghan.
Explore the concept of growing a workplace strategy based on kindness.
Explore the benefits and challenges of different working styles.
Cadro co-founder Jordan Buck (Geography, 2009) discusses his experiences starting a fintech company and shares his thoughts on the latest themes in the sector.
Discover how to solve problems and influence change across organisational boundaries.
Our latest webinar series, Grow, features alumni from a wide range of sectors who share their top tips to help you to develop your professional skills and build your personal attributes.
Michael Skok shares his insights, gained over 40 years as an entrepreneur.
Fast-track your career with IJ Samuel's top tips.
Could screwing up be the secret ingredient to your success?
Our alumni programme is here to help you to grow and thrive professionally and personally.
There’s so much more to come – here are some of the highlights of our upcoming programme.
Our seminars promote the latest in research and thinking from Nottingham University Business School.
Hear from our inspirational speakers, with unique insights you won't find anywhere else.
Learn a new skill with our immersive masterclasses, hosted by experts in their field.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/alumni/community/community.aspx:
Be part of something bigger, something stronger.
Join one of our LinkedIn groups to grow your professional networks.
Connect with alumni and academics around the world.
Our awards celebrate and share the stories of how you carry Nottingham's values into the world.
Memories of and tributes to members of our alumni community who have passed.
We're here to help you keep connected (or reconnect!) with alumni across our community.
Join us for our exclusive alumni events, digitally or in person.
Learn new skills, make professional connections and give back to the community by volunteering for the university.
Register your interest to find out about our opportunities.
Browse volunteering opportunities

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/alumni/community/class-of-2025.aspx:
Find out how your alumni programme, Connected we thrive, can support you.
Whether you plan on securing a job, taking time out to discover your career path, or are considering further study, your exclusive alumni programme Connected we thrive is here to help you grow who and what you know.
We regularly host exclusive webinars, sharing insight from academic staff and alumni who are experts in their fields – it's a great way to build your knowledge and learn practical tips.
You can catch up with our entire back catalogue for free and will receive email invitations to future events.
Webinars include:
Grow your personal brand
Grow your ambition
How to embrace and overcome imposter syndrome
How to banish burnout
How to succeed at career transitions
And many more!
Building your personal and professional networks can be one of the key steps in progressing your career – and we're here to help you make the connections.
We run in-person events across the world, including our Live talks , informal 'Nottingham Nights' gatherings and much more, all designed to help you meet alumni and leave inspired!
We also signpost online networking forums like LinkedIn groups and even informal university society groups open to alumni, like Blowsoc and hockey, ensuring your Nottingham connections last.
Achieving your degree and graduating from university is a cause for celebration!
You will be securing a valuable qualification and gaining a huge amount of experience, but we know that there can be a lot to think about as you leave education for the world of work.
The university's Careers and Employability Service is here to help with a host of options for Nottingham graduates, including:
A 'jobs by email' bulletin for graduate and work experience vacancies.
The opportunity to make an appointment with dedicated careers advisers.
Access to employer recruitment events and careers fairs .
Frequent blog posts from the team with hints, tips and inspiration!
You can also volunteer with us and inspire students following your path into the world of work.
Visit our Learn library
View our full Events listing
Visit the Careers and Employability Service
One of the best ways to cultivate professional relationships as you enter the world of work is by networking, and our informal in-person events provide the perfect opportunity for you to do so.
We host events across the globe, from here on campus in Nottingham to Asia and almost everywhere in between - they are open to all alumni from our three campuses in the UK, Malaysia and China.
What's coming up near you
Our dedicated events listing will be updated regularly as new locations open for registration and we will also email all Class of 2025 graduates with the details!
We post event invites, news updates and a whole host more on our social media channels – if you don't follow us already, then make sure you stay connected!
Join us on Tuesday 16 September at either 9am or 6pm BST to find out why Nottingham should still be a part of your life as a graduate!
From growing your professional networks, finding your first job and continuing to fuel your learning, we’re here to help.
Network : our autumn events programme spans four continents, giving you the opportunity to grow your networks.
We’ll be kicking off this September in Africa, followed by Asia, Europe and North America.
Learn : hear about our upcoming webinars, designed to fuel your learning and help you to thrive professionally and personally.
Recent topics include ‘ How to Land Your Next Job’ and ‘ How to Deal with Difficult People’ .
Careers : our Careers and Employability team will be talking about the options available to Nottingham graduates and happy to answer your questions.
Volunteer: volunteering is a great way for you to learn new skills and make professional connections.
Hear how to benefit from becoming a volunteer.
Register for the 9am webinar
Register for the 6pm webinar
During the registration process for graduation you will have been given the choice to opt in to receive emails from your alumni team as a Nottingham graduate, including event invites, monthly newsletters and other must-read content!
If you haven't done so already, you can update your contact details with us.
Update your details
One of the simplest and most valuable actions you will be asked to take as a Nottingham graduate is responding to the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) Graduate Outcomes survey .
You will be contacted by email, text or phone call 15 months after your graduation, inviting you to fill in a short survey about your university experience and subsequent career path, which will take less than 10 minutes of your time.
Sharing perspectives on your time at Nottingham helps us continually improve our offer for the students that will follow in your footsteps and maintain our standing as a Russell Group university.
In the meantime, it's why it's a great idea to make use of the university's Careers and Employability Service , to give you the best possible start to your post-university life!
If you need any further help or support, we're available Monday to Friday, 9am – 5pm.
Drop us an email and say hello!

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/alumni/community/international.aspx:
Find out more about our global alumni community and how you can connect with your local networks.
Below you can find details for local groups, meet our International Alumni Ambassadors in your region and take a look at our events programme to discover our international alumni activities.
Our International Alumni Ambassadors help establish and grow local alumni networks, as well as providing support for our international alumni events.
University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC) also has its own global alumni chapters, which Nottingham graduates from all campuses are welcome to join.
If you would like more information about becoming an International Alumni Ambassador, please contact our team.
Take a look at our exclusive events programme to discover our international alumni activities.
If there are any groups which are not listed here, you want to set up a local network, or if you need help getting in touch with a particular group, our International Volunteering and Advocacy team are available to help.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/alumni/community/networks.aspx:
There are a range of alumni networks, both professional and personal, for you to meet your peers.
There are a range of alumni networks available for you to meet your peers and connect with your global alumni community.
Below you will find links to our professional and personal networks.
You can find links to our international networks here .
Join us on one of our LinkedIn groups:
If there are any more networks you are aware of, or if you're trying to get in touch with a particular group, send us an email and we'll try and help.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/alumni/community/your-nottingham-alumni-awards.aspx:
Our awards celebrate your amazing contributions and share the stories of how you carry Nottingham's values into the world.
Nottingham is more than a place.
It shapes who we are and the people we become.
It's a way of thinking and of being.
Your Nottingham Alumni Awards celebrate you – our alumni community – and share the stories of how you carry Nottingham's values into the world.
No two paths or experiences are the same; that's what makes our community so special.
Our awards are designed to reflect this rich diversity and the amazing contributions being made in so many different ways.
The awards actively seek nominations of alumni from all communities, particularly those within often underrepresented groups.
The hundreds of nominations we received this year were truly inspiring, spanning many different countries, sectors and achievements and demonstrating impact in such a huge range of spheres and communities.
We're proud of the positive impact that our alumni make – meet our 2025 winners.
Ruth Chambers graduated in medicine from the University of Nottingham in 1975.
She has written 84 books – mainly for clinicians (some translated, for example Japanese); including her insightful memoir of working for the NHS for 50 years.
She has presented at national and international conferences, and aided national guidance such as rebutting prescribing fraud, combatting doctors' stress; and led on enhancing the quality of care and digital primary care transformation across Staffordshire (being awarded an OBE in 2014).
Alongside these at scale achievements, Ruth created a local scheme for refugee doctors from 2004, six of whom now practice in the UK as GPs or psychiatrists.
Comment from the judges: This nominee has supported refugees to start a new life in the UK, at a time of a great shortage of NHS doctors.
She guided six refugee doctors through this process, and the number of patients who will benefit will be vast.
The judges selected Ruth for embodying the value of ambition for her support of refugee doctors.
Arta Istrefi is a leading voice in women’s entrepreneurship in the Western Balkans.
She holds a PhD in Business Administration with a focus on women entrepreneurs in the region.
Arta is the Co-Founder of Narwhal Network, Country Program Officer at the Swiss Entrepreneurship Program, and a lecturer in Entrepreneurship and Innovation at Heimerer College.
Her work spans startup mentorship for women across Southeast Europe, digital transformation, and advocacy for marginalised groups, including survivors of gender-based violence.
With an MSc in Economic Development and Policy Analysis from the University of Nottingham, she brings both academic insight and practical leadership to the ecosystem.
Comment from the judges:
This nominee’s work helping women start businesses, supporting survivors of trauma, and improving education has made a real and lasting difference to people’s lives,  inspiring others to take action and make a positive impact.
The judges selected Arta for embodying the value of inclusivity for her commitment to women’s entrepreneurship.
Lauren Leyva is a multi-award-winning campaigner, creator, business owner, and home cook, with a mission to inspire eating well and conscious living.
Collaborating with charities, supermarkets, global brands and non-profits, including The King’s Trust, she champions independence through cooking workshops, while campaigning to raise awareness of global food poverty, overconsumption and waste.
During the pandemic, she led BBC Radio’s “Tasty Tuesdays”, advising the public on how to cook nutritious meals throughout national food shortages and panic buying.
Her work has earned her a Thought Leadership Tastemaker Award, Top Woman to Watch title, and UK Youth Awards finalist recognition.
Comment from the judges: This nominee, a recent graduate, has made significant impact through educating and inspiring young people.
Issues such as global food poverty, food waste, and environmental consciousness are tackled through her platform.
The judges selected Lauren for embodying the value of openness for her zeal in tackling food poverty both locally and globally.
Deepali Misra-Sharp is a GP, British Menopause Society Advanced Menopause Specialist and Trainer, and a passionate advocate for women’s health.
She works full-time as an NHS GP and Women’s Health Specialist, where she has led the development of dedicated menopause services and upskilled clinicians in holistic care.
In recognition of her impact, she was awarded a Fellowship of the Royal College of General Practitioners (RCGP) for her contribution to women’s health.
She regularly comments on national media articles, helping to raise awareness and improve understanding of menopause and midlife women’s health.
Comment from the judges: Support for those going through the menopause is crucially important.
The impact this nominee has had is long-term and tangible, from working in hospitals, providing workshops, and the publication of articles.
The judges selected Deepali for embodying the value of inclusivity for her passionate advocacy for women’s health.
Yakubu Salifu, a nurse and lecturer in Palliative Care at Lancaster University, is a dedicated advocate and researcher committed to improving access to compassionate care in Ghana and beyond.
As the co-founder of COMPASS-Ghana , a charity developed from his PhD, he has played a pivotal role in integrating palliative care into healthcare systems, ensuring holistic and dignified support for patients.
His internationally supported work contributes to policy development and capacity-building.
A proud University of Nottingham alumnus, he embodies inclusivity, ambition and fairness, making a global impact.
He has co-authored three book chapters, including a chapter on Death and Dying .
Comment from the judges: This nominee’s work is life changing for both recipients and families.
There’s a critical unmet need for end-of-life care in Ghana, so establishing COMPASS-Ghana as a recent graduate is both impressive and impactful.
The judges selected Yakubu for embodying the value of fairness for his pivotal role advocating for improved integration of palliative care.
Rajesh Talwar, the author of 42 books spanning multiple genres, has served the United Nations for over two decades across three continents.
Assignments include working as Executive Officer, chairing the Secretariat to the Human Rights Advisory Panel for the United Nations Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK).
He studied an LLM in International Human Rights Law at the University of Nottingham on a British Chevening Scholarship.
Notable publications include The Third Sex and Human Rights , based on his LLM dissertation, Courting Injustice: The Nirbhaya Case and its Aftermath , and most recently, The Mahatma’s Manifesto: A Critique of Hind Swaraj .
Comment from the judges: This nominee has had a global impact, contributing to human rights and sustainability through policy change and education, such as writing a play on toxic terror and a book on caste discrimination.
The judges selected Rajesh for embodying the value of respect for his dedication to the cause of human rights.
Meet our 2023 and 2024 winners and discover what receiving an award means to the recipients.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/alumni/community/organise-a-reunion.aspx:
Nottingham is the place where so many friendships first began.
Whether you need some advice on the current Nottingham hotspots to gather with your friends or want to organise something more formal on our campuses we're here to help.
What is the reason for getting people together?
Are you celebrating a graduation anniversary, do you want to revisit old haunts on campus or simply want to reconnect with your classmates?
The reason usually shapes the theme of the event.
Choosing the right date and time is important.
Events during public holidays and in the week can sometimes be difficult as guests may have other plans.
Will the event be in the UK, overseas, on campus or in your back garden?
Wherever it is going to be held, we'd love to hear about it and give you the support you need.
Are you in touch with your proposed guests or would you like our support to make contact with a specific group?
It's up to you who you'd like to invite – whether it's old classmates, neighbours from halls or friends who started in the same year!
Our Alumni Engagement team is available to help you through the process.
We can provide support by:

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/alumni/community/remembering-our-alumni.aspx:
With sadness, the university records the deaths of the following alumni.
Please use the drop-down menus to select the year of graduation.
You can send notifications of passing and your obituaries to alumni-enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk .
If you'd like to explore making a donation in memory of a loved one or how you can remember them on campus, please contact inmemory@nottingham.ac.uk .
Edward Andrew Richardson, Modern European History - 7 October 2023
Parameswaran (Hari) Narayanan, Sports and exercise medicine - 30 December 2023
William Eyssautier, Infrastructure - 2017
Richard Garner, Philosophy - 11 June 2011
Stephen James Hamilton, Music - May 2012
Donald Hartley, Combined Studies - March 2017
Robin Augustin Lo, Music - 30 July 2012
Charles Anthony Sangster, Viking Studies - April 2013
Johanna Stapleton, French and Francophone Studies - August 2010
Dr John Warnock, Honorary Degree - 19 August 2023
For a full obituary, please see The Guardian
Said Alzebda, Electrical and Electronic Engineering - December 2023
Dr Said Alzebda was a highly regarded student in Electrical, Electronics and Communications Engineering at the University of Nottingham and began a Qur'an school in the local community in Nottingham.
Upon his return to Palestine, Dr Said joined the University College of Applied Sciences (UCAS) in Gaza.
He went on to found and direct the UCAS Technology Incubator Hub, UCASTI.
He started the Technology Incubator Hub with two employees.
It then grew to become the biggest technology hub in Palestine.
UCASTI provided a dynamic and collaborative environment, offering mentorship, skill development, funding opportunities, networking events, and market access support to propel startups toward success.
Hundred of young entrepreneurs and researchers benefited from the hub.
His success story led the board of trustees of UCAS University to persuade him to become the president of the University.
He became the youngest president of any University in Palestine.
During his presidency, in less than 3 years, the number of students had doubled.
UCAS opened new modern courses, attracting high profile academics, opening new labs, and renovating the university facilities.
On 31 December 2023, Said, his wife Ikram Ghanem, also an alumna of the university, and their 3 children Ezzedine, Intisar and Sumaya were all killed in the ongoing conflict in Israel and Gaza.
A great loss to humanity that will never be forgotten by those who are blessed to have known them.
This brief obituary has been kindly supplied by colleagues and friends of Dr Alzebda.
Emma Beal, Animal Science - 28 September 2017
Emma became ill during her finals and was subsequently diagnosed with an adult-onset genetic condition called mitochondrial disease.
Just before she died, Emma was instrumental in setting up a charity www.mymitomission.uk to raise awareness and funds for research for this little-known illness, which is nonetheless one of the most common genetic conditions.
Emma’s legacy also extends to aiding research via her express wish to donate tissue to medical science after her death, exemplifying her inspirational generosity of spirit, kindness and courage.
Obituary kindly supplied by Emma's mother Christine Beal and father Peter Beal.
Ikram Ghanem, Management of Information Technology - December 2023
Ikram Ghanem was born in June 1982 and was killed on 31st December 2023 in the ongoing conflict in Israel and Gaza, along with her husband, Said A.
Alzebda, and three children, Ezzedine, Intisar, and Sumaya.
Her journey from Gaza to Nottingham and back again tells a story of hope, sacrifice, dedication, love for life, success, and resilience.
Ikram and her husband moved to Nottingham in 2006, where they pursued academic goals at the University of Nottingham - her husband for his PhD, and she later joined for her Master's degree in the hope of enhancing her chances of working and supporting her family in Gaza.
During their stay, the city of Nottingham and the spaces at the University of Nottingham became the backdrop to some of the family's happiest moments, as the couple nurtured their young family and forged lasting memories in its parks and communities.
Recognising Ikram, not only acknowledges her and her family's tragic end, but also reaffirms the value of every member of the University of Nottingham's global alumni community.
Finally, my friend Ikram honoured the University of Nottingham in her ongoing reflections and memories, cherishing and sharing photos of her children in the university's park, and listing the University of Nottingham as one of her alma maters on her Facebook profile.
She tragically left this world, and despite all the horror she felt before she was killed, her final chosen Facebook cover picture still depicted the Jubilee Campus from which she graduated.
This obituary has been kindly supplied by friends of Ms Ghanem.
Thomas Johnstone, Medicinal and Biological Chemistry - 20 August 2016
Sheila Omuri, Economics - 28 June 2011
Stuart Tyrer, Archaeology - 10 April 2012
YuanQi Wu, Biological Photography and Imaging - 3 February 2023
YuanQi Wu graduated from the MSc in Biological Photography and Imaging in 2011 and returned to China.
He became a leading voice in creating and producing Chinese wildlife projects.
He worked with other alumni such as Xinyang Hong on the wildlife of Tibet and went on to develop professional links with many internationally renowned documentary makers such as Jacky Poon and Mark Fletcher among others.
A number of his projects have been nominated for and won awards.
These included Mystery Monkeys of Shangri-La which was been nominated for the 2016 Emmy Award for outstanding nature programming category and Pandas: Born to be Wild, which premiered in October 2020 and was nominated for the Wildlife Film Festival (Rotterdam) award.
This included the first footage of wild pandas mating.He was a strong proponent of conservation and made use of his position to encourage the conservation and preservation of the natural world.
His legacy was important and significant and he is greatly missed.
Obituary provided by Tom Hartman, Programme Chair, MSc Biological Photography and Imaging, Faculty of Medicine & Health Sciences.
Adeyanju Charles-Eigbe, Education - March 2012
Celia Clayton, Biological Photography and Imaging - April 2020
Emma-Louise Fletcher, Psychology - 9 May 2012
Sahil Malde, Pharmacy - 12 July 2023
Ariel Olson, Biology - 20 April 2012
Daniel Aslan, Manufacturing Engineering - 29 March 2017
Emma Cole, English - May 2017
Reverend John Gayford, Church History
Alastair Lynn, Nutrition - 2024
Dr Oswald ("Ossie") Newell MBE, Honorary Degree - 2020
Rosalie Samuel, Counselling
Matthew Stansfield, Mathematics - 2015
Adam Stanfield, Sociology - 9 July 2012
Victor Tudorica, Biochemistry and Biological Chemistry - 24 February 2016
Prinka 'Pinky' Chumba, Mental Health Nursing - 8 September 2017
Ishan Patel, Business and Economy of Contemporary China
Hannah Browning, Modern Languages with Business - 11 May 2018
Michael Ridley, English - February 2019
Siân Hewitt, Cultural Sociology - 6 April 2019
Siân died in hospital, very suddenly, after a short illness.
Following her studies at Nottingham she completed a Masters at Leicester University sponsored by the Wellcome Trust.
In addition to her successful studies she volunteered throughout her undergraduate years for Phab and Intouniversity helping disadvantaged children.
She continued to work with a number of charities after she graduated.
Siân had recently started a new career with the Foreign and Commonwealth Office.
Siân remained very close to friends she made at Nottingham University.
Obituary kindly supplied by Siân's mother Kath.
Professor Edward Cocking DSc FRS, Honorary Degree - 2023
Francesco Berti, Medicine - March 2023
James Howard, History - 2023
Robert Curtis, Geography - August 2020 Described by his teachers as an ‘unusually exceptional student’, two core passions of Robbie’s were philosophy and travelling, which he put into practice in his gap year when he spent time in Sri Lanka and India.
Robbie also had a huge concern for environmental issues, apparent from the age of 12 when, by selling his toys on the beach, he collected enough money to save a few acres of Amazon rainforest.
The R World Foundation is now established in his honour, dedicated to improving our world by targeting mental health and international development, two causes close to Robbie’s heart.
Robbie Curtis passed away on 17 August 2020.
Dr (Deirdre) Diane Beale, Applied Psychology - 4 March 2016
Lucy Booth, Behavioural Science
Richard Dunham, Engineering - 2011
Donald Ebohon, Law - 22 June 2010
Natalie Flewitt, Art History - 2007
Christopher Gibson, Politics - March 2008
Former University student Christopher Gibson died March 2008 of a brain tumour, aged 29.
Chris graduated from the University of Nottingham July 2000 with a BA Honours Degree in Politics.
He went on to study at the University of Luton where he was admitted to the Degree of Master of Science with Distinction in Internet Technologies in 2005.
Chris worked as a Systems Analyst in Leeds until the summer of 2007.
Throughout his illness Chris remained positive and continued to pursue his passions of travel, green issues, cricket and real ale.
During what was to be his final months Chris worked on the web site of Manorlands Hospice, where he attended as a day patient.
The Mascot Gold Cup Charity Race held at Wetherby Race Course in April 2008 was dedicated to Chris' memory.
Chris will be greatly missed by all his family and friends.
Obituary kindly supplied by Chris' parents Sue and Richard Gibson.
Louisa Hanson, Nursing
Daniel Haxell, Mathematics - 1 July 2006
Norma Hazzledine MBE (née Smith), International Education Professionals - August 2024
Fatt Kwang Kew, Mechanical Engineering - 8 October 2011
Stephanie Kirby, Nursing - August 2011
Katherine MacKenzie, Urban Planning and Management - October 2015
Paul Richardson, Environmental Life Science - 2009
Donna Rix, Human Genetics - June 2018
Helen Snelders, Philosophy - August 2008
Tonko Viel, Continuing Professional Development and School Imp - March 2006
Mary Arthur, Archaeology - November 2008
Graeme Bell, Executive Version - 14 April 2011
Rosalia Carnero, Psychology
Anne Chambers, Local and Regional History
David Culpin, Continuing Education
Wendy Edmunds, British and Irish Art - 30 October 2007
Janet Faulkner, English Studies - 24 June 2010
Alexander Gardener, Physics
Dr Alexander Gardener completed a Physics degree, and continued his education with a Masters and a PhD at Nottingham.
After completing his PhD, Alex worked in the Peter Mansfield Centre, undertaking research until he left for pastures new at Oxford University.
Before he passed away, Alex was Head of Physics at a secondary school in Cheshire.
Obituary kindly supplied by his sister, Amy Walsh.
Claire Hopkin, Occupational Psychology - August 2018
Anthony Howard, Hon LLD - 19 December 2010
Angus Hutchison-Brown, Computer Science - May 2008
Whilst living life to the full in Switzerland, has recently died due to a tragic accident.
Nicholas Platts, Economics
Alan Reffold, Civil Engineering - 2008
Christopher Thompson, Neuroscience - 4 September 2005
Timothy (Tim) Weston, Chemistry – 19 December 2021
Timothy Weston who studied for a MSci at Nottingham from 1997–2001 died of brain cancer on December 19 aged 43.
Tim grew up living with his parents Janet and Philip and sister Alex in Kent.
He always showed great curiosity and did well at primary school.
Afterwards he went to The Judd School, Tonbridge where he made firm friendships, joined in outings, holidays and activities and played rugby for the school.
He was also a Queen’s Scout and had been a champion at the local chess club.
Tim was awarded a place at Nottingham University where he was in Cripps Hall studying for a MSci in Chemistry.
After graduating he followed a successful IT career initially starting with a local firm which had given him holiday work.
He travelled all over the country providing technical support involving installing and training in voice recording equipment.
Unfortunately, just over two years later at the end of 2003 he was diagnosed with a brainstem glioma.
Fortunately, the tumour was very indolent at first and he remained stable for a long time enabling him to lead a very full life working in Hong Kong and Singapore for seven years.
He covered Asia, travelling widely both for work and pleasure with some energy thinking nothing of going to Australia, Cambodia or Japan for a long weekend.
He became a leading light in the ex-pat community and made lasting friendships, enjoying a real gift for keeping up with people.
Tim returned to live in Tunbridge Wells five years ago after becoming sick and underwent radio and chemotherapy.
This worked at first and he was able to travel to Australia and return to Hong Kong for his 40th birthday.
But Tim became more ill during the last 18 months as the cancer spread and died at the Hospice in the Weald, Pembury.
Tim fought his illness bravely, supported by his wonderful wife Zoe whom he met in Hong Kong.
They married in Wakehurst Place, West Sussex with more guests from overseas than the UK.
He always lived life to the full, making the best use of every opportunity coming his way.
He enjoyed snooker and darts and above all was a keen Liverpool Football Club supporter.
Tim followed in his father’s Philip’s footsteps going to Nottingham (Physics 1971) although the idea of studying at the same place as his Dad nearly put him off applying!
But the course and the campus won him over.
Here he learned the value of serendipity when he accidentally used the wrong formula to make crystals and they turned out far more impressive than ever before… He greatly valued his time at Nottingham, was secretary of the bowling club and always interested in what was happening at the University.
When he lived out for the last three years in Beeston, he had the same three housemates throughout.
He kept in regular contact with them, and they all came to his memorial service in January.
Obituary kindly supplied by Tim's mother Janet Weston.
Judith Barlow, Problem-Centred Interventions - December 2011
Roger Cotter, Law - 16 May 2011
Jane Dawson, Business Administration - 13 June 2006
George Gretton, Law with Chinese Law - August 2018
John Hogarth, Local History - 2023
Brian Jones, Local History - 1 September 2008
Philip Owen, Local and Regional History - 24 May 2020
Dr Sally Pollard (Chappell, née Plummer), Clinical Laboratory Sciences - 16 June 2017
David Pool, Building Environment Engineering - 31 May 2018
Graham Shaw, Art History - May 2016
Ann-Marie Shirley (née Ward), Modern European Studies - August 2020
Ann-Marie was a much loved and well-respected primary school teacher.
She died from cancer in August 2020, leaving behind her husband and son.
She will be sorely missed by all who had the privilege of knowing her.
Obituary kindly supplied by Ann-Marie's husband Alex.
Natalia Bergier, Ancient History and Archaeology - 3 September 2013
Jamal Bidour, Business and Management - 6 July 2011
Ken Brand, Honorary Degree - 17 January 2022
Isabelle Drew, Visual Arts
Rox Dixon, Russian - 6 December 2010
Tim Morris, Economics - 22 January 2012
Anya Peftibay, Management Studies - 2017
Mary Sheard, Education - 26 July 2014
Tribute and biography at the University of York .
Pam York, Local and Regional History - 11 September 2019
Pam had suffered from myeloma for a number of years and sadly passed away on 11th September 2019 in Ashgate Hospice near Chesterfield.
Obituary kindly supplied by Cliff York.
Dr Mark Asquith, Biology - 7 June 2019
Cheryl Barnard, Education - March 2009
Anne-Gaelle Dupouy, Management - 16 September 2013
Jacqueline Emery, Medicine
Roger Hurt, Local History - 2013
Dr Edward Llewellyn-Jones, Theology - 25 January 2021
Gareth Lockyer, Mechanical Engineering - February 2014
Danny Lynham, Chemistry - 30 August 2012
Gillian Makin Jackson (née Bell), Theological and Pastoral Studies - 1 March 2025
Hayden Miles, Geography Business and the Environment - 12 October 2021
Frances Morris, Theological and Pastoral Studies - 2013
Lesley Nightingale (née Etches), Nursing - 26 November 2012
Dr Christopher Robinson, Archaeology - 29 April 2017
Sarah Stark, Nursing
Paul Winstone, Theological and Pastoral Studies - 2006
John Abnett, Civil Engineering - May 2008
Alexander Baker, German and History - 1 August 2015
Katherine Courts, French Studies - 10 March 2006
Michelle Denyer (née Rigley), Psychosocial Interventions - 2 October 2009
Dr Xiang Lin, Chemistry
Joseph Miller, Law - 1 December 2016
David Pearce, Adult Critical Care - 11 January 2010
Jacquelynne Peterson (née Hynd), Combination Studies - 7 November 2007
Mary Pratt (née Johnstone), Children's Health Care (Mental Health)
Dr Lee Stapleton, Environmental Modelling - 11 June 2021
Richard Waddington, Electronic and Computer Engineering - 4 December 2009
Emma Walker, French and Philosophy - 10 July 2024
Joanna Wright, Civil Engineering - 2006
John Bacon, Agriculture - May 2008
Valerie Coslett (née Dearmun), Nursing - January 2018
Sarah Gamble, Nursing - 23 July 2010
Margaret Herrington, PhD, Education - 2022
My mother, Margaret Herrington, who has died aged 75, was a literacy tutor and academic who promoted a better understanding of dyslexia.
She started working life as a lecturer in further education colleges in Leicester, but spent much of her early career (1977-90) as an adult literacy tutor on the tough estates in the city.
She combined this with setting up adult literacy conferences and courses in the Midlands.
Before long she was organising nationally - she helped establish RaPAL, a national network of research and practice in adult literacy - and in the 90s set up some of the first student support centres in universities, including at Leicester and Nottingham.
She was a passionate believer in lifelong learning: later in life she completed an MEd (1987) and a PhD (2007) at Nottingham University.
Margaret also developed approaches on how best to train teachers and lecturers in adult literacy.
This work led to conferences overseas, external examiner roles, books and articles.
She ended her career as visiting professor of education at the University of Wolverhampton, from 2003 to 2009.
Throughout her life, she used her sharp intellect to improve the situation of vulnerable young adults who had previously been written off.
She was born in Wigan, to Edith (nee Aspinall), a seamstress, and Jim Pey, a retail manager.
After leaving the local Notre Dame high school, she graduated in 1967 in history and economics as part of the initial intake at Lancaster University.
She met Paul Herrington there; they married in 1967 and moved to Leicester, and Margaret completed a PGCE in 1968.
My mother juggled bringing up four children with a determined and passionate approach to adult literacy, student support and opening up conversations about dyslexia in adults, in which she became an expert.
She embraced life fully and was deeply curious about the world.
Her foray into amateur dramatics in the 1970s was part of a love of theatre and the arts; she also travelled widely, inspiring her children to do likewise.
She supported village life, treasured many friendships and often created a huge mess with her grandchildren.
Later in life, she wrote to politicians and corporations with a regular stream of advice.
Paul died in 2019.
Margaret is survived by her children, Kate, Nancy, Damian and me, her grandchildren, Daisy, Simeon, Florence and Eve, and her siblings, Joe, Anne and Jimmy.
Obituary provided by Dominic Herrington.
Charles Hurt, Local History
Graham Mclellan, Nursing
Chetan Patel, Chemistry - August 2010
Stephen Roberts, Nursing - 21 August 2017
It is with a heavy heart we have to inform the School of Nursing Students of 0309 Cohort (Adult Branch) the passing of a much loved personality.
Stephen Roberts (19/6/56) passed away peacefully on the 21st August 2017 surrounded by his family.
Obituary kindly supplied by classmate Robbie Simmons
The Reverend Alan Sell, Philosophy and Theology - February 2016
Jeremy Warren, Entrepreneurship - August 2012
Helen Applegarth, Combined Studies - 1st May 2010
Gillian Barton, Combined Studies - February 2011
Stephen Bradshaw, Counselling - 1 November 2009
William Bridges, Classics - May 2009
Abigail (Aby) Cairns (née Holmes), Midwifery - 14 June 2018
Rory Fraser, Oncology
Joanna Ingram, Pastoral and Theological Studies - 2015
Kathryn Phipps, Physiotherapy - 30 March 2008
Simon Rowley, Counselling - 15 June 2009
Michael Bristow, Education - 17 March 2008
James Bullock, Human Genetics - 20 March 2012
Swantje-Juliane Harder, Politics and International Relations - 2023
Victoria Johnson, Law - 5 January 2009
Alan Lyons, Institute of Work Health and Organisations - 2010
Michael Pedder, Chemistry - 2 January 2012
Christopher Puddifoot, Film Studies - 10 November 2009
Nicola Sherrington, Medicine - 13 September 2011
Edgar Tarr, History
Sean Zeelie, Clinical Psychiatry - 13 September 2010
Abdalla Elzaidabi, Architecture - 11 October 2010
Dr Jack Gibson, Epidemiology and Public Health - 2022
Michael Grundy, Finance, Accounting and Management - 8 September 2013
Adam Jephson, International Business - 11 August 2016
William Lovell, Music - 30 March 2014
Philip Saravanamuttu, Industrial Economics - 2012
Patricia Thornton-Houser, Education - 2010
Michael Cane, Architecture
Peter Douglas, Education - 30 April 2010
Pamela Hunt, Education - 31 March 2021
Allan James, Geography
Alan SC Linney
Mark McCartney, Medicine - 2010
Brenda Noreys, Education
Thomas Peltier, Electrical Engineering - 2003
W Gordon Smedsrud, Occasional Student - 20 January 2004
Helen Suzman, Honorary Degree
Derwyn Thomas, Pharmacology - 15 January 2014
Peter Tyrrel - 30 September 2011
Kathleen Walker, (née Duggan), Education - 22 May 2006
Fiona Williams (née Woolfenden), Sociology - 25 September 2009
Pamela Zasada, Education
David Amstel, Politics
Stephen Andrews, Local and Regional History - 14 April 2006
Chooi-Leng Ang, Information Technology
Joyce (Tricia) Collins - July 2022
Nichola Gorton, English - November 2011
Anthony Hall, Russian - 24 February 2011
Maximillian Halliwell, Chemistry/Material Sciences
David Hopkins, Education
Karen Knowles, Production Engineering
Sir Charles Mackerras, Honorary Degree - 14 July 2010
For a full obituary please see The Guardian
Ronald North, Education - 2020
Raymond Port, Education - 23 April 2009
Deborah Rogers (née Stainer), Agriculture and Food Sciences - 1 September 2010
Alan Salmon, Electrical Engineering - 2023
Richard Sewter, Social Administration - 26 February 2008
Mark Smith, Biochemistry - 19 December 2010
Patrick Smith, Philosophy - December 2009
Professor James "Teddy" Thomas DLitt, Education - 11 July 2023
David Walker, Theology
Janet Whitlock - 2016
Neil Wood, History - 2020
Kate Akers (nee Hagerty), Chemistry - February 2021 Kate passed away peacefully aged 49 on 1 February 2021 after a short battle with cancer.
Kate spent three happy years at Nottingham, initially in Florence Nightingale then the Broadgate Flats and then a house in Dunkirk.
She met her husband-to-be Mike at a concert in Wollaton Park and they married in 1998.
Kate filled her time with her lifelong passions of nature, walking, gardening and tinkering with things and was an active supporter of many good causes.
She leaves her husband Mike, her sister and parents.
Robert Alvey, Archaeology - 2018
Paul Condon, English - 10 May 2019
For a full obituary, please see Dr Who News
Stephen Cox, Education - September 2015
Frank Cunnane, Computer Science
Peter Edwards, Education - January 2013
Simon Mockett, Education - 17 September 2007
Leslie Sammons, Education - 30 November 2011
Alastair Senior, Mechanical Engineering - 2011
Olive Stephenson, Social Studies - 30 September 2013
Andrew Taylor, Economics - 15 December 2020
Dr Jenny Vaughan OBE, Medicine - 31 March 2024
Dr Jenny Vaughan passed away on Easter Sunday after a long battle with cancer.
Following her graduation from Nottingham, she had a massive impact in the field of medicine and was awarded an OBE in 2023 for Services to Medicine.
There is a tribute at the following link published by Doctor's Association UK (DAUK) and on several other media outlets including Twitter/X.
We met at Nottingham in 1987 and married in 1993.
She leaves her husband (now an NHS general surgeon) and two teenage boys.
Obituary kindly supplied by Jenny's husband Matt Dunckley, Biology 1990.
Leslie Weeks, Counselling Studies
Ian White, Manufacturing and Operations Management - April 2008
Francisca Wong, Education - 27 May 2012
The Reverend David Wilde, Philosophy - 2017
Dr Stephanie Allen-Patel, Pharmacy - 2023
Simon Beckett, Pharmacy/Pharmaceutical Sciences - 24 December 2008
Margaret Foster (née Thompson), Primary Health Care
Simon Johnson, Theology - 31 August 2018
Elizabeth McCartney, Education - May 2010
Dr Angela Kershaw Snape, French - 6 June 2018
For a full obituary, please see news item published by the University of Birmingham
Alan Trevor Roberts, Construction Management - 2012
Ann Roberts (née Stirling), Education - February 2018
David Sharp, Mechanical Engineering - May 2006
Sheila Travis, American Studies
Jonathan Whitehouse, Civil Engineering
Anne Worrall, Primary Healthcare - 2011
Michael Aikman
Dr Fidelis Akagbosu, Assisted Reproduction Technology - 26 July 2019
Fertility specialist Dr Fidelis Akagbosu passed away on July 26th, 2019 at the age of 64.
Fidelis was a Nigerian who was passionate about helping people with infertility to conceive.
He helped to establish the first IVF clinic (the Premier Medical Specialist Hospital) in Gwagwalada in the Federal Capital Territory of Nigeria, in 1996.
The birth of the first IVF baby in this area of Nigeria followed in 1998.
The Premier Medical Specialist Hospital went on to become the first clinic in Nigeria to introduce more advanced fertility techniques such as intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) to treat male infertility and embryo cryopreservation, leading to countless healthy babies being born.
Fidelis was born on April 24th, 1955 in Benin City, Edo State, Nigeria.
He received his medical degree from Obafemi Awolowo University (University of Ife) in 1979.
While in residency at the University of Benin Teaching Hospital, Fidelis married Dr Lilian Akagbosu (née Acholonu) in 1987.
In 1990, they relocated to the UK and Fidelis passed his MRCOG exams in 1992.
To further his knowledge of infertility, Fidelis attained a Master’s degree in Assisted Reproduction Technology from the University of Nottingham in 1994.
As an IVF expert, Fidelis then worked at the fertility clinic in the Fazakerley District General Hospital in Merseyside before moving to work with the team that pioneered IVF, at the Bourn Hall Clinic in Cambridgeshire.
It was during his time at Bourn Hall that he made plans to establish an IVF clinic in his homeland.
The setting up of IVF in Nigeria presented numerous challenges.
However, working alongside Dr Ibrahim Wada and Dr Bryan Woodward, Fidelis performed the first IVF run of patients in June 1997, with three of the nine patients becoming pregnant, and the first IVF baby, Hannutu, being born on 11th February 1998.
Fidelis went on to help fellow fertility specialists to set up IVF clinics in Nigeria, most notably the Roding Medical Centre and George’s Memorial Medical Centre in Lagos State.
He finally relocated to the USA where he worked in New York and Philadelphia.
His last position was as an Attending Physician and Sub-Chief at the Kaiser Center for Reproductive Health in Fremont, California.
Fidelis was a prominent member of the Association of Nigerian Physicians in the Americas, the American Society for Reproductive Medicine in the USA, the RCOG in the UK and the Association for Fertility and Reproductive Health (AFRH) in Nigeria.
A tribute was held for Fidelis at this year’s annual conference of the AFRH, where the president acknowledged “Fidelis selflessly provided support for the establishment of a number of IVF centres in Nigeria and was a leading member of the team that recorded our early success.
The history of IVF would not be complete without him”
Fidelis was a devoted father to his two children, and is survived by his daughter Dr Cynthia Akagbosu, his son Mr.
Emmanuel Akagbosu, and his son-in-law Mr.
Nathan Swire.
Fidelis was the eleventh child of thirteen, of which he is survived by five: Sir Casimir Akagbosu, Mr.
Anthony Akagbosu, Chief Engineer Stephen Akagbosu, Mrs.
Maria Igbinedion, and Mr.
John Akagbosu.
He is pre-deceased by Dr.
Lilian Akagbosu, his parents, and his siblings: Mr.
Joseph Akagbosu, Mr.
Thomas Akagbosu, Miss Cecelia Akagbosu, Mr.
Peter Akagbosu, Mr.
Paul Akagbosu, Mrs.
Christiana Iruobe, and Miss Josephine Akagbosu.
Obituary kindly supplied by Dr Bryan Woodward.
Neil Atkins, Chemistry - 29 December 2013
Edward Bailey, Social Policy and Administration - 1 April 2011
Sheila M Bannister, Combined Studies
Norma Brook, Healthcare Policy and Organisation - 31 December 2008
Helen Challener (née Coles), Education - 31 July 2006
Simon Dew, Civil Engineering - 2008
Professor Dame Elizabeth Fradd - 12 May 2024
Dame Liz devoted her professional life to the continuous improvement of healthcare.
During her career, having trained as a children's nurse, she held a variety of registered nurse, midwife and health visitor posts before supporting the nursing profession nationally, becoming Deputy Chief Nursing Officer for England and serving as Director of Nursing / Lead Director for reviews and inspections at the Commission for Health Improvement.
She was a Fellow of the Royal College of Nursing, the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health, the Queen’s Nursing Institute and the Institute of Health Visiting.
In 2009 she was awarded the DBE for services to nursing and healthcare.
Her most recent roles included commissioner on the Midlands Engine Health Inequalities Post Covid Commission, Vice-Chair of the UK children's charity Together for Short Lives, membership of Southwell Cathedral Council and Nomination Committee and clinical advisor to Nourish.
Previously, Dame Liz was the High Sheriff of Nottinghamshire for 2020/21, Vice President of Rainbows Children’s Hospice, and an advisor to Justice Defenders.
Dame Liz was well known to our university community, having served as a University Council member from August 2009 until December 2018 and as University Vice-President from January 2012 through to the end of her tenure in December 2018.
In addition, she was an honorary professor in the School of Health Sciences since 2000 to the present day and was awarded an honorary Doctor of Laws (LLD) by the University in 2003.
Sadly, she died on Sunday 12 May on her 75th birthday, and the day that she was due to step down as her role as Vice Lord-Lieutenant of Nottinghamshire.
Michael Henderson, History - 3 October 2015
Michael attended King Edward VIth Grammar School in Louth, Lincolnshire before studying history at Nottingham University, graduating in 1994.
For the first 2 years of the course, he was accommodated in Derby Hall when Rev.
Douglas Davies was warden, and served as Vice President of the JCR in 1993-4 under Carlos Lopez.
Here, he met his future wife, Anna Roberts, a medical undergraduate.
They married in July 1996.
Michael completed a PGCE at Nottingham Trent University and went on to have a career of 19 years in primary school education, working in Nottingham City, Nottinghamshire, Leicestershire and Lincolnshire.
During his career, he became Head Teacher of 3 schools: Edna G Olds Primary and Nursery School in Lenton Nottingham, Waltham on the Wolds CE Primary School in Leicestershire, and Grasby All Saints CE Primary School in Lincolnshire.
Michael and Anna enjoyed attending the Celebratory Dinner for the 50th Anniversary of Derby Hall in September 2013 and were delighted to meet Douglas Davies again on that occasion.
Michael also recalled how, as Head Teacher at Edna G Olds Primary school in Lenton he was completely dismayed one morning to find the road outside the school covered in litter and broken glass, following a student society ball.
Bearing in mind the risks posed to the schoolchildren, Michael made it his business to find out who the society president was, gather all the rubbish in black plastic sacks and dump it inside his hall bedroom!
His teaching and leadership skills were widely appreciated by colleagues, parents and pupils and he was a loving husband, son, brother and uncle, wonderful father and loyal friend.
He was diagnosed with advanced and aggressive bowel cancer in August 2014, just a few months after moving back to his childhood home of Louth in Lincolnshire and taking up a new head teacher post at Grasby CE school.
He leaves his wife, and son and daughter.
Obituary kindly supplied by Michael's wife, Anna.
Cedric Langton, Health Services - 1 December 2011
Shaun Mosley, Mathematics
Craig Pentlow, Chemical Processing and Materials Engineering - 19 March 2016
Liam Shephard, Mathematics
Scott Wagland, Law - 2012
Joanne Wakeling, Geography
Elizabeth Bailes, Genetics - 2002
Royston Bailey, Criminology - 5 February 2009
Luke Barrett, Philosophy/Psychology - 25 June 2014
Concepcion Beardall, Combined Studies - 14 March 2017
Alfred Brookes, Combined Studies - 2008
Keith Buckley, Combined Studies - January 2012
Clair Chilvers, Science - 28 June 2024
Emeritus Professor Clair Chilvers was a cancer epidemiologist and Professor of Epidemiology after being awarded her DSc from Nottingham in 1995.
From 1996 to 1999 she was Dean of the university's Graduate School.
In retirement, she was an active member of the Emeritus Professors’ community.
Clair was also Chair of Gloucestershire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust and before that of Nottinghamshire Healthcare NHS Trust, one of the largest providers of mental health and learning disability services in England.
She was formerly Director of the Mental Health Research and Development Portfolio at the Department of Health, and Director of the National Forensic Mental Health R&D Programme.
Clair was Chair of Mental Health Research UK from 2011 to 2021 and was a member of the Scholarship Awards Committee.
She was a Trustee of the Centre for Mental Health, the Schizophrenia Research Fund, the Barnwood Trust, the Lloyds TSB Foundation for England and Wales, and the McPin Foundation.
She was also a Deputy Lieutenant of Nottinghamshire.
Dennis Clamp, Combined Studies - Feburary 2011
Eileen Cooper, Combined Studies - 9 April 2002
James Culling, Geography - November 2012
Rosemary Fasey, Russian/Spanish
Kate Fielding, Combined Studies - 1 January 2009
Joyce Foreman, Combined Studies - 12 October 2018
Andrew Fuller, Mechanical Engineering - 23 February 2020
Susan Gregg, Combined Studies - 2003
Robert Jones, Computer Science, Artificial Intelligence and Psychology - December 2012
Richard Littlewood, Mathematics
Jonathan McCarthy, Transport Engineering
Tony Nutting, History - 22 April 2009
Derek Oliver, Highway Engineering
Kathleen Maude Shaw, Combined Studies - 17 January 2013
Peter Slaney, Combined Studies
Angie Smith, Social and Cultural Studies - 26 July 2022
Geoffrey Stansfield, Combined Studies - 21 September 2011
Dr Richard Stevens, History - 11 October 2019
University of Nottingham postgraduate alumnus Richard Stevens passed last month at the age of 59 after several periods of illness.
A graduate of the Department of History initially at BA and then Masters level, he was awarded a PhD here in 1995 for his thesis: Trades Councils in the East Midlands, 1929-1951: Politics and Trade Unionism in a ‘Traditionally Moderate Area’.
His project made a contribution to the fields of local history, oral history and labour history.
The research involved no fewer than 170 structured interviews with labour activists and communists in the Midlands and survives for the researcher in transcript form.
Richard published eleven articles and chapters between 1993 and 2000 on the labour movement and trades unions.
Chapters include, ‘Organised Labour in Nottingham’, in John V.
Beckett (ed.), A Centenary History of Nottingham (Manchester University Press, 1997) and ‘Cold War Politics: Communism and Anti-Communism in the Trades Unions, in A.
Campbell et al.
(eds.), British Trades Unions and Industrial Politics, 1940-79, Volume 1: The Post-War Compromise, 1945-64 (Ashgate, 1999).
Articles include five including ‘Containing Radicalism: The Trades Union Congress Organisation Department and Trades Councils, 1928-1953’, Labour History Review 62: 1 (1997) and ‘Trades Councils and the Organisation of the Unemployed: the East Midlands in the 1930s’, Journal of Regional and Local Studies, 14: 1 (1994).
As well as teaching on several courses at the University of Nottingham around 1994 to 1996, he went on to teach courses of his own at the University of Sheffield, Sheffield Hallam University, North Derbyshire Tertiary College, University of Birmingham, Manchester Metropolitan University and Leeds University School of Continuing Education.
He taught also for the Open University, of which he was a keen advocate, and was research fellow for the Communist Party Oral History Project at the University of Manchester.
He also spoke on many occasions to the Nottingham Branch of the Historical Association.
Richard was a social and labour activist, member of the Anarchist Federation and of the Industrial Workers of the World union, music lover, Norwich City F.C.
supporter, valued member of the team at Oxfam, West Bridgford.
He is survived by family including daughter Saffron, and is missed by his very many friends in the City of Nottingham.
Obituary kindly supplied by Dr Claire Taylor, History
Alan Thompson, History
Dr Christine Tinkler (née Carver), Business Administration (Education) - June 2016
Thomas Philip Neil Wilson, Arts - January 2013
Choon Woong, Physics - 1998
Dr Charles Baker, Chemistry
Helena Bandoo (née Wragg), Law - 13 March 2018
Justin Beard, Agricultural and Food Sciences - 8 May 2010
Barri Bishop, Russian - June 2015
Patricia Butler, Education - 2008
Zahirul Chowdhury, Law - August 2013
Professor Esmond Nigel Corlett, Combined Studies - 17 November 2020
Wendy Cronin, Education - October 2007
Robert Cryer, International Law - 2021
Roger Dalton, Geography – 14 March 2022
Luciana Grant, Art History - 2012
Sandra Hallam, Combined Studies - 25 June 2009
Alan Johnston, Mineral Resources Engineering - 21 September 2012
Victoria Jones, PGCE - 1996
Norman Kaye, Philosophy - 23 June 2008
John Kowalkowski, Education - 26 February 2024
Christopher O'Brien, Urban Planning and Management - 2012
Rowan Preston, Zoology - 8 June 2008
Pat McLean, Combined Studies
Salvatore Milazzo, French - April 2012
Jennifer Sellwood, Combined Studies
Colin Smith, Combined Studies
Ginger Tomlin, Law - 9 October 2011
Wendy Jane Trehy, Law - 23 April 2018
Edward Wakefield, Combined Studies - 19 December 2009
Eric Wilmhurst, Combined Studies - 2000
Eric Woolsey, Combined Studies
Valerie Birch, Combined Studies - 1997
David Freeman, Combined Studies - June 2011
Christine Frost (née Middlehurst), Education - 12 March 2009
John Gannon, Combined Studies - 20 January 2009
Penny Heugh, Combined Studies
Noneen Jacques, Combined Studies - 2013
Sheila Mack, Combined Studies - 2008
Gillian Martin (née Le Mottée), Public Health - 20 July 2012
Sarah Northeast, Nursing - September 2022
Roy Paulson, Local and Regional History
Alec Raynard, Counselling Studies - 11 March 2013
Christopher Renyard, Electrical & Electronic Engineering with German - October 2007
Jennifer Seago, Economics and Econometrics - 9 February 2004
Christine Vickers, Education - 18 June 2018
Christine enjoyed her time at Nottingham immensely.
In 1998 she was appointed Head teacher at a junior school in Rugby, Warwickshire and went on to become a qualified Schools Inspector.
Christine retired from teaching in 2003.
Christine was a highly respected and well-liked member of the local community.
Obituary kindly supplied by husband John.
Katherine Beckett, Human Genetics - 10 June 2013
Stuart Bell, Philosophy and Theology - 6 March 2020
Ennis Bosworth, Public Health - December 2009
John Cameron, Environmental Life Science - September 2004
Philip Matthew Charlesworth, Psychology
Joan Gould, Combined Studies - 8 December 2006
Jane Halliday, Biochemistry and Biomedical Physics
Jeremy Heath, Computer Science - 6 March 2021
Margharita Holwell, Combined Studies
Shauna McGibbon, Sports Medicine - October 2008
Dr Giorgio Pellicciari, Combined Studies - 2017
Paul Spackman, Physics - 1998
Jane Ubhi
Kathryn Culling, Agriculture and Food Sciences - 21 March 2011
Edric Gideon, Manufacturing Systems - 2007
Ian Hoggarth, Computer Science - 4 October 2012
Marguerite Howard, Local and Regional History
Paul McKinley, Information Technology - 14 September 2006
Alison Raju, Hispanic Studies - 2 November 2020
Arthur (Terry) Ward, Philosophy - 22 January 2016
Daniel Williams, Education - 2 November 2011
Paul Chidgey, Economic and Social History
Zena Jane Cumberpatch, Industrial Economics
John Divall, Education - 2012
John Eynon, Architecture - June 2021
Andrew Finn, Civil Engineering - 11 May 2024
Heather Henry, Social Administration
Honora Hunter, Law - 1 June 1993
Harry Husband, Education - March 2010
Iris Husband, Education - 20 September 2013
Phillip Jackson, Geography - April 2016
John Jones, Electrical Engineering - 26 June 2009
Catherine Moores, English Studies - 11 March 2010
David Morris, History - 19 April 2010
David Ronald Roddan, English Studies - June 2023
Michael Tyler, Education - February 2021
Patricia Wells (née Clarke), Biology - 2008
Jean (Shirley) Wilson, Education
Jacob Chi-Kwok Wong, Civil Engineering - 28 November 2010
Philip Zornoza, Production Engineering
Simon Barlow, Medicine
James Kirk Blackburn, Geology
Dr Gary Bryan, Medicine - 14 July 2016
Valerie Buckett (née Workman), Geography
Peter Cook, Agriculture/Horticulture - 5 March 2010
Phillipa Cowdrey, Industrial Economics - September 2009
Lois Dart (née Williams), Sociology - April 2023
Patrick Davies, Mathematics
Maurice Delaney, Politics - 19 January 2009
Freda Dryhurst, Education
Euan Haig, Geography - 7 December 2010
Nigel Jordan, Medicine - 12 June 2011
Sapphire Naylor (née Ashcroft), Social Work - 2009
John Nottingham, Education
Brian Frank Orzel, Physics
June Platt, Education - May 2020
Dr Stefan Popper, Medicine - 16 March 2016
Derek Price, Botany
Peter Rawlins, Electrical Engineering - March 2017
Elsie Reddish, Education
John Robinson, Medieval & Modern History - 13 September 2013
Ann Shaw (née Holmes), Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences - September 2012
Anita Stockwell, Pharmacy - April 2006
Nicholas Teesdale, Russian Studies - 5 April 2021
Sivagurunathan Thayaparasivan, Chemical Engineering - 21 September 2009
Judith Todd (née Johnson), Mathematics - 22 December 2020
Vaughan Williams, Education - 21 June 2009
Dr Stephen Wichbold, Medicine - 6 April 2020
Sharon Bubbers (née White), History
Lyndon Casey, Electrical and Electronic Engineering - 19 September 2019
Frederick Clarke, Theology - 22 November 2012
Graham Clayworth, Production Engineering and Production Management - 2022
Dr Robert Dow, Mining Engineering - August 2012
Christopher Fenton, Medicine - 2012
Martin Hagyard, Mathematics - December 2023
Bernard Haynes, Education - 1 March 2005
Nora Haynes, Education - 2017
Graham Hollows, Psychology - November 2009
John Martin, Economics/Agricultural Economics - 12 September 2005
Alan Maydon, Education - October 2010
Godfrey (William) McGowan, Education - 25 November 2007
Raymond Edgar Milner, Education - January 2013
Thomas (Tom) Smith, Slavonic Studies - 2018
Tina Smithson, Law - 10 March 2007
Richard Stagg, Chemistry - 21 July 2017
Christopher Attwood, Physics and Applied Physics with Electronics - 2019
Anne Barnsdall, Education - 10 March 2008
Dr Raymond Burnish, Theology - August 2017
Neil Gemmell, Agriculture/Horticulture - 20 January 2022
Dr Antoni Labadz, Physics - 9 July 2020
Toni was born in 1962 in West Yorkshire, the only child of two Polish refugees who came to England after the 2nd World War.
He was the first in his family to go to university and he thrived on the experience of being a student at Nottingham.
He graduated with a BSc (Hons) Physics in 1983 and continued studying at the University, going on to gain a PhD in theoretical physics in 1987.
We met on our very first day as undergraduates, when we both arrived in Willoughby Hall.
As a postgrad, Toni also lived for one year in Cripps Hall.
He made many strong and lasting friendships whilst at Nottingham and was involved in a variety of student societies, including parachute jumping, ballroom dancing and CathSoc.
We both had many happy memories of time on campus.
After leaving Nottingham, Toni did a 2 year postdoctoral research project at UMIST and then he worked at Manchester University computing centre for many years, before taking up employment as a software developer.
Toni became ill in late 2019 and he passed away more quickly than we had hoped or expected.
His enthusiasm for life is very much missed by his family and friends.
Obituary kindly provided by wife Jillian Labadz.
David Limb, Production Engineering - 13 July 2016
It is with great sadness that I write to inform you that my husband, David Limb, died on 13 July at the age of 56.
David was an engineering graduate and left Nottingham after graduating in 1983.
Although we were both at Nottingham, our paths didn't cross for a further 15 years when we met travelling to and from Philadelphia on business, and married in 1996.
David had suffered from Crohn's disease since his time at Nottingham and very recently developed end stage kidney failure, and had been on dialysis for the last 14 months of his life.
Information kindly supplied by David's wife, Cathy Limb (née Woodbine).
Dr Keith Lumsdon, Mining Engineering - 11 June 2017
Ann Ogden (née Kellett), Education - 27 July 2008
John Ratcliffe, Civil Engineering - March 2016
Christine Reid, Psychology - 16 May 1988
Mary Strong, Education
Ernest Summers, Modern Electronics - October 2010
Jeff Vyse, Chemical Engineering - 2023
Reverend John Watts, Education - 6 March 2019
Julie Wheeler, Education - 12 May 2011
Penelope Yensen, Education - 28 September 2005
Gilbert R N Bigabwa, Environmental Planning for Developing Countries - 9 June 1992
Sari Conway (née Wright), Education - July 2006
Malcolm Gander, Education - 5 September 2011
Robert Heard, Genetics and Biochemistry - 7 February 2012
Mollie Kidd, Education - 23 August 2023
Ann Leeding (née Fielding), Physics and Applied Physics with Electronics
Edward Mann, English - January 2011
Jeffrey Moore, Education - 21 November 2011
John Morley, Education
Margaret Patrick, Social Work - 4 March 2006
Elizabeth Radforth, Politics - 1 July 2008
Simon Rushworth, Chemistry - April 2022
Simon passed away after a brave battle against a rare cancer in April 2022.
He was a great beloved family man and he is survived by his wife Elisabeth (Lis) and their two daughters, Christine and Jessica.
He graduated in 1984, working first for Liverpool University where he met his wife Lis, then for St Andrews University and in 1986 he joined Lis working for Epichem Ltd on The Wirral.
He became an internationally recognised and esteemed expert in the semiconductor industry, travelling extensively, generously sharing his advice and help.
In 2010 he moved to Cork University, then to KTN, and then worked for EpiValence.
His professional achievements were recognised by the rare high award of a DSc by The University of Nottingham in 2013.
His friends remember him always being extremely kind, irrepressibly great fun, having such adventures and being a tireless fundraiser for charity.
He was a leading figure in The Heswall Round Table, with memorable events including pushing a wheelchair coast-to-coast for charity and always helping Santa.
He was the best friend you could have.
Obituary kindly supplied by Lesley Smith, on behalf of Simon's widow Elizabeth and his two daughters Christine and Jessica.
Michael Ward, Education - 21 December 2008
Dawn Chance, Medicine - 28 March 2002
Geoffrey Dumbill, Zoology/Biochemistry - 3 May 2014
Tracy Evans (née Welton), Social Administration - March 2013
John Falkingham, Education - February 2019
Elizabeth Filmer, French and German - December 2007
Wendy Gilley, Mathematics - 14 May 2009
Eric Howarth, Linguistics/English Language - November 2010
Duncan Lennard, Mechanical Engineering - 1 April 2015
Brian Lord, Mining Engineering - June 2013
Richard Madeley, Medicine - 13 February 2012
Unny Menon, Production Engineering - 3 November 2011
Susan Nicholls, Zoology - 30 May 2011
David Parry, Education - 18 January 2004
Bridget Peet, Russian/Serbo-Croat - 22 September 2023
Colin Pendleton, Archaeology - 1 June 2014
Ian Simmons, Physics
Caryl Louise Thompson, History - 1 January 2025
Born in Newport, Wales in 1962, Caryl was the first in her family to go to university.
Little did she realise the life changing impact of graduating from the University of Nottingham in 1985 with a degree in History.
Following her graduation, Caryl made pork pies in in Beeston, picked tomatoes on a moshav by the Dead Sea, backpacked around Egypt and then went to Graduate School at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst.
She then returned to the UK, to London and then to Nottingham, where she landed the perfect job in the university’s International Office, looking after American students on their Junior Year Abroad.
She always remembered having the best boss anyone could hope for, her mentor and heroine, the deeply missed Dr Christine Humfrey.
This initial experience of international education catalysed a hugely influential career at the University of Nottingham working in international student recruitment, student admissions and marketing, ultimately serving as Director of Recruitment and Admissions.
This was a career that saw her work across all areas of the university; and one that provided the opportunity to travel widely, working with schools and colleges worldwide inspiring students and colleagues alike.
It was at Nottingham that Caryl met Chris; it was Nottingham that propelled them to work in Malaysia where Caryl played a pivotal role in establishing administrative structures for the first overseas campus of a British Univerity anywhere in the world.
And, some 13 years ago, it was at Nottingham that Caryl’s career went full circle as she gave up work to return to student life – undertaking first a Masters degree in International Relations and then completing a PhD in 2016 – research that addressed the processes by which migration was increasingly being constructed as a security issue.
That PhD was completed during a second stint in Malaysia where Caryl also managed to adopt three dogs, cared for her mother and transformed the house she shared with Chris into a vibrant social hub welcoming a constant stream of visitors from Nottingham and beyond.
Caryl’s return from Malaysia coincided with the completion of her PhD and a further change in direction.
Having moved with Chris to a small village in South Warwickshire, Caryl eagerly involved herself in her community, as a charity trustee, contributing to event organisation and supporting fundraising work.
She mobilised teams of volunteers to collect graveyard information for a Heritage Lottery project and most recently, supported and managed the relocation of a family from Ukraine who were settling into the village.
In the summer of 2024, Caryl was diagnosed with stage 4 pancreatic cancer.
It was a diagnosis that she took in her stride.
Throughout her many hospital encounters, however much pain and discomfort she experienced, she was unfailingly kind and polite and always interested in those who cared for her.
On January 1st 2025, she passed away at home with her wife, Chris, her dogs and her very closest friends around her.
Graham Townsend, Social Administration - 1998
Graham Turner, Chemistry - 16 April 2012
Benjamin Whiteley, Geology - 1 June 2005
Dr Stephen Wallwork, Local and Regional History - 22 February 2019
Please see the "Staff And Friends" section below for written obituary
Judith Carini (née Gourley), Sociology - 20 May 2011
Carol Ghelani, Education
Geoffrey Hadfield, Classical Civilisations - 20 June 2011
David Hammond, Agriculture/Horticulture - 1 September 2022
Michael James Harvey , Agriculture/Horticulture - 6 August 2022
Raymond Knaust, Information Technology - 8 September 2021
Raymond Knaust PhD.
MRSC.
was a lecturer in Chemistry at the Derby College of Technology, now the University of Derby.
Having taken early retirement in 1984, he studied for an MSc in Information Technology at Nottingham and has since been a keen supporter of the University.
He died on 8th September 2021, having recently celebrated his 90th birthday with family and friends.
Obituary kindly supplied by Raymond's niece Kathleen Horrix.
Michael Lavelle, Education
Dr Leonard Moaven, Medicine - July 2023
Len built a great life and a flourishing clinical laboratory business in Australia.
He was energetic, mischievous and extremely funny.
He is much missed by family and friends in Australia and the UK.
Obituary kindly supplied by Len's good friend, Andy Ness.
Robert Read, Mechanical Engineering - September 2012
Kenneth Rigby, Modern Electronics - 16 February 2013
Julie Tyler, Education - 21 April 2007
James Wilkie, Spanish/Hispanic Studies - 22 February 2009
Jane Campbell (née Hunter), English - March 2007
Bernadette Chantrey (née Eyre), Social Work
Peter Coward, Education - 2012
Thersea Duncan, Education - 12 January 2023
Karen Everett (née Prince), Geography - 3 August 2016
Wesley Ewing, Agriculture/Horticulture - April 2020
Stephanie Exell (née Hawkins), Theology
William Forrest, Mining Engineering - 13 December 2012
Andrew Fox, Education - 2001
John Franks, Education - October 2018
Jonathan Hesp, Zoology - 12 August 2013
Dr Vivian M Leveaux, Local and Regional History - 3 January 2016
Donald McCubbing, Zoology - 11 September 2015
Eric Moxham, Education - 3 September 2018
Eric Page, Child Psychology - 1 March 2013
Gary Philpott, Physics and Astronomy - 2011
Julian Pringle, Manufacturing Systems - 24 February 2006
David Southern, Law - 15 April 2025
Andrew Trott, Education - August 2013
Susan Watson, Medicine - 29 November 2011
Christopher Bromley, Education - September 2020
Jacqueline Evans, Education - April 2011
Philip Gold, Mechanical Engineering - April 2019
Lesley Jackson, Fine Art/Art History - 2005
Dr Hamid Khendek, Information Technology
Jayne Lee, Chemistry - 6 December 2008
Dr Iain McVicar, Medical and Surgical Sciences - June 2022
Andrew Moody, Metallurgy and Material Science
Christopher Moor, Law and Politics - 7 November 2018
Graeme Scott, Mechanical Engineering - April 2013
Agnes Shie (née Lee), Chemical Engineering - 2010
Gwilym Thomas, Education - 1988
Michael Varnam, Community Medicine/Epidem - 2006
Kathleen Cove, Social Administration - 3 August 2015
Jill Cutting, Education - 2007
Russell Dallen, Law - 17 September 2021
Dr John Evans, Adult Education - 2 July 2023
Robert Frazier, History - 5 June 2011
Peter Furlong, Chemistry - 11 January 2023
Peter was born in April 1961 to an Irish Catholic family, originally from Wexford, living in Birmingham.
Pete attended The Rosary RC Infant and Primary School in Saltley where, at the age of 6 or 7, he first came into contact with Maureen, who was in the year above, the person who was eventually to become his wife.
Pete passed his 11+ and attended the highly-regarded St Philip’s Grammar School for Boys in Edgbaston.
After his A’levels he went on to start a Pharmacy degree at Liverpool Polytechnic.
However, he contracted a virus which mystified the medics, and became so unwell during his first year he had to leave his studies and return to his family home in Birmingham.
When he had sufficiently recovered and was able to resume his degree, he was not permitted to restart the pharmacy course so, in 1981 he switched to Applied Chemistry.
At the end of his degree in 1985 he was awarded a 2:1 pass and he accepted a place at Nottingham University to study for a PhD in Surface and Colloid Chemistry.
In late 1988, the final year of his PhD, he caught Rubella from another student, which caused him serious side-effects.
He was admitted to hospital with significant loss of feeling in his legs, unable to stand or walk.
Pete and Maureen started dating in January 1988 and were married at The Rosary Church in April 1989.
They have two beautiful children; a son, George, born in 1994, and a daughter, Katharine, born in 1996.
Pete was very proud that both wished to pursue a career in science like their dad; that George chose Nottingham University to study for his degree (where Pete did his PhD), and that Katharine chose Birmingham University, which is near his old Grammar school in his home city.
He was also extremely proud to learn that Katharine had achieved her PhD, at Edinburgh University, just a few months before he passed away.
Following the completion of his PhD following a short Teacher Taster Course, he enrolled on a PGCE course, again at Nottingham, to train as a secondary school science teacher.
Upon qualification he gained a position as a Science/Chemistry Teacher at a school in Lincoln in 1991.
His career as a teacher was eventually impacted by his disability but with the assistance of his teaching union and Occupational Health, funding was obtained for the school from the Department of Employment Access to Work for his laboratory to be adapted for a disabled person and for a Teacher’s Assistant to be employed to assist him where necessary.
Pete had to retire from teaching in 2008.
This was the end of his working career.
As regards hobbies, Pete was very competitive and always had a very keen interest in sports, competing for his school, Liverpool Polytechnic and Nottingham University, in football, rugby, cricket and athletics.
He was a lifelong fan of West Bromwich Albion football club.
His ability to participate in team games declined with onset of his mobility difficulties but he kept up his cycling and running for as long as he was able, and keep-fit activities in a home gym.
He continued to avidly watch all sorts of sports and athletics on TV.
He enjoyed numerous other leisure activities such as wine and beer making, car maintenance, DIY, gardening, reading and listening to music.
Passionate about education, he was keen for his children to achieve their full potential and, whilst not terribly popular with George and Katharine at the time, provided extra tuition to them after completion of their homework, mainly in maths and science, and also English, which no doubt contributed to their overall academic successes.
As a family we enjoyed board games and card games, and Pete especially enjoyed playing chess with our son George - but only if he was winning!
Pete had a very good sense of humour and was friendly, chatty and well-liked, even by the students other teachers found ‘difficult’ at the school he taught at.
He stayed in his lab at break and lunchtimes, and always had a stream of students just popping in for a chat with him.
If out and about shopping in town, say, he invariably would be accosted by numerous good-humoured past and present students coming over for a friendly chat.
Pete loved animals and wildlife.
He had dogs and cats as pets at home as a child, and our family have always had at least one cat.
He loved wildlife and liked to have garden plants that attracted insects, bees and butterflies especially.
He enjoyed sitting at the window bird watching as the different varieties came down to feed and also tried his best to rescue any injured birds the cats brought in - one spring he was out each day digging up worms from the garden to feed a baby blackbird we were looking after.
Peter suffered from a severe, relentless and progressive form of MS, in the latter years it also very sadly affected his thinking and reasoning abilities.
His speech deteriorated significantly, especially when tired, making it very difficult for others to understand him, which added to his distress and frustration.
When his wife could no longer manage to care for him alone at home, he was reluctantly moved into a care home, and for approx.
the last 2 years he resided at a home which specialized in neurological and complex care.
He was taken ill in December with an infection and eventually succumbed to pneumonia whilst in hospital on 11th January 2023.
Obituary kindly supplied by Peter's wife, Maureen.
Lesley Godber (nee Bennett), Education – 31 December 2020
Andrew Harris, Mathematics
Keith Hutcheon, Mechanical Engineering - 16 February 2018
My father, Keith Finer Hutcheon, died on 16 February 2018 at the age of 89 following his admission to hospital with pneumonia.
He was a member of staff in the Mechanical Engineering Department for some time during the period 1980 to 1989.
During his time in the department he assisted in lectures and carried out research which was supervised by Professor M J Owen and Dr.
V Middleton.
He also received a Master of Philosophy on 16 September 1989.
Obituary kindly supplied by Keith's son, Paul.
Pamela Hinett, Education
Colin Johnson, Agricultural Sciences - October 2009
Richard (Rik) Lewis, Mechanical Engineering - 28 February 2021
Alison Nix, Education - 4 December 2011
Professor Kevin Shingfield, Animal Science - September 2016
Respected scientist, academic and enthusiastic member of Sutton Bonington’s Old Kingstonian association, Professor Kevin Shingfield has died aged 48.
Professor Kevin Shingfield ( Animal Science 1989 ) was Professor of Nutritional Physiology at Aberystwyth University.
He was a passionate member of the British Society of Animal Science, being both a council member and a section editor of its journal: Animal .
He received his PhD at the University of Glasgow in 1996 and thereafter began a distinguished career in scientific research at the Agrifood Research Centre of Finland.
His primary area of research was milk composition, in particular, fatty acids.
Over time he became one of the world's most distinguished researchers on ruminant fat metabolism.
After working as a research fellow at the University of Reading from 2001-2003, he returned to Finland.
In 2009 he was appointed Research Professor where his research expanded to consider greenhouse gas emissions and the energy metabolism of dairy cows.
He returned to the UK in 2013 as Professor of Nutritional Physiology at Aberystwyth University, where he continued his international research alongside undergraduate and postgraduate teaching.
His scientific achievements were significant, especially in light of his age.
In 2011 he was recognised by Thomson Reuters for the highest per cent increase in citations in the field of agricultural sciences.
Aside from his scientific legacy, he will be remembered for his sense of humour, selflessness and passion for science and learning.
He is already deeply missed by his family, friends and former colleagues.
The British Society of Animal Science has created a memorial award for postgraduate excellence in Kevin’s memory.
To donate please go to: http://bsas.org.uk/ Obituary kindly supplied by Kevin's brother, Steve.
Brian Towers, Education - 23 January 2009
Paul Williamson, Education
Francis Almond, Chemical Engineering - 2019
Kathryn (Kate) Ames (née Greaves), Psychology - 26 April 2018
Carline Antram (née Sargent), Physics - 18 March 2019
Roger Appleton, Chemistry
Derek Bagnall, Mathematics - 25 February 2016
Robin (Chris) Butler, Production Engineering - July 2009
Denis Cooper, Law
Julian Davies, Construction Management - 27 December 2013
Jean Ellis, Geography - July 2012
David Grove, Industrial Economics - 12 November 2011
Obituary at The Telegraph
Max Hardman, Urban and Regional Planning - 20 April 2023
Mary Hare, Education - 17 February 2025
Michael Anthony Harrison, Fine Art/Art History - 25 April 2013
Stewart Jones, Physics - 2007
Dr Douglas Keir, Chemistry - 4 November 2023
Elizabeth Lawrence (née Kemp), German
Roger Marks, Politics - 23 February 2011
David Mercer, Law - 2020
Please see BBC Sport for Obituary
Elizabeth O'Brien (née Blainey), Sociology - 17 January 2012
Rebecca Park, Zoology - 26 May 2007
Phillip Russell, Politics and International Relations - 2002
Jane Rutherford (née Oldfield), Economics - 31 October 2012
David Raymond Short, Civil Engineering - 21 October 2014
Andrew Sproxton, Philosophy - 28 September 2024
Peter Staples, Theology - 10 December 2012
Clare Stride, Fine Art/Art History - 19 April 2006
Andrew Roderick Taylor, Zoology - 2012
Judith Thomas (née Bowden), Psychology - September 2024
Jennifer Ann Wilkinson (née Marker) - 22 December 2022
Jennifer was brought up near Godalming in Surrey, attending Godalming Grammar School.
After studying at Nottingham under Professor Hanson and graduating in Theology, Jennifer decided to train as a librarian in the public library service.
She undertook initial training with Surrey County Council, before attending a postgraduate library course at Birmingham Polytechnic 1971-2.
She subsequently worked for Barnsley, Essex County Council, and Anglo-European School at Ingatestone.
Jenny very much enjoyed working with people.
She liked the friendliness of Yorkshire people.
However, we had to move to Essex in 1982 for my work, settling in Black Notley, near Braintree.
Jenny had a passionate interest in the Celtic Saints, Aidan and Cuthbert, developed through her theology studies.
We have, over the years , visited Northumberland many times for holidays.
Jenny always felt completely relaxed there - the Celtic land and land of the Prince Bishops.
And we always enjoyed visits to Lindisfarne, the island of Aidan.
We celebrated our 25th, 40th and golden wedding anniversaries in Essex.
Jenny was a good wife, mother to 2 daughters, and, lately, grandmother to 5 grandchildren.
She leaves a husband, Geoffrey, a chemical engineer and former teacher, and 2 daughters - Esther, a university librarian, and Rachel, a graduate and trained veterinary nurse.
John Wilkinson, Electrical Engineering - 2 October 2008
Dr Harry Worthington, Pharmacy/Pharmaceutical Sciences
Kathryn Ash, Social Administration - 9 February 2023
Geoffrey Bagley, Zoology - 18 August 2018
Colin Budd, Botany - July 2018
Iris Bell, Education - 24 January 2011
Peggy Blunden (nee Evans), Maths/Psychology - December 2010
Paul Bradshaw, Mathematics - January 2017
Sheila Bradshaw (née Broodbank), Mathematics/Philosophy - 3 March 2019
Jack Cook, Economics - August 2018
Susan Cooper (née Byars), Social Administration - 6 June 2017
Richard Crossley, Civil Engineering
Ronald Gardner, English - 14 July 2015
Helen Grafham (née Cameron), Mathematics
Richard Grafham, Mathematics - 18 May 2005
John Higgs, Mechanical Engineering - 2024
Gillian Makin Jackson (née Bell), Geography - 1 March 2025
David Kelly, Industrial Economics - 27 July 2019 David Knowles-Leak, Mechanical Engineering - 2020
Michael Leeson, Chemistry - January 2018
Hugh Little, Politics - 2013
Peter Long, Mathematics
Obituary available via The Guardian .
Peter May, Chemical Engineering - November 2013
Marjorie Mitchell (née Crompton), Pharmacy/Pharmaceutical Sciences - 17 August 2024
Marjorie Mitchell (nee Crompton) B.Pharm 1971 passed away peacefully at home on 17th August 2024.
Marjorie lived in Cavendish Hall for all 3 years of her time at Nottingham.
Was married to Andrew (BSc Chemistry 1971) for 52 years.
Leaves husband, 3 kids and 8 grandkids.
Obituary kindly supplied by Marjorie's husband Andrew Mitchell.
Dorothy Moody (née Harvey), Pharmacy – September 2022
Dr Ian Shearer, Animal Physiology - 1 June 2021
Obituary available via Stuff.co.nz , kindly supplied by Ian's wife, Cheryl.
Linda Spiteri (née Newcomb), Botany/Zoology
George Tootell, Civil Engineering - 2017
Jennifer Mary Underhill (née Howells), French - 4 August 2024
Jenny grew up in Oxford where her Dad was starting his ministry in the church but moved to Maidenhead where John first met her.
John was already at University and she had just left school before going to Nottingham University herself.
Jenny and John’s early friendship grew into a true love and they were fortunate to celebrate their Golden wedding in July 2022 before Jenny’s cancer became too severe.
Jenny and John both first worked in London, Jenny using her linguistic skills as a bilingual PA.
Then they moved to Maidenhead, and Jenny worked as a magazine editor with a large local US publisher.
Jenny used her considerable brainpower all her life to enjoy community and cultural activities, the arts, heritage, music and singing and above all contributing to the improvement and design of our homes.
She had an unerring eye for colour, for paint and materials and the overall effect.
But the most striking feature of Jenny’s life is how well she made lifelong friends: all through her life, Jenny built long lasting, positive and loving relationships with their wider families and friends from every encounter.
They both enjoyed the reunions to which these friendships led.
They regularly met with several groups including one of her Nottingham alumni.
John and many others will also remember Jenny for her selfless giving – of her time, of her love, of her support and for her loyalty and devotion to her family and friends alike.
And she was devoted to our own children and their families – helping with childcare and support as they brought up their own children, with periods of illness and treatment as well as regular seaside holidays.
Jenny was deeply loving, and deeply loved.
She leaves a lifetime of giving, and over 50 years of a true love with John which never wavered to the end.
Obituary kindly supplied by Jennifer's husband, John Underhill.
Stephen Wall, Politics - 3 May 2015
Ross Ward, Physics - 4 April 2024
Gillian Wright (née Bishop), Education - 3 October 2024
Neil Adam, Applied Biochemstry with Nutrition - January 2012
Tim Bond, Mechanical Engineering - 16 April 2011
Prof Colin Bayliss, Electrical & Electronic Engineering - 6 September 2014
Andrew Brinkman, Electrical Engineering - 7 July 2011
Roger Burnley, Mechanical Engineering - 15 July 2009
John Carrington, French - December 2009
Stephen Castell, Mathematics - 1 April 2025
Susan Challener, Pharmacy
Elizabeth Childs (née Amos), Theology - 18 June 2024
Christopher Cooper, English/American Studies - 2010
Christopher Paul Coote, Law - March 1988
Simeon Fayomi, Overseas Planning - 26 October 2017
John Brian Harrison-Jennings, Physchology/Education - 22 January 2023
Kenneth Herbert, Architecture - 16 April 2010
Kathleen Hermolle, Music/English
Dr (Martin) Geoff Holmes, Plant Biology - 25 December 2014
Sir Anthony (Tony) Lloyd MP, Mathematics - 17 January 2024
Obituary published by Sky News is available here .
John Lowten, Industrial Economics - 25 October 2020
John's heart finally gave up on 25th October 2020.
After graduating in 1972 in Industrial Economics at Nottingham, John joined Coopers and Lybrand in London and became a Chartered accountant and later an FCA.
He subsequently worked in a range of industry sectors as Financial Controller or Director.
John retained his love of sport, cars, music and sunshine throughout his life.
Many of his good friends were also at Nottingham with him.
He will be greatly missed by his wife, two children and four grandchildren.
Obituary kindly supplied by John's wife Mary Lowten.
Duraid Mahrus, Mechanical Engineering - January 2010
Hilary McArdle, Food Science - September 2007
Rev.
David J Mellor, Theology - 20 September 2017
James Olford, Economics/Agricultural Economics - 2 April 2017
James Pattison, Electrical Engineering
Kathryn Pemberton, Biochemistry
Rev Dr Gerald Rimmington, Education - 10 October 2019
Gerald passed away peacefully in Leicester on 10th October 2019.
His life long passion was education.
Gerald graduated from the Universities of Leicester (M.A), London (B.Sc(Econ), Ph.D) and Nottingham (M.Ed, Ph.D).
He taught at various schools across Leicestershire in 1950’s.
District of Education Officers Sierra Leone 1959-61, District Education Officer Nyasaland(Malawi) 1961-63.
Assistant professor Acadia University, Wolfville, Canada 1963-67; Professor of Education and Dean, Brandon University, Manitoba, Canada 1967-73; Professor of Education and Deputy Head, Mount Allison University, Canada 1973-81.
Rector of Paston 1981-86, Vicar of Cosby 1986-90, Rector of Barwell 1990-95.
Member of Rotary, Honorary Visiting Fellow, Centre for the History of Religion and Political Pluralism University of Leicester 2000-2019.
Throughout his life he contributed an impressive body of academic work.
Obituary kindly supplied by Jacqueline Rimmington.
Please also see notice published by The Chronicle Herald .
James Rushforth, Zoology - 11 April 2014
Geoffrey Scaplehorn, French
Linda Shine (née Reynolds), English - March 2011
Janet Snape (née Wood), Geography - November 2010
John Stephenson, Physics - 31 March 2013
Trevor Tansley, Electrical and Electronic Engineering - 26 June 2011
Douglas Turner, Physics
Joan van Hamel, Education
Christopher Ward, Chemistry
Philip watts, Mechanical Engineering
Paul Abell, Mechanical Engineering - 28 October 2021
Nigel Bunting, Agriculture/Food Science - March 2009
The Reverend Canon Lloyd Caddick, Theology - 23 March 2019
Peter Carrington, French - December 2009
Elizabeth Childs (née Amos), School of Education/Theology - 18 June 2024
David Chitty, Botany
Anthony Coe, Sociology - 8 November 2023
Terry Cook, Metallurgy
Nicholas Daykin, Law
Anthony Donaldson, Mathematics - 2022
Jonathan Everitt, Chemistry
Joseph Fawcett, Education - March 2007
Kevan Fogg, Mathematics - December 2006
Keith Fuell, Agriculture/Horticulture - 2020
Paul Gilman, English Studies - 17 December 2009
Sir George Godber, Honorary Degree - February 2009
John Hall, Mathematics - November 2006
Craig Hanson, Philosophy - 15 July 2011
David Hooton, Education - 20 June 2012
Stephen Hudson, Pharmacy - 28 November 2010
The Rt Reverend Richard Inwood, Theology - 14 April 2019
David Leedham, Electrical Engineering -  September 2022
Penelope Matthews, English
Gerard McConville, Education - 10 April 2008
Keith McLagen, Education
Graham Page, Physics - February 2006
Michael Read, Chemical Engineering - November 2009
Angela Rodda (née Hopkinson), History - 2014
Angela obtained an MPhil under Professor Cameron in the Department of English studying Early Mercia settlement.
This followed a BA (Hons) in History from University of Reading in 1966.
Angela became the first ever woman moderator for A-level history at the Oxford Local Examinations Syndicate.
She was an outstanding teacher well able to gain respect and affection from both her colleagues as well as fellow moderators.
Upon retirement from teaching Angela completed an MA at Reading, this time on the causes of pre Black Death depopulation.
She leaves behind a loving husband and three children.
Obituary kindly provided by husband Jim Rodda.
Richard Sadler, Mechanical Engineering - 30 December 2021
David Samways, Pharmacy
Susan Stone (née Easterby), Social Administration
Susan Todd (née Maude), Geography - 2009
Cathy Urwin, Child Psychology - 2 June 2012
David Walker, Medicine
Keith Ayling, Psychology - 30 March 2010
David Beardsley, Education - January 2015
Thomas Botts, Physics - 15 April 2022
Michael Bushell, Mining Engineering
Joan Doreen Dobson (née Atkinson), Education - 26 February 2013
Stephen Murray Downton, Physics - 19 January 2014
Robert Dossetter, Education - 10 July 2011
Brent Gathercole, Electrical Engineering - 9 August 2020
Katherine Gaydon, Chemistry - 3 March 2005
John Hollinshead, Psychology - 2017
Margaret Hopkin (née Hallam), Education - 22 May 2011
Wendy Lawrence (née Hooper), Physics - 2 July 2019
Nicholas Mabelle, Civil Engineering - 31 August 2010
Heather Malloch (née Backhouse), Theology - July 2010
Kenneth Orchard, English
Edward Pate, Education - 28 October 2011
Simon Pettitt, Theology - 18 December 2009
David Rees, Education - 23 December 2015
Dr Judith Sidebottom, Chemistry - February 2023
Rodney (Rod) Taylor MBE, Electrical Engineering - 28 January 2018
Carol Wilson (née James), Education
Gillian Wilson (née Robinson), Geography - 2014
Brian Woods, Pharmacy
Anthony Bunch, Law
Kenneth Bloomer, Education - 1975
Richard Anthony Charles, Law - 21 July 2013
Roberto Chizzolini, Food Sciences - 8 April 2004
David Cooke, Industrial Economics
Heather Daly (née Tait-Worsley), Social Administration – 17 November 2021
Colin Darling, Civil Engineering
Deborah Erber (née Roberts), Music - 9 September 2024
For a full obituary please see Brighton Early Music Festival
Sheila Gardiner, Agriculture/Horticulture - 16 March 2022
Obituary published by the University of Nottingham School of Life Sciences is available here .
Lynne Golberg (née Potter), Chemistry/Philosophy
Ian Gray, Mechanical Engineering - 1 August 2011
Sheila Howard (née McShane), Education - 17 October 2017
Sheila Howard gained a B.Ed in 1975.
She went on to pursue a successful teaching career, establishing herself first at Charnwood Secondary School in Clifton and then Harry Carlton, East Leake, as a well-respected English, History and Sociology teacher.
She will be missed by her family as well as her ex-teaching colleagues who remained good friends.
Obituary kindly supplied by Sheila's daughter, Isabel.
Graham Johnston, German and Russian
Graham was a Military Interpreter in the Royal Air Force before studying.
After graduating he became Head of German at the Royal Air Force School for Interpreters in 1975 and Head of Russian at the Royal Air Force School for Interpreters in 1990.
In 1997 he was Head of Slavonic Languages at the Defence Special Signals School before resigning from Ministry of Defence in 2001 to become a full time free lance translator to business of legal, financial and technical papers.
Obituary kindly supplied by Graham's son-in-law, Andreas.
Ian Kettle, Economics - 31 October 2010
Jane Lion (née Greenwood), French - 20 March 2009
Angela Lowrie (née Preece), Medicine - 1 January 2010
Graeme Macmillan, Mining Engineering
Michael McKenna, Civil Engineering - 24 November 2011
Michael Newman, Chemistry
Dr Norman Paskin, Biochemistry - 27 March 2016
Dr Norman Paskin sadly passed away on Easter Sunday 2016.
After taking his degree in Biochemistry at Nottingham in 1975, he obtained his PhD in 1978.
After a brief spell at Blackwell he joined Elsevier science publishers, holding a number of editorial, management and technology roles.
From 1994 – 1998 he was director of information technology development for Elsevier.
He worked on information identifier issues for the scientific, technical and medical publishing community, and has published key papers on the topic.
In 1998 he became the first director of the International DOI (Digital Object Identifier), concerned with overcoming the problems of ‘cataloguing the internet’.
This eventually saw the DOI system accepted as an official ISO standard, and the use of the system expanded both internationally and to other communities such as the movie industry.
In later years Norman also had his own company, Tertius Ltd.
As he put it, ‘providing consultancy services in the digital management of information, and related issues concerning management of products of the human mind’.
The company name was inspired by Jorge Luis Borges, a great favourite of Norman’s:
‘This is the fictional Orbis Tertius (third world) described in Borges' story, Tlon, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius.
It is conjectured that this world is the work of astronomers, biologists, engineers, metaphysicians, poets, chemists, algebraists, moralists, painters, geometers...
The plan is so vast that the contribution of each writer is infinitesimal.’
Norman’s later work on the philosophy behind metadata led him also to the work of Kuhn and Karl Popper.
Elsevier published this last word on Norman:
‘Norm was both cerebral and visionary, playing a leading role in early online publishing experiments at Elsevier and quickly realizing the importance that standards and identifiers would play in underpinning the interoperable world of digital scholarly communications that we know today.
Norman’s friends and family can justly be proud of his legacy and lasting contribution, and we extend our deepest condolences.’ Obituary kindly supplied by Estel Eforgan, Norman's partner and friend for 30 years.
Estel would like to hear from others who knew Dr Paskin, and can be contacted on esteleforgan@gmail.com
Steve Patrick, Physics - 2013
Robert (Henry) Richardson, Agricutlure/Horticulture - 3 March 2023
Deborah Roberts, Music - 9 September 2024
David Riley, Mathematics with engineering
Barbara Sheldon (née Watson), Chemistry
Margaret Sunderland, Education - 28 June 2023
Maurice Waite, Education - April 2006
Dr Robert Young, Mathematics/Economics - 16 January 2023
Mohd Adnan, Production Engineering - February 2011
Allan Ashworth, Chemistry - 17 March 2013
Horace Bennett, Education - September 2012
Margaret Bushell (née Jones), Economic and Social History
Andrew Clifton, English and American Studies - 27 February 2014
Celia Coldham (née Evans), Education - 2005
John Herbert Cox, Education - 2023
Glynis Davies, Education
Anne Ellis (née Mitchell), German - March 2018
Roosevelt Tumpale Ghambi, Urban and Regional Planning - 6 June 2019
John Harrison, Law - 9 January 2009
Nicholas (Nick) Harrison, Law - 14 February 2018
Andrew Hirst, Music - 26 March 2006
Margaret Liebeschuetz, English
Andrea Marden, Psychology - 2017
Jane Mason, Mathematics - 4 April 2012
Kenneth May, Applied Biochemistry/Nutrition
Dr Derek Pearson, Physics - December 2017
David Pym, Education - March 2019
Robin Sisson, English - 24 June 2008
Susan Smith (née Tattersall), Agriculture - October 2020
Shirley Anne Stockwell, French Literature - 21 November 2011
After a long illness I am sorry to announce that Dr Shirley Anne Stockwell (French Literature 1976) died on 21st November 2011.
Shirley fought her battle with tremendous dignity, strength and courage.
Shirley will be remembered as a loving wife, mother, daughter, sister, aunt and friend.
She was an intelligent, kind and caring woman and will be greatly missed by those who knew and loved her.
Obituary kindly supplied by Shirley's husband Alan.
Professor Terence Walters, Law
Paul Webb, Agriculture - 20 January 2012
Stephen Windos, Music - 1 November 2010
Iain Beastall, Education
Dorothy Bell (née Gray), Education
John Bescoby-Chambers, History - 15 December 2012
Dr Malcolm Black, Chemistry - March 2018
Sara Brookes (née Isaac), Geography - September 2013
Sara was born and grew up in Boston, Lincolnshire.
After graduation Sara pursued a career in accountancy and was able to obtain a position with Coopers & Lybrand in Northampton; she qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1980.
She met John (Electrical & Electronic Engineering 1976) in 1974.
They married in 1981 and have lived in Brixworth, Northamptonshire since 1984.
At Coopers and Lybrand (later to become Price Waterhouse Coopers) she rose to the position of Senior Manager before leaving to start a family in 1988.
Sons Michael, Andrew and Oliver were born over the following 5 years.
Sara loved the outdoors, walking, gardening and several sports (squash, tennis, cycling and a bit of rowing).
She also enjoyed cooking and went to great lengths to make sure healthy food, cooked at home, was the order of the day.
She packed the early lives of her sons with numerous activities and experiences, the after school schedule was a master class in logistics.
Once all the boys were established at school she started to work part time in accountancy again – for the British Red Cross, and Osh Kosh B’Gosh.
In 2000 Sara joined Blue Skies Limited, as Financial Controller, a position she held until her untimely death.
At the time she joined, the business was run from a family home, but went on to become a multi-million pound turnover business based at offices in Pitsford, Northamptonshire.
Blue Skies (Queen’s Awards Winners) prepare fresh fruit mainly in the countries where they grow, ready to be in the UK and other European supermarkets only days later.
Sara regularly visited the factories in Ghana, South Africa, Egypt and Brazil.
The training centre in Brazil has been named in her memory.
Sara has taken part in the London to Brighton cycle ride raising money for the British Heart Foundation, taken part in the Moon Walk in London in aid of the Breast Cancer charity, and several times taken part in the local cycle ride to raise money for the Cynthia Spencer Hospice.
Sara was first diagnosed with breast cancer in 2008, and throughout the treatments to fight the disease, she continued working.
She lost the final battle in September 2013.
There is a spinney in Boston Woods recently dedicated to Sara.
Obituary kindly supplied by Sara's husband John.
Lynn Cunningham (née Litherland), Law - 15 December 2010
Vernon Cutler, Education
Diana Draisey (née Kemp), Music - 31 January 2011
Geoffrey Danson, Agriculture/Horticulture - 2 October 2017
Raymond Allan Farnell, Mechanical Engineering - 28 February 2013
Geoffrey Halstead, Physics - 2012
Alan Hind, Education - 16 December 2023
Geoffrey Alexander Hanna, Industrial Economics
Michael Hardy, Education - 23 August 2012
Yvonne Howes (née Evans), English/School of Education
Ann Hutchinson (née Burchett), Physics - 23 August 2014
Dr Kenneth Lawson, Philosophy - 7 April 2017
The death has occurred of Dr.
Kenneth Lawson of the Department of Adult Education at the University of Nottingham, aged 89, on 7th April 2017.
There was no one more committed to the cause of adult education than Kenneth.
I use the word cause deliberately because for Kenneth it was a cause, almost a crusade, and it was one in which he spent the bulk of his working life.
He was himself in fact a beneficiary of that cause, since in 1950 he began to study at Fircroft Working Men’s College in Selly Oak.
After that, in 1951 he went to the famous Ruskin College in Oxford, and after gaining a Diploma in Politics and Economics he went from there to St.
John’s College in Oxford where he read Politics, Philosophy and Economics, and gained his BA in two years – quite an extraordinary achievement.
Just how extraordinary can be gauged from the fact that here was a man who left school at 14 to become an apprentice aircraft rigger: manual worker to standing alongside those who had had a conventional and often extremely privileged education.
In 1958, he came to the University of Nottingham, where he was Warden at the Shakespeare Street Centre, and as well taught economics to miners on day release courses.
In the days when we had a mining industry such courses not only informed miners about national and global topics, but acted as a conduit for those aspiring to high office in the Union, and those wishing to follow the same educational route as Kenneth himself had done.
Later he became Assistant Director of the Department.
He soon began work on the topic which brought him international recognition producing much respected literature on what came to be called the philosophy of Adult Education.
His papers and books, Philosophical Concepts and Values in Adult Education (1975, second revised edition 1979) and Analysis and Ideology: Conceptual Essays on the Education of Adults (1982) were influential.
He was a political activist too, and after the descent in Britain of the Thatcher pestilence of the 1980s, led a national campaign to ‘Save Adult Education’.
As well as his literary output, this is his memorial, as well as affectionate memories of a convivial and respected colleague.
Obituary kindly supplied by Professor Emeritus J.E.
(Teddy) Thomas.
Roy Lucas, Education - 13 February 2007
Gregg Maxson
Michael McCabe, American Studies - 11 April 2008
John Moorfoot, Education - 20 February 2006
Mark Parr, Chemistry - 21 October 2020
Linda Pym, Law - 18 April 2014
Sheila Ransom (née Fairclough), Zoology - September 2013
Timothy Shaw, Chemical Engineering
Sarah Simkin (née Coulthurst), Pharmacy/Pharmaceutical Sciences - 20 August 2010
Kevin Stephenson, Physics
Robert Stephenson, Chemistry - 22 November 2012
John Sumner, Pharmacy/Pharmaceutical Sciences - 4 September 1996
Milton Tan, Architecture - 2010
Alan Turner, Agriculture/Horticulture - 31 January 2010
Philip Vernon, History - 27 October 2010
Stephen Young, Mathematics - 31 January 2011
Kenneth Atkin, Mathematics - February 2011
Nicholas Briggs, Agriculture/Horticulture - March 2021
Simon Bruce, Psychology - November 2021
Rosemary Buxton (née England), Psychology - 5 November 2006
Alan Clark, Education - 26 July 2017
John Clegg, Law - 23 September 2023
Rosemary Arrowsmith Clews, Social Work - April 2013
Antony Cooksey, Education
Robert Cordell, Education
John Crowther, Music - March 2008
Keith Dadds, Education - February 2003
Lauren De Graft Rosenior, Electrical Engineering
Lauren De Graft Rosenior was born in London on September 5, 1956, and was the first of five children born to Willie (an electrical engineer with the R.A.F) and Gladys Rosenior (a qualified nurse) who arrived from Sierra Leone, West Africa in the 1950s.
The family lived in Brixton, then Clapham Park, where Lauren went to King’s Acre Primary School and her studious nature was nurtured.
As her brother Leroy remarked in his funeral tribute, “ I didn’t know what my eldest sister looked like for years because she always had her head in a book”.
The headmistress of King’s Acre insisted that her prodigy tried for a place at St.
Martin-in-the-Field High School for Girls, Tulse Hill.
Here, Lauren gained A levels in Maths (Pure and Applied) and Physics, was Head Girl and played sports.
In 1975 she was accepted into Nottingham University to study Electrical and Electronic Engineering, the only woman in the 70-strong intake.
On gaining a good degree, Lauren joined Mars Confectionery in 1978 In 1982, the Institute of Electrical Engineers awarded Lauren the Engineer of the Year award, which was presented by HRH Duke of Kent.
She was only the fifth woman to win the award.
Lauren spent the next year promoting Women in Engineering as a worthwhile career.
It is with that in mind we have set up LaurenDavidson.MuchLoved.com to help fund a Scholarship in her name, for young women wanting to study Engineering.
Her diagnosis of Pancreatic Cancer in 2023 was met with a typically stoic resolve to do the best she could with her time remaining, including her daughter Rebecca getting married, holidays in Madeira and Italy and preparing to welcome her first grandchild, due in May 2025.
Her funeral at All Saints Church, West Dulwich on January 25, 2025, was attended by over 250 people, including former school friends and Mars’ colleagues, live-streamed to over 15 countries, and was the same Church she and Jimmy Davidson were married in, 45 years ago.
Sleep on Beloved.
Obituary kindly supplied by her husband, Jimmy Davidson.
Vanessa Franklin, Psychology - 3 March 2009
Haydn Gwynne, Sociology - 20 October 2023
Obituary from the Guardian
Alan Heywood Kenny, English
Anita Higgie, English and Linguistics - November 2010
Katrina Honeyman, Economic and Social History - 23 October 2011
Bharat Kakkad, Production Engineering - May 2019
Ingrid Lyon (née Selby), Education
Alan McIntyre, American Studies
Anne Milner, Agriculture/Horticulture - 24 December 2012
John Nicholls, Social Administration - 10 May 2023
Dr Kevin Ocraft, Biology & Chemistry - 23 May 2014
Richard Page, Medicine - February 2008
John Palshis, Chemistry
Elaine Parr (née Baxter), Psychology - 29 August 1996
Colin Readman, Electrical Engineering
Olive Senior, Applied Social Science
Mark Whitehead, Law - 2018
Gabriel Adebayo Adegboyega, Electrical Engineering - 1 October 2024
Gabriel Adebayo Adegboyega, 76 years, died unexpectedly after a brief illness.
Born on 17th July, 1948 in Osun State, Nigeria.
He gained a first class honours Bachelor of Science in Electronics and Electrical Engineering in 1972 at the University of Ife(now Obafemi Awolowo University).
He also studied at Brown University,Rhode Island,USA where he obtained his master’s degree in 1973.
He studied for his PhD in Nottingham University which he obtained in 1979.
He started his academic career as a graduate assistant in his department in Nigeria on October 1, 1972.
Climbing the academic ladder steadily, he rose through the ranks to become a Professor on October 1, 1992.
Along the way, he was Head of Department, Elect/Elect Engineering and also Dean, Faculty of Technology.
He belonged to MIEEE(UK) and was also a COREN registered engineer.
He retired from the University in 2018 at the age of 70 but was still teaching pro bono at his department.
In March 2023, he was given the prestigious honour of Professor Emeritus.
He married his wife, Riyike on the 25th of August 1973.
They were married for 47 years before her demise.
Gabriel is survived by 4 children and 7 grandchildren.
Besides his love for electrical engineering, his hobbies were traveling, football, music and fishing.
He was extremely hardworking and very humble.
He left a great legacy.
He will be buried in his hometown in Osun State, Nigeria on the 6th of December, 2024.
Obituary kindly supplied by his son, Bolaji.
The Reverend Dr Gerald Barlow, Theology - March 2018
Jill Benner, Chemistry - April 2011
Carolyn Boag (née Pocock), English - 7 July 2010
Barbara Brown, French/Spanish - 25 January 2011
Stephen Church, Chemistry - May 2011
Andrew Charles Cochran, Civil Engineering
M Christopher Coupland, English - 14 August 2005
Martin Ellison, Electrical Engineering
John Evans, Education
Philip Glithero, Medicine - 20 November 2012
Colin Hancock, Education - 9 January 2009
James (Jim) Hill, Education - 26 September 2009
James Herron, Physics & Applied Physics with Electronics - 2015
Karen Hobbay, Education - October 2015
Janice Hull, Pharmacy/Pharmaceutical Sciences - 18 April 2021
Kenneth Hyde, Education - 2012
Paul Kelly, Chemistry
Marian Knott, Education - 2 May 2012
Ngi Law, Production Engineering
Graham McCartney, Mining engineering
Robert Megarry, Honourary Graduate - 11 October 2006
Jacqueline Norman (née Garside), Botany/Geography - 7 November 2023
Christopher Skinner, Law - 14 February 2017
Derek Talbot, Philosophy
Simon Tory, Economics
Fiona Wakefield (née Nathan), Industrial Economics - 27 April 2008
John Abram, Chemistry - 2021
Keith Atherton, Mining Engineering - 10 July 2009
Hugh Langley Barlow, Geography - 27 August 2015
Richard Bough, Pharmacy - 1 July 2006
Kenneth Bufton, Agriculture - 1 April 2020
Kenneth (Russell) Cann, Law
Professor David Clegg, Mathematics - 18 February 2025
Janet Davies (née Andrews), Applied Social Science - October 2016
Robert Dryden, Mathematics - 10 August 2020
After graduating, Bob became a Maths teacher in Watford and Bedford and a further education lecturer in Kettering.
He loved music and played in the University orchestra where he met Sheila, a secretary at the university.
They married in 1962 and had a son (Ian) and a daughter (Heather).
Bob underwent a liver transplant in 1993, giving him an extra 27 years.
His son is now a Professor of Statistics in the School of Mathematical Sciences at the University of Nottingham.
Obituary kindly supplied by Robert's wife, Sheila.
Tristram Eastwood, Russian Studies
Norman Franklin, Chemistry - 15 May 2024
Ivor Gledhill, Theology - 25 April 2024
Robert Goodge, Russian
William Griffin, Pharmacy - 4 June 2007
Hugh Hamilton, Law - 2 May 2021
Erica Heather  (née Paul), Zoology
Jack Hobman, Chemistry - 25 August 2017
Christopher Kiernan, Psychology - 23 April 2011
Roger Kohn, History - September 2015
Mary Langford, Music - 27 December 2010
Sheila Leach, French/Spanish
Michael Light, Mechanical Engineering - 17 June 2008
Pamela Marsh (née Fox), Pharmacy - 17 January 2007
David Marston, Agriculture/Horticulture
William Martin, Chemistry - 24 February 2012
Jasmine Matthison, English - December 2011
Roger McCallister, Geology/Geography
John Mitchell, Electrical Engineering - 18 July 2025
For a full obituary please see Arbor Memorial
Gillian Mowat (née Garside), Dairying - 22 January 2013
David Newland, Mechanical Engineering - 2 April 2011
Alan Plumtree, Metallurgy - 5 November 2020
Passed away suddenly on November 5, 2020.
Beloved husband of Diana for 61 years, loving father and grandfather of Rebecca (Jim) and their children Katherine and John, and Jonathan (Clare) and their children Evan and Tessa.
He is survived by his siter Barbara in the UK.
Alan was a Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Mechanical and Mechatronics Engineering at the University of Waterloo.
Born in Lincolnshire, England in 1936, he received his B.Sc.
in Metallurgy at the University of Nottingham in 1960.
He continued there for his PhD.
During which time he lectured at Nottingham Trent University.
On completion of his doctorate programme he and Diana emigrated to Canada accepting an appointment as Assistant Professor in the Department of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering, University of Toronto.
In 1965 he moved to the Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Waterloo.
Professor Plumtree served in many capacities at UW including Associate Dean for Graduate Studies, and Research Senator, and member of the Board of Governors.
His major interests were in the relationship between the mechanical properties of materials and their microstructure composition and heat treatment.
He was the author of more than 200 scientific and technical publications.
For his achievements Alan was awarded the Doctor of Science degree from the University of Nottingham in 1997.
He is known internationally as the co-designer and developer of the Waterloo Pump which provides potable water to villages in developing countries around the world.
Alan and Diana loved international travel which took them to many countries including most of Europe and the Mediterranean, Scandinavia, Egypt, Argentina, Chile, Australia, New Zealand, Hawaii, Tahiti and New Caledonia.
Alan was a keen follower of Premier League soccer but on summer weekends the countryside beckoned and day trips around Ontario with a picnic lunch at hand were simple pleasures he enjoyed.
Alans family would like to extend special thanks to the first responders who were with Alan to the end and all the caregivers and PSWs who have helped him over the past year.
Obituary kindly supplied by Alan's wife Diana Plumtree.
Barbara Przedborska, Salvonic/French Studies - 24 February 2011
Noel Richards, Social Administration - 7 July 1998
Professor Graham (John) Rogers, Philosophy - 26 November 2022
John was Emeritus Professor of Philosophy (Keele) and an internationally renowned scholar of seventeenth century philosophy (and founding editor of the British Journal of the History of Philosophy).
Born in pre-war India, where his father was a major in the British army, John returned to England in 1944 and grew up in Southampton.
He had a distinguished career at King Edward’s Grammar School, not least due to his sporting prowess, earning him recognition as the school’s best all-round athlete.
Before his A level studies, he won an American Field Service scholarship and spent a happy year in Minnesota.He went up to Nottingham University in 1957 to study Philosophy and the friendships formed in Hugh Stewart Hall lasted a lifetime.
In 1960, he started doctoral studies at St Catherine’s, Oxford and, in 1962, accepted a position of Lecturer in the Philosophy Department at Keele University where he remained until his retirement as Emeritus Professor of Philosophy.
His colleagues describe John as a “scholar and a gentleman”.
His scholarship was extensive, not only in a formidable output of published essays and editorship of many collections of essays, but also with the completion of two large-scale editions of John Locke’s Essay and Thomas Hobbes’s Leviathan.
He founded, and for many years edited, The British Journal of the History of Philosophy which rapidly became one of the premier journals of the history of ideas.
He was Head of Keele’s Philosophy Department for many years and is fondly remembered by generations of colleagues and students alike for his calmness, courtesy and thoughtfulness.
As one said: “It is easy to be clever, it is much harder to be nice.” He successfully steered the Department through the troubled times when philosophy departments nationwide were under threat, securing its future.
In retirement, he joined his local Rotary club, played golf and enjoyed family time with his beloved wife, Jo, (whom he met at Keele when she was a student).
They had been married for over 54 years and Jo was proud to have been able to care for him during his final years of health problems.
John died very peacefully in November 2022, aged 84, after a period of declining health.
He leaves wife Jo, daughters Sara and Rachel, and was proud Grandpa to five grandchildren.
Obituary kindly supplied by John's wife Jo-Ann.
Dr Neville Rieger, Mechanical Engineering - 22 August 2022
Dr Charles K Rowley, Industrial Economics - 2013
Sheila Savill, English - 28 October 2017
Dr David Saul, Education - 15 May 2017
Michael Shenton, Civil Engineering - 9 February 2010
Brian Storey, Physics - 2 March 2010
The Reverend Richard Strevens, Theology - 13 January 2018
Derek Taylor, Law - 10 October 2006
Dr Ian Taylor, Civil Engineering - 2018
Kenneth Thomas, Geography - 18 July 2021
Arthur Thorn, Mechanical Engineering
Dr Cedric Thornton, Metallurgy - September 2024
John Trudgill, Economics - 17 June 2022
Ian Wagstaff, Chemistry - 2006
Keith Whitehead, Economics - 5 December 2017
Alan Wood, History - April 2016
Brian Abell, Theology - 31 October 2015
Barbara Armitage, Pharmacy - 2023
Donald Bain, Geology - July 2009
Michael Barker, Physics - 10 December 2006
Anthony Beaty, Civil Engineering
Roger Berkeley, Botany - September 2010
John Bisson, Chemistry - 2 February 2011
Martyn Bittleston, English
Peter Bosworth, Civil Engineering
Michael Brooke, Civil Engineering - 14 January 2011
Brenda Brown, Mathematics
The Reverend Dr Colin Brown, Theology - 4 May 2019
Roger Brown, Law - 2014
Richard Butterfield, Chemistry - 21 November 2008
Rabindra Chakravorty, Mining Engineering - 22 July 2006
John Clarke, Geography - November 2011
Richard Cootes, History - 7 December 2017
Peter Davies, Pharmacy - January 2008
Ronald Davies, Zoology - 12 February 2009
Brian Dear, German - 30 April 2015
Neil de Voil, Law - 22 April 2019
David Diprose, Botany/Zoology - 2023
Eric Nolan Doe, Electrical Engineering
David Dowse, French - November 2008
Michael (Robin) Ellwood, Electrical Engineering - 13 July 2019
On Saturday, July 13, 2019, Michael Robin Ellwood, loving husband and father of two children, passed away peacefully at age 80 following a six-year battle with Parkinson’s disease.
His wife, Jenifer, was at his side when he passed at their residence in Poway (San Diego), California.
Robin was born in Leicester, England, to Samuel and Molly Ellwood, who both preceded him in death.
He married Jenifer, the love of his life, in 1973, who survives him.
He is also survived by his son Christopher and daughter Holly, his granddaughter Amelia, and his brothers Bruce and Barry and sister Susan.
Robin earned a Bachelor of Science degree (w/1st class honours) in Electrical Engineering from the University of Nottingham in 1961 and a Masters of Science degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Tennessee in 1962.
He worked for 50 years as an Electrical and Software Engineer for British Thomson-Houston (Associated Electrical Industries), Philco-Ford and Teledyne and held a patent for one of his many innovative designs.
He later worked as an independent consultant for Danford, Global, and GHI Systems
Robin resided with his family in Porter Ranch (Northridge), California for 44 years and became a United States citizen in 1981.
He had previously lived in Canoga Park and Woodland Hills, as well as Clear Lake (Houston), Texas.
In addition to being a brilliant engineer, Robin was a proficient musician, most notably on the drums and trumpet, but also piano, saxophone, violin, and flute.
He enjoyed riding his bicycle daily and was an avid photographer and astronomer.
He was an active member of his church, St.
Martin in-the-fields, in Winnetka, California.
Obituary kindly supplied by Robin's son, Christopher.
Further details available via The Michael J Fox Foundation
Jo Faccenda, Geography - August 2009
Keith Foster, Industrial Economics - 1 June 2010
Mary Gould, English
Jeffrey Hindley, History - 3 May 2018
Jack Hogbin, Theology - 17 December 2017
Trevor Hold, Music - 28 January 2004
Keith Howarth, Law
Kathleen Juhasz, German
Colin Keast, Chemistry - 8 August 2022
Elizabeth Law (née Turk), Social Administration - 16 July 2009
Alan (Clive) Lee, Mechanical Engineering - November 2021
Dr Graeme Lee, Mechanical Engineering
Janet Lloyd (née Honey), Mathematics - 26 April 2018
Jean Valerie May (née Hill), French – June 2022
Graham Milner, Theology
John Moore, French - June 2012
Hugh Morris, Zoology/Chemistry - January 2011
Roger Mottram, Psychology
Dr Roger Onyett, Physics/Psychology - 26 November 2022
Richard J Osborn, Physics/Mathematics - 2008
Colin Oxlee, Metallurgy - July 2001
Sarah Paget, Economic History - 2008
Derek Penna, Mathematics - 26 March 2015
Thomas (Alan) Place, Metallurgy - 29 November 2021
Christopher Pronger, Economics - 2016
Gillian Rose, History
Keith Sargent, Electrical Engineering - 9 July 2007
Marguerite Stephenson (née Lindsay), History - 3 May 2015
John Spratling, History - 22 October 2011
Dr Michael Smith, French/Spanish - 30 October 2018
David Sumpter, Agricutlure/Horticulture
Richard Walter Tann, Industrial Economics - 3 October 2013
Gareth Thomas, Chemistry - 22 August 2013
Joan Trubshaw, French - 16 August 2022
Arthur (Dick) Turnell, Matallurgy - 14 January 2024
John Zetter, Geography
After graduating, John trained as a planner, rising to a senior level in the Department of Environment in the late 1970s and 1980s as Head of International Affairs and later Head of Research.
From 1982-1986 he was Head of Urban Affairs at the OECD in Paris.
He also passed a sabbatical semester as a visiting professor in the urban programme of Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore and, more recently had been a visiting professor at the Bartlett School of Planning at UCL.
For many years he served as a board member, trustee and vice president of the Town and Country Planning Association.
Obituary kindly supplied by Roger Zetter.
Robert Ayres, Mechanical Engineering - July 2011
Richard Beacham OBE, Law - 18 June 2008
Keith Bird, Law - 18 January 2018
Alastair Bissett-Johnson, Law - 9 July 2008
David Bromilow, Electrical Engineering - 2023
Philip Brooks, Pharmacy - 10 June 2018
Philip Richard Bowman Brooks, died suddenly at home in Wylam, Northumberland on 10th June 2018, aged 78.
He studied Pharmacy at Nottingham University from 1959-1962, and became a relief manager with Boots the Chemist in branches around Suffolk.
In 1964 he retrained at Leeds University in Town Planning and worked for a time in many mining villages of the West Riding of Yorkshire.
In 1969 he moved to Northumberland, working for the County Council there until his retirement in 1998.
He lived in Wylam from 1970, where he became a Parish and District Councillor- starting the village newsletter, setting up the Village Railway Museum- birthplace of George Stephenson- and latterly working with a small group investigating the lives of people listed on the village war memorial.
In recent years he enjoyed visiting his daughter, now living in Nottingham.
He actively supported the University, latterly through the Nottingham Alumini campaign for student scholarships.
He leaves a widow Barbara, daughter Rebecca and son Matthew.
Obituary kindly supplied by the Brooks family.
Michael Capes, Physics - June 2018
Robert Carter, Economics - 16 September 2012
John Cayton, Law - 14 September 2011
Graham Coleman, Politics - 15 June 2023
John Davies, Theology - 13 April 2021
Howard Fisher, Law - October 2012
Valerie Gillespie (née O'Reilly), English - December 2007
Ian Gordon, Chemistry - 6 December 2018
Ian devoted his career to teaching rising from Chemistry teacher to Head Teacher over 30 years, returning to the science lab after early retirement.
Also during retirement he served 6 years as County Ecumenical Development Officer for Bedfordshire, jointly with his wife, Adrienne, also a graduate of Nottingham University.
He died from Acute Myeloid Leukaemia at the age of 77.
Obituary kindly supplied by Ian's wife, Adrienne.
Maureen Gowers, History - 7 December 2006
The Reverend Canon Bruce Grainger, Theology - 2 September 2019
Michael Greaves, Agriculture/Microbiology - October 2010
Dr Timothy Hall, Botany - 23 February 2016
Joanna Hughes, Russian Studies - 24 December 2013
Kenneth Jones, Chemistry - 2008
John Land, Metallurgy - January 2021
In January 2020, hockey stalwart and former Olympian John Land, passed away peacefully aged 82 following an illness.
While at Nottingham, John was part of the 1959-1961 Men’s Hockey team which was named the University’s Greatest Team in 2015.
Known as an exceptional athlete and with great pace, John played in the England and GB Men’s Hockey team in the 1960s, taking part in the 1964 Tokyo Olympic Games.
Rediscovering hockey later in life, he played for England at Masters level, winning gold medals at O60, O65 and O70 levels and played in the first ever team international O75 against Holland in 2015.
John did a lot of work for hockey over many years and was instrumental in creating the opportunity and promoting O60s hockey in the North.
He was the first north regional representation for the England LX club bringing many North players into international grand masters hockey, and his work now means the North run sides at O60, O65 and O70 level in regional tournaments.
He leaves his wife Julie, sons Keith and Nigel, daughter Sheena, their partners and six grandchildren.
Full obituary available at Great Britain Hockey website.
Roger Land, Agriculture/Horticulture/Physiology
John Leng, Chemistry - 14 September 2024
Ian Longson, Mining Engineering - 10 September 2018
Derek May, Psychology - 7 January 2018
Dr Anthony McCann, Electirical Engineering - 25 May 2021
McCann, Anthony David (Tony) died on 25 May 2021 aged 79.
After Worksop College, he undertook a 5 year student apprenticeship with Richard Thomas and Baldwins, a steel company based in Wales.
As part of the “thick” sandwich he obtained a first in Electrical Engineering at Nottingham University.
After leaving RTB he spent a year working for Elliott Automation as a project engineer.
In 1964 he went to Cambridge to study for a PhD in control systems engineering as a member of St John’s College.
His PhD was awarded in 1968 and for the next nine years he worked for Hawker Siddeley in Group Management Services.
In 1977 he joined Rolls-Royce Motors Holdings Ltd at Crewe as Corporate Planning Executive.
In 1980 Vickers took over Rolls-Royce Motors which resulted in a move to London as Director of Planning, and he was appointed to the Board as Development Director in 1986.
In 1989 he left Vickers and joined his wife, Christine (Nottingham, Chemistry 1971) in McCann Research, a consultancy partnership which continued successfully for the next 10 years, Tony consulting on Corporate Strategy and Organisation, while Christine offered Market Research Consultancy in pharmaceuticals.
They wound up the partnership at the end of 1999 and saw in the new Millennium on Westminster Bridge before retiring to Bath.
Tony joined Bathampton Parish Council in 2002 and became Chairman in 2003, a post which he held for 12 years.
He had a strong interest in motor sport – especially Formula 1 – and was an avid Times reader and cruciverbalist; there were few days when the Times crossword went unsolved.
He was married twice, first to Jenny in 1967 with whom he had two sons, David and Alistair; and second to Christine in 1981.
They all survive him.
Obituary kindly supplied by Anthony's wife Christine McCann.
Malcolm McPherson, Mining Engineering - 12 November 2008
Kenneth David Miller, Pharmacy - 20 June 2019
Dr Charles (Chas) Miller, Electrical Engineering
David Nalson, History
John Newsome, Electrical Engineering
Edward (Roger) Norburn, English - 17 December 2023
Born and educated in Bedford, Roger came to Nottingham in the late 1950s to study English Literature (a BA followed by an MA).
He was a resident of Hugh Stewart Hall where he was also librarian.
After graduating Roger began work for the WEA and spent his entire career in adult education until retirement in 1998.
He was both a tutor organiser and a teacher focusing, of course, on English Literature which was his life’s passion.
Over a period spanning more than three decades many thousands of students have enjoyed courses organised and led by Roger.
In later life he published two books in the Palgrave-Macmillan Author Chronologies series on Katherine Mansfield and James Joyce, ensuring that his scholarly work will continue to assist future generations of literature students.
Roger maintained a close connection to Nottingham throughout his life.
He met his wife Mary, a native of the city, not long after graduating and their only child Jonathan was born here.
His nephew and niece studied at the university and the former is currently Professor of Sustainable Building Design in the Faculty of Engineering.
Roger is survived by his wife and son who were with him when his life reached a peaceful ending on 17th December 2023.
Obituary kindly supplied by Roger's son, Jon
Diane Oldfield, Chemistry - 31 December 1999
Michael Owen, Mechanical Engineering - 11 May 2012
Derek Palmer, Metallurgy - 8 January 2024
Derek died on 8th January 2024 aged 85.
He was educated at The City School in Lincoln and at Nottingham University where, in 1962, he graduated in Metallurgy.
He started work in Birmingham with a research team in a company that was developing new types of steel.
After a few years, he joined the Ministry of Defence as a civil servant where he remained for the rest of his career.
He started at the MOD Directorate of Materials Research HQ in London, and thence to Fort Halstead in West Kent where he worked in Government Research and Development.
Mid-career, he had four enjoyable years at the British Embassy in Washington DC as UK-US Liaison Officer on all Materials Research and Development between UK and US Defence Laboratories.
On his return to Fort Halstead, he worked as a UK Project Manager, liaising with the French and Germans.
After a four-year posting at Shoeburyness where he managed the Research and Development on Instrumentation for UK Defence Ranges (and lived in Army Quarters), he returned once again to Fort Halstead.
There he took on more and more managerial roles, much of them in international liaison and committee work with the NATO countries, and with the opportunity to travel worldwide; he eventually became Deputy Head at Fort Halstead.
Derek enjoyed many happy years in retirement, pursuing his many hobbies, first in Scotland, the perfect location for his love of the outdoors, nature and hill-walking (He was a popular Chairman of the local hill-walking club, the Strathearn Ramblers.) Gardening and competitive photography figured large during his Scottish sojourn.
There followed six years in France.
Derek loved France: the food, the wine, the weather, the people.
He was a creative, self-taught cook and, being naturally extrovert and gregarious, he cultivated many friends in the local market and community.
Derek was a talented musician; he was a superb pianist and organist.
Throughout his life, he had given his services, freely, to the local community, as parish church organist, or pianist for the local pantomime or variety show.
On his return to England, Derek selflessly devoted the last ten, active years of his life to the care of his grandson.
The love and support Derek gave to his family was immense; as a husband, father, and grandfather he was fun, energetic, generous and kind.
Derek and Sheila had a long marriage, sixty years together, with the usual trials and tribulations, many adventures and shared experiences, yet full of love and joy and mutual respect; they were a great match for each other.
Derek is survived by Sheila, his son, his daughter, and three grandchildren.
Obituary kindly supplied by Derek's wife, Sheila
David Parker, English - 2 February 2013
Jonathan (Geoff) Pinder, Civil Engineering - 16 January 2024
Doreen Ramsden, Pharmacy/Pharmaceutical Sciences - 2023
Anne Ridings, History - December 2007
Warwick Silber, Physics - 31 August 2015
Janusz Smoczkiewicz, Law - 1972
Dr Edward (David) Steel, Zoology - 17 October 2018
Ann Tollervey, Mathematics - December 1962
Barbara Vaughan (née Grey), Physics
Christopher Wigzell, Philosophy - 10 May 2012
Roy Williams, Law - 25 January 2025
Roy Grainger Williams died on 25 January 2025 aged 84 years.
He was born in Warrington on 29 December 1940.
In his early life, Roy lived in Thorpe Bay, Essex where he developed a life-long love of sailing.
He attended Westcliff Grammer School, before going on to study at Nottingham University (LL.B, 1959-1962).
He achieved a W.
M.
Tapp Postgraduate Scholarship and was admitted to Gonville and Caius as an Affiliated Student (LL.M, 1962-1964).
Roy gained his Half Blue for Sailing in 1963.
In 1965, Roy joined Linklaters & Paines City of London Solicitors, where he practiced revenue law and was admitted as a solicitor in 1967.
After practicing at Samuel Montagu & Co (City Merchant Bank) Mergers and Acquisitions from 1969-70, he returned to Linklaters & Paines between 1970-72 to specialise in company and commercial law.
From 1972-76, he served as the Finance and Corporate Director of Shenley Investments Ltd, dealing with property insurance and banking interests.
He was Investment Director of the Property Growth Assurance Company Ltd from 1972-1980, a life assurance company which is now part of Royal & Sun Assurance.
In 1976, Roy formed the private property group Cardinal Lysander, where he served as a Director and significant shareholder until 2025.
This group specialised in commercial property investment and development, and venture capital investment across diverse areas including oil, metals and tech.
A very modest man of great wit, Roy was deeply interested in the Arts.
He enjoyed music and supported The Orchestra of the Swan for many years.
He was a keen theatre-goer, even making grammatical corrections to scripts performed at the National Theatre.
He continued to explore the oceans and sailed his boat around Europe, the Eastern Seaboard, the Caribbean, New Zealand, and Fiji.
He provided funding for Cambridge University Sailing Club boats and sponsored the Youth Sailing Trust in St Mawes.
Roy is sadly missed by his wife Deborah, five children Kate, Hugh, Amy, Charles and Henry, and his eleven grandchildren.
Obituary kindly supplied by Roy's wife, Deborah
Geoffrey Woodruff, Pharmacy - 1 June 2007
John Abdy, Theology - 27 November 2011
Robert (Bob) Armstrong, Chemistry - 9 January 2020
Bob was an outstanding inorganic chemist, a stalwart of the Nottingham University Jazz Band and a dear friend to his close fellow freshmen of the 1960 intake.
Bob, with the benefit of hindsight, was always going to be an inorganic chemist; his grasp of the subject was impressive.
After graduation he studied for his MPhil at Northampton Polytechnic, now the City University.
He then spent the rest of his long career in industry, first of all in the UK and latterly in the USA, where his initial misgivings about living there gave way to an appreciation of the American way of life.
In parallel with his academic studies, Bob was also a trombonist, who played in the London Schools Symphony Orchestra.
On arrival at Nottingham he naturally gravitated to the university’s jazz band, lead at that time by the legendary Roger Eames.
The band made two long-playing recordings and came second in the Inter-University Jazz Federation Contest in 1961.
Bob continued playing when he moved to the States, being involved with two local groups in his home town of Midland, Georgia.
Bob also volunteered, latterly, at The Open Door Community House in Columbus, Georgia, teaching the trombone to underprivileged young people.
Bob suffered a major heart attack on his birthday, 1 January 2020, and died in hospital eight days later.
He was 79.
Obituary kindly supplied by Terry Baines (Chemistry, 1963; 1967)
George (Les) Atkinson, Industrial Economics - 18 March 2021
George Leslie Atkinson, known to everyone as Les, died at his home in Cleveland, Ohio on Thursday 18 March 2021.
Les and I met by serendipity, in the autumn of 1960; the Hugh Stewart Hall process for allocating accommodation had put us together.
My first impression of Les was that he had just stepped off a trawler in Hull, with his fishermen’s knit sweater, baggy corduroys, pipe and, most important of all, a big bushy beard.
Les was a one-off.
That old cliché about the mould being broken after he was born applied to Les like no other person I have ever met.
Les had been educated at Bishops Stortford School, so he appreciated the need for some home comforts and consequently he had brought with him in his elderly Austin Seven, a portable radio, a reel-to-reel tape recorder and an electric toaster.
The latter acquired notoriety as, while it was carrying out its designated function, it could trip out all the power in L block.
Les studied Industrial Economics and, in his final year, 1963, he had a student exchange offer with Kraft Foods in the USA.
To enter the USA he needed either a student visa, which carried a six month time limit, or an immigrant’s visa, which was open-ended but which carried with it the risk of the draft.
Les, sensibly, enquired at the US Embassy on the chances of his being called-up and he was assured that this was very unlikely.
Les landed in New York in late summer 1963 and started working for Kraft as an internal auditor.
Six months later he was called up.
Les had the option to return home but he decided that his future probably lay in the USA, a brave decision but typical of him.
He served his two years, initially in at a camp in Oklahoma, an area he described as desolate.
He was then posted to Korea.
Fortunately by that time the Korean War was over and the Vietnam War had not yet started.Following his demob, he continued with his role of internal auditor, roaming widely over the States in his station wagon, staying at motels and coping with the suspicions of Kraft employees, associated with his role as company ‘spy’; a seemingly lonely life, which many would have found intolerable, but which Les embraced with his characteristic resilience.
He also began his accountancy studies for the Certified Public Accountant qualification, which he achieved in 1976.
His travels eventually brought him to Cleveland in 1966, which became a turning point in his life.
It was here that he met Linda, his wife to be, and a career change from the peripatetic to the settled role of company accountant.
Linda and Les married in 1969 and subsequently had two sons, David and Ian.
With his marriage to Linda, Les converted to Judaism.
This was no conversion of convenience; with Les’s usual enthusiasm he completely embraced his new faith.
In 1986 he became president of his synagogue, a significant honour.
In 1998 he was invited to join the board of the Union for Reformed Judaism, a pan-USA organisation and he served on this until his passing.
Les developed cancer of the liver in December 2020, which despite a new immunotherapy treatment, progressed aggressively, necessitating hospitalisation in early March.
During increasing discomfort and pain, Les remained courteous to the hospital staff.
To the end he was true to himself, remaining stoic in the face of finality.
Les’ passing leaves an unfillable hole in the lives of all who knew him but most of all for Linda, their two sons and four grandchildren.
(Obituary kindly supplied by Terry Baines, Chemistry 1963)
Carol Bain (née Henderson), Pharmacy - 15 May 2009
Dr Paul Baker, Chemistry
Wendy Bateson (née Helsby), Chemistry - 15 June 2018
Wendy was a much loved person who lived a full and useful life.
Leaving Nottingham University with a degree in chemistry she promptly changed her career path to one in computing as IT was known then.
Rapidly she became an expertin this then new field.
Later she met and married her first husband, an American, and moved to the USA.
Wendy was a sympathetic and outgoing person and joined in the social life, becoming, among other things, president of the local Soroptimist organisation.
Wendy's independent spirit, intelligence and hard work enabled her to pursue a very good career in the USA as an IT consultant to a wide variety of organizations, a career she thoroughly enjoyed.
She became a US citizen in 1988 and, after the death of her first husband, married Simon, an engineer from England.
Simon and Wendy shared an idyllic marriage of 25 years until Wendy's sudden death on 15th June 2018.
She is missed but celebrated by all who knew her, as a truly an exceptional human being.
Obituary kindly supplied by Wendy's husband Simon.
Charles Berkeley, French and Spanish - 4 March 2013
Stanley Clements, Electrical Engineering - 6 September 2009
Stanley worked as an engineer for 41 years, 37 of those in the Ontario Nuclear industry.
He was instrumental in the development of the SLAR tool, now widely used in the CANDU nuclear generating stations.
His speciality became fuel handling, and he was part of an international team that bought the first Romanian nuclear plant into production at Cernavoda in 1996.
Stan was a swim coach for many years, getting as far as Olympic trials with one of his swimmers in 1984, and he also enjoyed sailing and bird watching.
Stan was married to Jacqueline for 44 years and had 3 children (James, William and Elizabeth) and 6 grandchildren.
Obituary kindly supplied by Stanley's wife Jacqueline.
Jennifer (Jenny) Christophers (née Brown), Mathematics - 2018
Dr David Coy, Economics/Economic History
Pauline Crombie, Classics - February 2012
Renee De Wit, Pharmacy - 13 September 2010
Margaret Decker (née Vaughan), Physics
Roland Fairbrother, Economics - 10 September 2009
Pamela Free (née Rayment), Botany
Alan Frost, Mathematics - 21 February 2019
Roger Hall, Agricultural Sciences - 30 August 2017
Shirley Hardy (née Price), Economic & Social History - August 2008
Christopher Holt, Chemistry - 3 January 2023
When Chris left Nottingham University following his Chemistry degree course, he enrolled on the Teachers for East Africa scheme and went to Mkerere University in Kampala, Uganda, to do his PGCE, having always wanted to be a Chemistry Teacher.
On completion of his course there, he was sent to Mwanza, Tanzania, to teach for a year and then to Iringa for another year.
He greatly enjoyed these years.
He then returned to the UK in 1966 and sought and finally accepted a Chemistry Teacher position at the High School for Boys in Cambridge.
During his time there he, along with a colleague, introduced an Easter holiday experience for 6th formers on ex-working narrow boats on the canals.
This became a fixture for the rest of his teaching life as well as a personal interest.
In 1974 Cambridgeshire went to comprehensive schooling and he moved to Sawston Village College as Head of Science and teacher of chemistry.
He retired from teaching in 1993 and in 2004 was diagnosed with Parkinson's Disease.
Many past pupils still stayed in touch.
In retirement he attended the Lowestoft Boatbuilding College for a year and then pursued his love of working with wood at Thame College on a cabinet making course, during which he produced a clinker built wooden dingy and then some beautiful pieces of furniture.
He then discovered the University of the Third Age (U3A) in Cambridge and contributed both administratively and in providing science courses, in particular Science with a Smile for those who had not had a science education at school.
Whilst he continued to attend many courses of interest at U3AC almost until his death, the Parkinson's made it difficult for him to continue teaching.
We were married in 1970 and in 1974 took on the conversion of an Elizabethan circular dovecote in Haslingfield village.
Chris managed the whole project with professional workmen and our own labours whilst still teaching, moving in in 1977.
From all the cards and messages we have received he was a much loved and admired husband, father, grandfather, teacher and village member.
He died aged 80 at home on 3 January 2023,and many past pupils and teachers attended a Thanksgiving service for him.
He is survived by myself, Peter, Edward and Sarah and their families.
Obituary kindly provided by Christopher's wife, Pam
Donald Jones, Industrial Economics
Cedric Lea, Mathematics - 4 December 2022
Sir Henry Lee, Hon DLitt - 8 December 1993
Joyce Marshall (née Morley), Teaching - 21 October 2024
Philip Naughton QC, Law - July 2016
Peter Norton, Chemistry - 10 May 2022
It is with great sadness that we announce the death of Dr.
Peter Robert Norton on May 10th 2022 in Victoria Hospital, London, Ontario at the age of 79.
He is survived by his wife of 57 years, Gillian, his son Michael and daughter Kathy, his granddaughters Erica, Naomi, and Emma, and by his sister, Juliet.
Peter was born in a small village in war-time England to parents Robert and Ruth Norton.
He attended the University of Nottingham and obtained a B.Sc.
in 1963 and a PhD in Chemistry in 1966.
He and Gillian travelled to Ottawa in 1967 intending to spend just two years there to further his research career.
They both fell in love with life in Canada and lived in Ontario for the next 55 years.
His research career took him from the National Research Council, Ottawa, to McMaster University, Hamilton, to Chalk River Nuclear Laboratories and finally to Western University in London where he was a professor and research scientist from 1986 until his retirement in 2011.
His scientific career was important to him, and he took rightful pride in recognition bestowed on him by the likes of the Royal Society of Canada and the Canadian Institute of Chemistry.
His real passion, however, was mentoring students and young professionals and he drew great pleasure from watching their success.
In 1991 he and his wife bought an old wooden cottage at Bruce Beach near Kincardine on the waterfront of Lake Huron.
In 2000 they built a house on the site and he and Gillian retired there.
The Bruce Beach house was truly his happy place and he loved walking the beach and the wonderful views of the lake and sunsets from the deck, preferably with a drink in hand and surrounded by the company of family and friends.
Peter embraced Canadian winters and loved skiing and snowshoeing on the Niagara Escarpment in the Collingwood area.
When home he was a lover of classical music, especially chamber music.
His music collection evolved from vinyl, to CDs, to streaming, and he attended live concerts whenever possible.
He had a passion for sports, particularly soccer and F1 Racing, and he still followed the FA cup and UEFA Champions league from England.
He was intensely proud of his two children and their accomplishments and delighted in his 3 granddaughters who live in Edmonton and Vancouver.
He made the most out of every visit and followed their exploits.
Peter was cultured, intelligent, curious, and kind.
He was a great story-teller and raconteur and could entertain friends and strangers alike with humorous anecdotes and explanations of scientific phenomena.
He loved good food, good drink, and good conversation.
Astronomy was another passion of Peter’s, and sometimes an evening’s entertainment ended with stargazing over the lake through his telescope.
Peter was a big personality who made an impression on every room he entered.
He will be greatly missed.No service is planned at this time.
A celebration of his life may be planned for a later date.Arrangements entrusted to Cremation London and Middlesex, (519) 858-2467.
Online condolences shared at www.cremationlondon.com .
Obituary kindly supplied by Peter's wife Gillian Norton.
Russell Peakman, Chemistry/Physics - 21 September 2022
Michael Romeril, Chemistry - 9 April 2024
Michael Sargent, Botany - 22 April 2013
Valerie Sargent (née Howcroft), Botany - April 2023
Vivien Stchedroff (née Philip), Music - 10 September 2001
Dr Henry Swan, Animal Production - 11 August 2018
Michael Turner, Economic & Social History - 24 October 2017
Anne Watson (née Gatrell), French - 2016
Richard (Dick) Watson, Civil Engineering - 24 July 2017
Dr Alvan White, Chemistry – 17 August 2022
William (Russ) Barber, Classics - October 2014
Dr Stephanie Barnes, Pharmacy
Bruce Boyce, Agriculture/Horticulture - 1 January 1990
Vaila Cochrane (née Dalby), English - February 2021
Michael Coleman, Industrial Economics - 17 September 2011
Ann Comber, History - 20 January 2018
Baron Leslie Davis, Social Administration - 2009
George Darby, English - 1 February 2013
Carol Downer (née Blight) - 6 January 2011
Brian Dudley, Mechanical Engineering - 2007
Michael Gill, Law
Sheila Glover, History - 19 December 2011
Pamela Hall (née Cockburn), Pharmacy - 23 August 2015
John Holroyd, Civil Engineering - 27 November 2018
Dr David Hornby, Plant Pathology
Christine Lainé (née Leask), Geography - 18 November 2022
John Leary, History - 1 September 2023
Ann Marsden (née Wheeldon), Pharmacy - 6 August 2002
Christopher John Miller, Law
Vivien Newing, Classics - 4 September 2006
Dr Richard Pape, Chemistry - 31 December 2017
Dr Douglas Payne, Mathematics/Economics - 2017
Jennifer Payne (née Turner), Geography - 2015
Derek Pye, Pharmacy - 23 January 2016
Alison Smith (née Hughes), English - 15 November 2017
This vastly elegant and humorous woman died saying she had achieved all she wanted.
This included voluntary service overseas in Nigeria, a teaching career in a secondary school in Shropshire, a happy marriage and two daughters, retirement in Bristol and of course an honours degree in Nottingham.
She was a buddy to many in Alcoholics Anonymous.
Obituary kindly supplied by Valia Cochrane, English 1964
Barry Smith, Pharmacy - 8 August 2015
Andrew Stacey, Geology
George Stewart, Metallurgy - December 2015
Brian Tipper, Agriculture/Horticulture - 30 April 2010
Peter Waister, Agriculture/Horticulture - 2022
Barbara Walker (née Utting), Pharmacy - 2 April 2003
Peter Widdowson, English - 3 June 2009
Graham Askew, German - December 2016
Robert Batey, Geology - 25 March 2012
David Beagarie, Chemistry - 30 December 2015
His Honour Judge Richard Benson, Politics, - 25 August 2017
John Bentham, Chemistry - March 2024
Ian Briggs, Pharmacy - 20 February 2009
Richard Brignell, Economic & Social History - 8 August 1995
Michael Burgess, Chemical Engineering - 24 June 2018
Graham Butler, Electrical Engineering - August 2009
Gerald Butt, Metallurgy
Edward (Ted) Cooper, English - 17 December 2023
Richard Corkery, Civil Engineering - 23 March 1995
Sally Crooks, Chemistry - August 1990
Dr David Cullington, Civil Engineering
Elizabeth Davies, Mathematics
John Fiddy, Chemistry - 24 December 2017
Graham Fidler, Chemistry
Dr Howard Flack, Chemistry - 2 February 2017
John Gillett, Mechanical Engineering - April 2014
Dr Haleem ul Hasnain, Agriculture
Dr Haleem ul Hasnain’s contributions as a livestock production research specialist, visionary policy planner, and as a skillful administrator in national and international institutions will form a significant part of his legacy.
During his lifetime, he set up the Poultry Research Institute in Pakistan, served as Chairman of the Sindh Milk Board, Managing Director of Punjab, Livestock, Dairy and Poultry Development Board, Lahore, and Member-Animal Sciences at the Pakistan Agriculture Research Council.
His nearly 70-year professional career is difficult to summarize, but he has left behind a formidable legacy.
An extraordinary man of quiet and enormous will and commitment, he spent his life in service to his family, community, and country.
He will be greatly missed.
Obituary kindly supplied by Dr Saher Hasnain.
David Hall, Economics
Professor Samuel (Sam) Harris, Metallurgy - January 2023
Graham Howells, Spanish - 2012
Edward Hunter, German - July 2020
Richard Johnson, Pharmacy - 4 February 2018
David Jones, Law - 2012
Robert Kelcher, Metallurgy
John Lewthaite, Metallurgy - 2016
David (Dave) Lythall, Physics
Christopher L Martin, Law
Michael Mayo, Botany - 31 December 2008
Gillian Melling (née Francis), Pharmacy/Pharmaceutical Sciences
Keith Montague "Lord Amwell", Civil Engineering
Richard Morley, Electirical Engineering - 1 April 2023
Very Reverend John Henry Moses, History - 14 July 2024
After graduating, John trained as a teacher before becoming an Anglican priest, serving first in the Diocese of Coventry, then moving to Essex where he was Provost of Chelmsford Cathedral from 1982-96 and then Dean of St Paul's Cathedral, until his retirement to Southwell in 2006.
He always spoke warmly of his time at Nottingham and was happy to exchange memories of the Campus and Student Life.
Kindly supplied by Dora Winifred Simmonds and David John Simmonds.
For a full obituary please see Church Times
Robert Murray, Industrial Economics
Malcolm Palmer, French and German - 18 September 2007
David Pargeter, Industrial Economics - April 2010
Anne Peterson (née Wright), Pharmacy - 6 November 2016
Hugh Pratt, Geography - February 2024
Hugh Pratt passed away in February 2024.
He was a member of the Nottingham University Football team which won the AFA Senior Cup in 1963.
Hughie studied Geography from 1962-65 and was a member of Hugh Stewart Hall.
He leaves a wife, Jenny, and their two sons.
Obituary kindly supplied by Alan Williams, Industrial Economics (1961-64, Derby Hall)
Dr Michael Sanders, Chemistry - 12 March 2016
Geoffrey Scholefield, History - 1991
Margaret Scott MBE, Horticulture - March 2011
Eveline Seddon, Chemistry
Derek Summers, English - September 2018
Sir John Alan Thomas, Mechanical Engineering - 2017
Sheila Tippett, Chemistry - May 2009
William (Bill) Tippett, Chemistry - 25 September 2014
Online obituaries at the Guardian and at Ketso
Philip Watson, Economics - 9 October 2023
Obituary from the Isle of Wight Country Press
Alastair Wiles, Mechanical Engineering - August 2011
Duncan Willoughby, Economics - 2009
Rosamond Anne Wilson (née Garton), Zoology - December 2012
The Reverend Andrew Woodsford, Theology - 15 November 2019
Joy (Rosemary) Young (née McKintosh), Social Administration
James Abbott, Pharmacy
Simon Albury MBE, Sociology - 2 September 2024
Colin Bayley, Economics/Economic History - 23 May 2016
Katherine (Kathy) Beaver, Zoology - 20 October 2021
Katy graduated from University of Nottingham in 1966 with BSc (Hons) Zoology.
This was followed by two years of volunteering with VSO in Uganda and in 1969 she was awarded an MSc in Nematology from Imperial College, London.
Apart from a short time in Manchester in the late 1970s where she gained a Diploma in Adult Education, Katy spent the rest of her life living and working across the world - in Western Samoa and at the University of the South Pacific in Fiji.
In 1982, she settled in the Seychelles as a freelance biologist, researcher and environmental educator, where she subsequently married Lindsay Chong Seng, a Seychellois biologist.
They have two daughters, Karen and Zoe, and a grandson.
Katy was imbued with a love of nature and the environment, an activist for education and conservation, committed to helping others to understand and enjoy the natural world.
She was a peace and climate change activist, an author, editor, translator and illustrator, a talented artist and crafter, devoted wife and mother, loyal, thoughtful and loving friend, a brave woman in her own right, and just a lovely person.
RIP dear friend.
Obituary kindly supplied by Katherine's friends Pam Bishop (née Hudson), Jane Orchard (née Uttley) and Ruth Watts (née Gent).
Lesley Boardley (née Hooper), Social Administration - 30 June 2021
Robert Boucher, Mechanical Engineering - 25 March 2009
Michael Brett, Mathematics - January 2016
Neil Broady, Law
Douglas Brooks, Botany - 9 July 2009
Robert Bull, Physics
Dr Michael Carr, Agriculture/Horticulture
Carol Cribb (née Duckels), Social Administration - 15 January 2024
Mira Evans (née Casale) - 2024
We were freshers in Florence Nightingale Hall, but I only came to know Mira better when she, Jean Hooson and I played for the University netball team in our second and third years.
Mira often talked about her Italian roots and family in northern Italy where she visited every summer.
She made Italy sound a great place to visit and so Jean and I joined an NUS holiday to Rome and Termoli.
Then, the following year we bought return tickets to Naples.
Once in the country the ticket allowed us to stop off in Florence and we met up with Mira and her two sisters for a day's sightseeing.
After leaving University, Mira worked for Johnson Matthey in the research labs in Wembley, where she met her future husband, David.
She spent a year working in Milan before marrying and living in Hatch End then moving to Royston for her husband's promotion.
There she decided to take a Post Graduate course in Teaching and taught.at Duxford School.
Our contact had been indirect through Jean until they moved North to Endon in Staffordshire, I was living in Cheshire and we both had two children of similar age.
Reciprocal visits took place and the visits continued when they relocated back to Essex.
Latterly, we were drawn very much together owing to the health issues of Jean who was living in Chatham.
Sadly, Jean died in 2013.
Mira forwent career to support her daughter who had cystic fibrosis and parents as their health declined, but found time to be a School Governor, a Coordinator of Advertising for the Newport News team, Secretary of the local History group and Neighbourhood Watch.
Mira's health started to decline in 2016 and in 2018 was diagnosed with early stage dementia which slowly progessed over six years, cared for at home by a devoted husband and live-in Carers.
The loss of a true friend.
Obituary kindly supplied by Mira's friend, Alison Cusick (née Green) Botany/Zoology, 1966
John Fereday, Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences - 14 March 2011
Derek Fish, Mathematics - April 2006
John Fitton, Chemical Engineering
Christopher Nicholas Gilroy, Physics - 29 September 2013
Susan Hainsworth, Agriculture/Horticulture - February 2013
Jean Hooson, Zoology - 16 August 2013
Born in Halifax, Jean achieved a BSc Hons in Zoology at Nottingham University in 1966 then a PhD in Experimental Carcinogenesis at the Royal Veterinary College in London whilst working at BIBRA, Carshalton, Surrey where she became a Section Leader and Scientific Officer in aspects of Pathology and Toxicology, particularly in rodent carcinogens.
In 1983 she progresses to become Head of Pathology at Wyeth Research Ltd, Taplow until 1987.
Between 1987 and 1994 whilst working for Shell UK Sittingbourne Kent, she rose to Section Manager, responsible for genetic toxicology, clinical pathology, necropsy, histology and histopathology, managing a staff of 22 Scientists and Technicians and providing expert pathological opinion for the Shell Group worldwide and delivered critical support for specific product registration in Japan, Europe and USA.
Also, she strengthened academic links with her department and students and lectured on a variety of courses.
Jean joined ITR laboratories Canada in March 1995 as Director of Pathology and was initially responsible for managing their clinical pathology and the pathology departments as well as their pathologists' group.
A few years later, she became ITR’s Senior Vice President of Science leading the entire organisation's Scientific group until her retirement and return to England.
A tribute from ITR: "Jean was a living proof of how fine a person can be.
She was sincere, she was earnest, she was loyal.
She was a good boss to the people on her charge, a great colleague and also a good friend to many at ITR.
During her whole career at ITR, Jean worked with passion, integrity, great intellect and big heart.
With her death, all of ITR who knew her will miss a highly intelligent, vibrant individual with a rare friendliness and charm and personality.
We feel privileged to have known her We honour Jean Hooson by profoundly feeling and expressing our loss and also remembering her as an amazing person who has played a unique and special role at ITR laboratories Canada and in our lives." Obituary kindly supplied by Alison Cusick (née Green) Botany/Zoology (1966) and ITR
Peter Jackson, Physics - 18 September 2022
Robert Jones, Pharmacy - 16 November 2023
William Little, Agriculture/Horticulture - 13 May 2023
Geoffrey Lowe, Physics - 9 June 2008
Jennifer McNeill (née Lapage), English - 17 March 2021
Iris Pape, Pharmacy - 19 August 1995
Barrie Reynolds, Electrical Engineering - February 2024
Dr Michael Ryan, Geology - 25 October 2018
Michael Ryan (1941-2018) Died 25th October 2018 age 77 Graduated 1966 with PhD in Geology.
Became a lecturer at Portsmouth Polytechnic retiring in 2002.
As well as teaching his research areas were in Norway and Greenland working for the Geological Survey of Greenland.
Obituary kindly supplied by Michael's wife, Diana
Sheila Rogers, (née Follett), French - 30 May 2019
Peter Seago OBE LLM JP, Law - 18 May 2017
After graduating, Peter took a Masters degree and became a Lecturer in Law at Leicester University.
He moved to the Leeds University School of Law in 1973 and eventually became Head of Department there, before retiring in 2003.
Peter wrote and co-wrote various publications on Criminal Law and on the Magistracy.
He served for many years as a stipendiary Magistrate, and in 1998, he was awarded an OBE for services to the administration of justice.
Obituary kindly supplied by Lawrence C.
Samuels LLB (Law 1966)
Philip "Tim" Simpson, Civil Engineering - 2023
Philip Smith, Chemistry - 9 March 2007
Victor Roy Tallis, Industrial Economics - 2023
David (Dave) Tomsett, Pharmacy - 7 January 2021
We first met David nearly 60 years ago but still remember him with affection, despite meeting only occasionally since.
As fellow students enrolling on the University of Nottingham's BPharm degree course in 1963, we have been reflecting on the value of friendships made during these important formative years.
Some of us needed more forming than others, but David already seemed to be the finished article with an easy-going, amusing and charming manner that stayed with him throughout his life.
He brightened up many a dreary chemistry practical; having sailed through his own experiments he would saunter through the lab for a consoling chat with those who were still struggling or who had thrown the wrong solution down the sink.
David was born in Kent and moved to Higher Bebington in the Wirral where he was educated at Birkenhead School, which probably set him on the road to being “the smoothest guy in the class”.
On graduation he worked in London for Beecham and then Hofmann La Roche, joining the Pharmaceutical Society's Register in October 1967.
But it wasn't until he moved to Germany to work in data processing for Lufthansa that he realised his true niche lay in this newly developing industry.
Returning to the UK he joined Commercial Union in Caterham, then Zurich Assurance in Portsmouth before finally becoming data processing software manager at the latter’s head office in Zurich.
Fluent in German and French, he travelled extensively throughout Europe and the US.
Although David did not practise pharmacy for long, he maintained his Royal Pharmaceutical Society membership throughout most of his working life.
Our sympathies are with his wife, Daphne, and family.
Obituary kindly supplied by Sue Allen (née Hellawell), Adrienne de Mont (Varley), Pam Epps (Jones), Russell Greene, Pam Newton (Darroch), Geoffrey Shand, Michael Stern, Celia Timson (Castledine).
Geoffrey Tonge, Civil Engineering - October 2004
Andrew Ward, Civil Engineering
Patrick Washington, Mathematics/Economics - September 2016
Deanna Wilson (née Evagorou), French - 2023
John Ashley, Education
Peter Frank Bell, Economics - May 2023
Roger Brooks, Pharmacy - August 2011
Trevor Brown, Law - March 2023
Jennifer Butterfield (née Tooby), Theology - 2 April 2023
Rodney Lester Casey, Chemical Engineering - 25 August 2013
Andrew Coleman, Physics
Michael Coles, Chemistry - 4 November 2007
Zena Cooper (née Blance), Geography - March 2024
Terence Copley, Theology - 17 January 2011
Terence Cowham, Geography
Kenneth Doughty, Production Engineering - May 2012
Richard Fogg, Civil Engineering - 31 March 2019
Michael Hallam, Chemical Engineering - 10 February 2011
Simon Handelsman, Mining Engineering – 26 November 2021
Elizabeth Henwood (née Harding), Chemistry - March 2016
Arthur Holden, Chemical Engineering - 2 November 2011
Vaneeta Kilby (née Butler), Classics - 22 November 2018
It is with great sadness that I have to report the sudden death of Vaneeta Kilby née Butler who graduated in 1967 in Classics at Nottingham.
We met in 1963 in Florence Nightingale Hall (now FN) and along with several other first year undergraduates.
In FN we became good friends and have kept in contact ever since, regularly meeting up and attending Reunions at the University over the years.
Sadly, our numbers are declining.
Vaneeta entered teaching on graduation and after having children did a variety of jobs including tuition in a prison.
Her main contribution to University life was Scorer for the Cricket Club.
She loved the game and even accompanied them on their tours.
Many FN residents will recall her organising theatre trips to Nottingham Playhouse under John Neville.
Dress rehearsal night allowed students to obtain concessionary tickets as well as a group concession.
She remained a keen theatre goer and loved Gilbert and Sullivan, becoming a member of the Gilbert and Sullivan International Society and joining them on holidays around the world.
In fact, it was on one of these in The Netherlands that she passed away on 22nd November 2018.
Vaneeta never wasted an opportunity to be creative.
She always carried knitting or sewing, wrote articles for Parish magazines, played the organ in several churches including Bawtry Parish church for the past 30 years and taught many piano pupils.
Always a willing volunteer to assist wherever and whenever she could she could drive vast distances in a day.
As a pet lover she even had a spell breeding Cavies.
She leaves two sisters ,four children, two step daughters and seven grandchildren.
She kept a close and loving family with annual holidays house-sharing in Whitby and was a stalwart supporter of all of them.
Obituary kindly supplied by Alison Cusick (née Green) BSc 1966
Peter Lawrence, Law
Margaret Lingard (née Elsden), French and Slavonic - 21 January 2024
I am sorry to announce the death on 21st January 2024 of Margaret Lingard (née Elsden), Combined French and Slavonic studies, 1964-67.
She leaves Husband Robin, daughters Lucy and Bridget and four grandchildren.
Obituary kindly supplied by Margaret Pearson (née Longley), Slavonic studies 1964-67.
Joan Long (née Sweeting), German - July 2007
Geoffrey Marsh, Russian - December 2003
Derek Stanley Macauley, Chemical Engineering - 21 May 2013
Roger Martin, Education - 2006
Roger Minards, Law - 2018
David Morriss, French - 2015
Richard Newton, Law - 2021
Roger Peart, Geology
Graham Quinton, Industrial Economics with Psychology - 21 May 2011
Jill Reynolds (née Chamberlain), Social Administration - March 2024
Philip Robinson OBE, Industrial Economics - 2011
Angela Speight (née Spooner), Law - 2010
Anna St Leger-Lucas (née Whitehead), French
David Stepto, Metallurgy,
Amanda Stockley (née Baker), Mathematics - 10 October 2019
Peter John Tooley, Food Sciences - 2012
George Thompson, Metallurgy - December 2020
George was awarded his PhD in1970 which he gained at Nottingham.
His thesis work involved the study of precipitation of aluminium copper and aluminium lithium alloys.
He carried on as a post doc until 1973 when he joined Howson Algraphy.
In 1978 he joined the academic staff at the Corrosion and Protection Centre at UMIST.
He was promoted to Professor of Corrosion Science and Engineering in 1990.
George served as both Head of the Centre and Deputy Head of the School of Materials at the University of Manchester.
George retired in 2015, but carried on as Emeritus Professor until he was diagnosed with dementia in 2019.
Obituary kindly supplied by George's spouse Marilyn.
Reverend Paul Watts, Theology - 11 August 2019
Paul was born on 14th May 1943, and arrived at the University in 1963 to read Economics.
He changed course to Theology in 1965 and graduated in 1967.
Virtually all his working life was in Nottingham as an Anglican cleric, the director of Nottingham Council of Voluntary Service, and latterly as a senior manager in the City of Nottingham Education department.
He married Ruth (Gent - Geography 1963-66) in 1968.
They had two sons, Richard and Simon, and four grandsons.
He was diagnosed with Parkinson's in 2001 and became chair of the Nottingham Parkinson's group until ill health made that role impossible.
Obituary kindly supplied by Ruth Watts (née Gent), Geography 1966
Professor Sir Ian Wilmut, Agriculture/Horticulture - 10 September 2023
Please see obituary published by The University of Nottingham
Peter Winstanley, Geography
Jonathan Young, Mechanical Engineering - 1 January 2007
Dr David Anderson, Pharmacy - 24 April 2025
Dr David John Anderson, BPharm, PhD FRPharms, MCPP passed away on 24th April 2025 following a fight with prostate cancer.
He was a graduate of Nottingham University and was registered with the Pharmaceutical Society on 3rd October 1972.
He became part of the pharmaceutical team at Nottingham General Hospital, trialling the first 24 hour hospital on call service.
From there he worked as chief pharmacist at St Luke's Hospital in Guildford and then, over the years, he was at St Mary's Paddington, The Middlesex Hospital and Hammersmith Hospital.
He moved out of London to St Peter's Hospital in Chertsey.
He spent his last 17 working years at the Gilbert Baine Hospital in Lerwick, Shetland.
His retirement was filled with his many and varied interests, even becoming a registered Shetland tour Guide.
He was involved in many pharmaceutical bodies including being a trustee of the UK Clinical Pharmaceutical Association and a founder member of the College of Pharmacy Practice (membership number 1).
Pharmacy was in his blood and up to his final weeks he was discussing his treatment and drug doses with the GP.
He will be missed by the pharmaceutical community.
Obituary for the Pharmaceutical Society, kindly supplied by Anne, David's daughter-in-law
Keeling Anthony, Electrical Engineering - May 2006
Roger Barker, Economics - 2004
Geoffrey Beevers, History - August 2015
David Begley, Zoology - 6 July 2023
Professor Christine (Chris) Bellamy (née Turner), Politics - May 2017
Please see obituary published by The Academy of Social Sciences
John Bishop, Chemistry/Psychology - 2008
Michael Blanks, Pharmacy - January 2017
Derek Bowler, Chemistry - 21 November 2012
Richard Bristow, English - June 2017
Timothy (Tim) Bryan, Mining Engineering - 18 October 2023
Michael J Burton, Physics - May 2014
Charnchai Charuvastr, Electrical Engineering - 11 February 2011
Ronald Clowes, Economics
Colin Cooke, Chemistry - 22 April 2024
Colin Cooke, apart from 2 years doing research at Reading University, spent his whole career working for the Health and Safety Executive, first in London and then in Bottle from 1985 to 2012.
He worked on the Noxious Substances notification scheme for several years.
In retirement he was involved with Formby Civic Society and the Shyira Trust Rwanda charity linked to St.
Luke's Church in Formby.
He managed to continue with these right up to his final week in spite of huge mobility challenges.
Obituary kindly supplied by his wife Margaret Cooke.
Zena Cooper (née Blance), Education - March 2024
Malcolm Cowen, Mathematics
Rosemary Davies (née Greenwood), English - 3 January 2010
Richard Edwards, Philosophy - 26 December 2018
Gillian Gates (née Alexander), Theology - March 2008
Timothy Gilbert, Psychology
John Francis Glazier, Environmental Physics - 23 October 2012
Frank Golightly, Metallurgy - 2010
Gillian Green (née Waller), Agriculture/Horticulture - 23 July 2019
John Green, Chemistry - 15 October 2014
Jacqueline Hague, Politics - 2023
Allan Hall, Mining Engineering - 14 November 2010
Frederick Harper, Agriculture
Margaret Hayter (née Swallow), Chemistry - 22 January 2010
Professor Alan Hooper, Chemistry - 23 March 2020
Janet Jenkins , Sociology - 2020
Roy Jessop, Politics - September 2008
Hilary Jones (née Smith), History - 7 August 2022
Hilary died suddenly 7 August 2022 aged 75.
She was born and brought up in Hampstead, attending Camden School for Girls.
After graduating she eventually obtained a post at the Public Record Office, now the National Archives.
She retired from there in 2006.
She was married to David (maths 1967) for almost 52 years, had 2 children, Andrew and Rachel and settled in Watford and Bushey for her married life.
Obituary kindly supplied by Hilary's huband David Jones.
Patrick Keilthy, Economic and Social History - February 2017
David Law, Economics/Social History
Roger Lintonbon, Chemistry - July 2011
Robert Littlewood, Agriculture - 23 August 2023
David Lougher, Chemistry
David Mallison, Mining Engineering - 27 August 2010
Hugh Martin, Mechanical Engineering - 2010
David McWilliam, Mechanical Engineering - 7 November 2015
Nigel Pearson, Mining Engineering - December 2017
Alan Ritchie, Electrical Engineering - 2021
Richard Shorter, Physics - 9 May 2021
It is with great sadness that the family of Richard James Shorter B.Sc.
C.Eng M.I.Mech.E A.C.M.A C.G.M.A announces he passed away peacefully on May 9th 2021, at the age of 74 at Basildon Hospital surrounded by his family, after his aortic aneurysm ruptured.
Born 11 April, 1947 in Rochford; married 1974; divorced 1994; survived by 3 children – Sarah an accountant, Annabell a network and security engineer, Peter a commercial pilot, 4 grandchildren, 2 step-grandchildren, no dog but 3 fish.
Richard graduated from Nottingham University in 1968 with a B.Sc.
(Hons Physics, 2.1) and worked primarily as an engineer for 35 years for Ford Motor Company Ltd.
Based almost entirely at the Research and Engineering Centre, Dunton where he was a specialist in the design of off-board diagnostics systems for use in vehicle repair workshops, and combustion engines.
He presented the 1987-88 IEE Faraday Lecture Tour, co-authored several papers and presented lectures on diagnostic systems.
He also represented Ford at an EU commission anti-competitive investigation.
He had a 10 year break into Finance, in his own words "1975 Truck Pricing Analyst.
This was the only job I had that was not based at Dunton.
It involved writing pricing papers for all European markets during a time of high inflation and rapid price movements and was extremely boring.
My first management position was Profit Co-ordinator for the 1981 Erika program (the first FWD Escort).
This involved working with Product Planning, Marketing, Cost Analysis (the interface to product engineering), Investment Analysis (the interface to manufacturing), and Central Finance.
During this time the first desktop computers (Apple lie) and spread sheet (VisiCalc) arrived and I quickly realised their significance.
Everybody else used a spreadsheet like a typewriter and created a new one for each application, with much entering of data and formulae followed by checking and correction of errors.
I had done some programming in Algol at university and realised that it was possible to program a generic spreadsheet for payback and TARR calculations that only required a small amount of data to be entered.
Then followed a career change to Computer Systems in 1983.
Initially, I was on loan from Finance to Systems for one year but stayed much longer."
In fact, he never went back.
During his stay in hospital I read him a book he had bought about Ford and it became apparent he really had enjoyed a career during its design and engineering glory days.
Professionally, Richard had a very rare talent being an engineer and a qualified accountant, a very rare combination of skills which stood him in good stead in his professional life.
He established a reputation for being able to solve unusual problems and continued this well into retirement fixing amongst other things his boat, friend’s cars, boilers and the endless cheap toys that couldn’t stand up to his grandchildren’s play.
Needless to say; his friends and colleagues had nothing but respect for Richard's intellect but also his wit.
Many recall the times he had them crying with laughter, often unintentional on his part.
Richard was a town councillor for Rayleigh, Essex where he lived for almost 50 years in the same house.
He was an auditor for 10 churches and 1 Scout group accounts for over 30 years, donating his fees back to his own local church.
His interests included first and foremost his boat, having owned sailing boats for 15 years since 1970 and motorboats since then.
He did all his own maintenance and repairs and was frequently contacted by other boat owners for advice.
He also enjoyed latest trends in fireworks and what was going on in the pyrotechnic industry, ballroom dancing, camping and teaching Scouts to sail, garden birds, growing cucumbers, tomatoes and strawberries, steam trains and the Vulcan restoration project.
His passion for science never left him and he continued to be well read and forever learning.
He was a lifelong supporter of his university and visited frequently.
He lived his life to the end exactly as he wanted it.
Whilst his sudden loss is felt widespread throughout his community, family and friends, we take a small comfort that he had been so active and never experienced the decline he was convinced would come (he was a big supporter of Alzheimers research).
We lowered his flag to half-mast (probably the only home In Rayleigh to have one!) and he will be going to ground with the ensign from his boat.
Obituary kindly supplied by Richard's daughter Sarah Downing.
Diana Stagg (née Adkins), Chemistry - 9 June 2006
John Turner, Medieval and Modern History - 2022
Robert Upton, Pharmacy - July 2023
Mary Vick (née Corben), Botany - 30 March 2005
Elaine Ward (née Cliffe), Theology - March 2018
Donald Wright, Economic and Social History
Rodney Banks, Mechanical Engineering - August 2018
Hilary Barker (née Kitcat), Zoology - 26 April 2023
Hilary Barker was an unstoppable force with a beaming smile and infectious laugh that drew people towards her.
Full of talents, generosity and humour with a tenacious knack of persuasion, she shared her knowledge and skills with anyone who showed an interest.
Brought up in London suburbs, she went to Nottingham University and studied zoology during the swinging 60's followed by a masters in conservation at University College London where she joined many societies with enthusiasm.
By the late 60's she had met and married her soul mate Bernard Barker who had been an RAF aircraft engineer with a passion for the outdoors and ornithology.
Together as employees of the British Trust for Conservation Volunteers they were sent to Scotland to start up a northern office at 70 main street Doune known as the Conservation Corps..
A busy place with a massive room at the rear, known as 'the hangar' (previously Doune Garage) filled with tools and land rovers.
Armed with typewriters and enthusiasm, they orchestrated a team of volunteers with earnest and well informed debates about all aspects of wildlife and ecology.
The last 11 years of Hilary's life were plagued with illness and accidents but her sunny nature kept her going.
After Bernard died a few years ago, she found it hard to paint for some time, but the skill which she had developed, while doing everything else, came back, and we are left with a legacy of impressive highland cow paintings that have even been spotted at Edinburgh Airport, not to mention worldwide.
Obituary kindly provided by John Burdett.
Christine Bergan (née Walker), Classics - 26 November 2010
Clive Blackaby, Chemistry - June 2023
Jean Bostock (née King), Geography - 7 September 2019
Marion Cavalot (née Belton), Mathematics/Economics - 8 October 2020
Marion Ann Cavalot née Belton of Blackpool passed away on Thursday 8th October 2020.
She had lived independently, was active in her families lives and in her community, and had always enjoyed reasonable health other than the usual wear and tear of getting older.
In early summer 2020, she experienced some unusual health issues and was diagnosed in August with an incurable brain tumour.
She had surgery in early September to reduce the impact of the tumour and give her the possibility of a few more months of quality life, but she did not respond well to the operation and her health deteriorated rapidly in the days and weeks following this.
Marion died peacefully in hospital, her family were fortunate to be able to see her every day and for the final few days were able to spend much more time with her when she was moved to a side room.
She had just turned 73 years old and repeatedly said “I have had 72 good years”.
Obituary kindly provided by daughter Jo.
Sylvia Cowling (née Chapman), Slavonic Studies - 11 November 2022
Norma Cramp (née Hartle), Mathematics/Physics - 2018
Alan David, Pharmacy - 2023
Margaret Dutton, Theology - 20 September 2021
Ruth Ford (née Clark), Theology - 2008
Peter William Freeman, Chemistry - 13 May 2010
Peter has a BSc in Chemistry and a PhD and since 1974 has lived in Australia where he leaves a widow and two sons.
The above obituary was kindly supplied by Peter's sister.
Nicholas B Forrest, Chemistry - January 2014
John Hollick Frisby, Education - 2013
Stephen Gentry, Chemistry - 10 March 2006
Quentin Gillard, Geography - 15 November 2022
Janet Holmes (née Bowler), French
Margaret Johns (née Perry), English and American Studies - 6 December 2018
Margaret passed away on 6th December 2018 after a short illness.
During her first year at Nottingham, Margaret was resident in 'The Oaks' which was then an annexe of Florence Boot Hall.
Following graduation Margaret gained a PGCE and had a career as a teacher.
Margaret kept in touch throughout her life with two other residents of Oaks, at the time, Lynn Boothman, Sociology 1969 and Tanya Robins (née Richings), Politics 1969.
Obituary kindly supplied by Tanya Robins
Carole Johnson, Politics - November 2011
Kevin Jones, Slavonic Studies
Edward Kemsley, Civil Engineering
Brian Kerry, Agriculture/Horticulture - 2013
Adrian Lee, Industrial Economics - January 2011
Brian Leggott, Mining Engineering - 13 February 2020
Graham Littler, Mathematics Education - 1 January 2009
John Lodge, Electrical Engineering - 15 April 2011
Dr Maurice Marshall, Chemistry - 28 April 2025
Dr Pantelija Nikolić, Physics - 17 July 2018
Martin Openshaw, Metallurgy - 20 October 2010
Elizabeth Palmer, Education - March 2007
Martin Plant, Sociology - 16 March 2010
Andrew Pyle, Electrical Engineering - 21 June 2012
Elizabeth Rorison, Music - 24 June 2011
Pamela Salisbury, Law/Sociology - 2017
Jeremy Scudamore, Geography - 29 August 2011
Hilary Smith (née Bluck), Pharmacy - 25 November 2011
Peter Stanley, Chemistry – 14 February 2022
Paul Wickham, Law - 26 May 2019
Dr Anthony Wildig, Mining Engineering - 2023
Frederick Ashley, Mining Engineering
Roy Ashton, Law - May 2007
Geoffrey Baguley, History - 12 December 2018
James Baker, Chemistry - 3 May 2010
George Braisby, Mathematics/Physics - 9 February 2008
Michael Brodie, Chemistry - 1 April 2011
Roger Burton, Physics - 30 January 2013
Anthony Chapman, Electrical Engineering - 10 September 2009
James Chilton, Pharmacy - 2012
Professor John Cole, Geography with Spanish - 1 April 2020
John Peter Cole, Emeritus Professor of Human and Regional Geography at the University of Nottingham, passed away on 1 April at the family home in Bramcote Hills, Nottingham at the age of 91.
He was born in Sydney, Australia on 9 December 1928 and spent his early years there and in the south of France before his parents returned to live in Orpington, Kent.
He attended Bromley Grammar School before obtaining a scholarship to the University of Nottingham to study Geography with Spanish, obtaining a BA and an MA.
Following a year at the University of Pavia in Italy on a British Council scholarship, he returned to the University of Nottingham in 1951 as a demonstrator in the Department of Geography and then carried out his National Service in the Royal Navy, training as a Russian language interpreter and retiring as a lieutenant commander in 1954.
After a year working in Peru at the National Office for Planning and Urban affairs he lectured at the University of Reading for one year before resuming his academic career at Nottingham, where he obtained his PhD and was also awarded a D.Litt (Doctor of Letters) in 1990 in recognition of his extensive range of publications.
He taught until his retirement in 1994.
Professor Cole’s academic work and research reflected his language skills and his passion for travel.
In 1952 he married Isabel Urrunaga, from Peru, and developed a strong interest in Latin American geography, although he also specialised in the geography of the Soviet Union through his advanced knowledge of Russian.
He was also extremely active in quantitative methods in geography and was largely responsible for the introduction of computing into the subject.
During later years he focused more on global development issues and the European Union.
His publications include the best-selling Geography of World Affairs (1959-1983), Geography of the USSR (1961 with F.
C.
German), Italy (1964), Latin America (1965 and 1975) and Quantitative Geography (1968 with C.
A.
M..
King).
He also published school textbooks, New Ways in Geography (1963 to 1982 with N.
J.
Beynon), Peru 1940-2000: Performance and Prospects (1978 with P.
Mather), as well as the Development Gap (1981) and the Geography of the European Union (1993 and 1997 with F.
Cole).
He worked abroad as a visiting lecturer at the Universities of Washington, Columbia, Mexico, Valparaiso, Nanjing and Beijing.
Following his retirement he continued to write and to travel extensively with his wife Isabel.
He was an accomplished artist, with many pen and ink drawings and oil paintings of places he visited, a dedicated father to his two sons Francis and Richard, and a doting grandfather to his eleven grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
Following the death of Isabel he married Karen de Bres who was his faithful companion in Nottingham until he passed away peacefully at home.
Obituary kindly supplied by John's son, Francis
George Cooley, Chemistry - 23 April 2006
Peter Dodson, French - 13th December 2010
Kenneth Foster, English - 4 June 2010
Patricia Glover (née Entwistle), Combined Studies – 1 February 2022
Ronald Goodwin, Civil Engineering - May 2011
Hilary Granger (née Wiltshire), English - 1 October 2008
Roger Holt, Agriculture - 18 September 2009
Tamara Hughes (née Jones), Pharmacy - 30 December 2017
Desmond Howlett, Physics - 17 December 2009
Albert Kendrick, Physics - 10 May 2008
Mavis Kennedy (née McAlister), French - November 2016
Thomas Lewis, Law
Alistair Limpitlaw, Engineering - 10 December 2007
Beryl Jackson (née Jones), Pharmacy - 5 October 2019
Kenneth Oswald Samples, Pharmacy - May 2013
Phyllis Samples (née Johnson), Pharmacy - 22 May 2022
Norman Shelley, Mechanical Engineering
Gwyneth Shepherd, English - 13 February 2012
Alfred Simms, Mathematics - 30 November 2011
Dr Anthony (Tony) Simpson, Physics
I am writing to inform you that sadly my father who studied at the university in the 1950's has passed away.
The father of one of his school friends made a lot of money by inventing two way stretch bras and as a consequence had a car (almost unheard of at the time).
He gave dad a lift one evening and had to stop off en route at his lab.
Dad was so impressed by the lab that he asked the man what dad had he to do to get there; the man said ‘get your school certificate’ so dad decided to take some interest ‘all this rubbish they (teachers) were chatting about’.
Prior to this, dad’s father had spoken with the housemaster, who suggested ‘forestry, as there was plenty of fresh air and not much thought required’.
When dad was 16 his father said ‘that there was as much chance of Tony passing the exam (School certificate) as the Labour party had of getting into power’ both succeeded in 1945.
As he had done so well in Chemistry, as a result of his passion for explosives, he was put down for a Chemistry course at Nottingham but persuaded his Professor (Bates) to let him to change his preferred choice of Physics.
Whilst at University he made a television set at home, but as the only transmitter was in London, he needed to put an aerial on the roof - very nearly falling off in the process.
The component parts were spread around the bedroom including a 2000 volt supply to the cathode ray tube.
The first time it worked properly, the picture showed the Oxford Cambridge boat race with one boat nearly sinking.
As it could only receive picture it had to be re-tuned to find out who nearly sank.
He went on to complete a PhD at Nottingham in 1954 entitled ‘The thermal properties of magnetic materials’.
He described it as a very esoteric with a slight self-reproach, reinforcing the fact that he has always thought of himself as a practical man.
After completing his PhD, it was either find a research post or join the army.
He went to work as a research scientist for Plessy at Caswell in Towcester, Northamptonshire.
Mum worked in the factory painting colour codes on components, while her sister worked on the switchboard.
It was at Plessy where he famously saved time by liquidizing all the component parts of his breakfast before consuming them with inevitable outcome.
He worked there for 13 years until overworking led to a detached retina.
The surgeon, who spot-welded it back with a laser, advised getting a less stressful job.
Whilst in the Eye Hospital, Dad saw an advert in the New Scientist magazine for a job in the new Materials Science Department based at Sussex University.
Dad always hated being referred to as an academic, indeed, at his office at Sussex University he used to keep a copy of the dictionary definition of academic - ‘Abstract Un-practical theoretical and cold’ - to remind people that he didn’t want to be seen as such.
Obituary kindly supplied by Leigh Simpson
Richard Srawley, Law - 21 March 2022
Peter Stevens, English - 14 May 2009
Leonard Sutton, Chemistry - 6 March 2009
William John Symes, Civil Engineering - 14 July 2013
Norman Thompson, Civil Engineering - 2012
Dr Raymond Thompson CBE, Chemistry - 23 March 2018
Geoffrey Walmsley, Electrical Engineering - February 2010
Derek Warsop, History - 2 August 2010
Rachel White (née Pumphrey), Botany and Zoology - 11 November 2012
Stuart Whitton, Agriculture/Horticulture - 2005
Alan Wilson, Botany - 19 November 2010
Peter Wingham, Engineering - 7 March 2011
Geoffrey Yarlott, Grouped Subjects - 25 November 2009
Betty Aitken (née Hooper), English
Peter Arculus, Chemistry - 2015
Dick Basford, French - 1 April 2019
Philip Bell, Chemistry/Geology - 13 April 2002
Margaret Bloumfield, Chemistry - April 2014
Terence Blumfield, Chemistry - 9 May 2011
Peter Bostock, English - February 2016
Sylvia Branfield, Mathematics - 18 May 2023
Roger Cady, Geography/Economic Social History - March 2024
Bernard Channing, Mathematics
David Montgomery Clifford, Industrial Administration - 15 April 2013
Gwendolen Dale (née Heselton), Physics/Mathematics - 26 January 2009
Richard Dewing, Agriculture - 21 October 2020
Christine Eberlin (née Trotman), Chemistry
Ken Everett, Chemistry - 3 March 2014
Cedric Fermidge, Chemistry - 19 January 2007
Doreen (Alfreda) Ford (née Page), Latin - 1 October 2006
Dr (Raymond) Eric Ford, Chemistry - November 2016
Michael Fox, Agriculture/Horticulture – 20 August 2022
Michael Garrety, English - 21 December 2009
Henry David Godson - February 2013
Dennis Guereca, Applied Social Science - 2 March 2007
Margaret Haddon (née Maycock), Chemistry - 13 November 2020
Margaret Maycock was the first member of her family to stay at school beyond the age of 14 and against all the odds she went to Nottingham University, graduating with B.Sc (Hons) in Chemistry in 1951.
She was one of only three girls in her year studying Chemistry, and one of the first students to gain a University of Nottingham degree instead of an external London degree.
Margaret chose Nottingham University because her boyfriend, Gordon Haddon, had gone up the year before.
He was very active in the University Rifle club and Territorial Army shooting teams under the famous Colonel Shaw and Dad talked mum into having a go.
In 1950 she was Women’s Team Captain, she shot at Bisley, and one of the proudest achievements of her life was being the first woman ever to be selected for a Territorial Army rifle Team.
Mum always valued education as the route to a better life.
She became a teacher herself and as Head of the Chemistry Department at Northampton High School for Girls she inspired many girls to aspire to previously unimagined heights, and did all she could to help them to reach their potential.
Obituary kindly supplied by Margaret's daughter, Christina.
John Hagyard, Social Administration - 18 June 2010
John Hawkins, Botany
Eric Henshaw, Electrical Engineering - 31 January 2011
George Hern, Agriculture/Horticulture - 15 December 2011
Michael Holmes, Chemistry
Alan Holvey, Grouped Subjects - 13 February 2019
Charles Horrell MBE, Agriculture
E Ruth Humphrey (née Whiteley), Geography - 9 October 2018
It is with great sadness that Robin Humphrey has to let you all know that dear Mum, Ruth, passed away on Tuesday 9th October, 2018.
Mum is and always will be very sadly missed.
She has not gone, she is not departed, she is merely “in the garden”, digging and weeding, pruning and clipping.
In recent years, Mum had moved from the family home in central Solihull we’d lived in since moving from Wallasey in 1968.
She took up residence in a ‘sheltered living’ home and really enjoyed the company of many of the other residents.
She adapted so well to her new life there.
Mum had so many varied pursuits in life, from gardening and horticulture, to painting, to travel, to history … anything of interest in fact.
Mum has led a hugely varied life, from her birth in Stockport, Cheshire, to growing up in Derbyshire as a little girl, from Girl Guides (the first Queen’s Guide in the UK) to an equal to my father as principal of Egbado College in Illaro, Nigeria, from mother to 4 children, to teacher in Solihull in 3 different and varied schools, and from retiree enjoying pottering in her garden to running the Olton Station plant volunteers group, from traveller of the World (where had she not visited?) to simply Mum, listening to her favourite Radio 4 programmes or Classic FM, and nipping to her Wednesday St Helens lunch club – Mum will always be with us, always.
Mum’s time at Nottingham University was such a central part of her life.
She met Colin, her husband to be and also John Hewes, who became my father’s best man in 1952 when Mum and Dad married.
Uncle John as we called him then married Peggy in 1956 and all four of them remained such good friends throughout their lives.
Ruth Humphrey also kept in touch with many other friends from her days at Nottingham where she studied geography.
Obituary kindly supplied by Ruth's son, Robin
His Majesty Sultan Tuanku Ja'afar, Law - 27 December 2008
William Jackson, English/French - 13 November 2007
George Kelsey, Chemistry - 12 July 2013
William Kent, Agriculture/Horticulture - 13 November 2004
John Chrysostom Kiwanuka - 12 June 2010
Robert Ikin Leather, Botany - 28 November 2007
During the war, Robert served in the Royal Marines at the D-Day landings and in the Far East.
After graduation he worked in Her Majesty's Colonial Service and with the United Nations as a Plant Pathologist and Coconut Agronomist in Ghana, Jamaica, Hong King, Fiji, Trinidad and Western Samoa.
Robert leaves his wife, June, (Botany 1951), five adult children and fifteen grandchildren.
Obituary kindly supplied by Robert's wife, June
Anthony Light, Geography - 7 February 2021
Dr Eric Light - French and German - 3 December 2020
Joseph Mason, Geology - 14 January 2021
Beryl Moore (née Wheatman), Education - November 2014
Elizabeth Newsom (née Palmer), Psychology - 6 February 2014
Alan G Norman OBE, Civil Engineering - February 2014
My father Alan Norman was a student at Nottingham University 1948-1951.
BSc Civil Engineering.
He died last year aged 90.
After serving with The Hampshire Regiment (he was in the first wave of landings on D-Day where he was wounded several times) he went to Nottingham University as a mature student, his career went from Stanton and Staverley, (Notts) to Redland Pipes (Surrey) from 1968, where he became Technical Director.
After Lafarge took over Redland, he worked for The British Pre-cast Concrete Federation in Leicester.
A life spent in concrete (mostly pipes and lighting columns).
As my brother commented in his eulogy "at one time you were probably standing over or under something he had designed"!
He met my mother when he was in Derby Royal infirmary recovering after the D-Day landings, she is still alive and well, and the living room of her house is still dominated by the print of Nottingham University.
Obituary kindly supplied by Alan’s son, Andrew.
Professor Peter Pell OBE, Civil Engineering - 13 December 2016
Peter Seward Pell, Emeritus Professor of Civil Engineering at the University of Nottingham died aged 93 on 13th December 2016.
Peter Pell’s life was devoted to the University and his family, following military service during World War 2 in the Royal Engineers and a short period as a consulting engineer.
He established an international reputation for his pioneering experimental research into the fatigue strength of bituminous materials for road construction, which started in 1954, and extended his interests into new design methods for roads.
Peter Pell was essentially a Nottingham man.
He was born in the County, the son of Joseph and Philippa Pell on 27th November 1923.
Although he went to Sutton Valence School in Kent he returned to Nottingham as an undergraduate in 1947 after his war service as a Major in the Royal Engineers.
He was amongst the first tranche of graduates awarded Nottingham degrees in 1951, following granting of the University’s charter in 1948.
After graduation, Pell joined the consulting firm of Oscar Faber and Partners as a structural engineer before returning to the University in 1954 to begin research on the fatigue strength of bituminous materials, working on a contract awarded by Shell.
He was appointed as a lecturer in 1956 and was successively promoted to Senior Lecturer in 1962, Reader in 1966 and to a Chair in 1970.
In 1980, he was appointed to a four year term as a Pro-Vice-Chancellor and, in 1982, also took on the task of leading his department following the retirement of Professor Rex Coates.
Pell was appointed as Dean of Engineering in 1984 for a three year term and he retired in 1989 after 35 years’ service to the University.
He was awarded an OBE in the 1990 New Year’s Honours list for services to higher education.
His marriage to Janet Huntley on 21st August 1948 was a long and happy one lasting 67 years.
She predeceased him by just 10 months.
They were very much a team and provided frequent, generous and enjoyable hospitality to colleagues and visitors alike at their home overlooking the Trent valley.
He is succeeded by two sons, Robert and Charles, seven grandchildren and four great grandchildren.
Obituary kindly supplied by Professor Stephen Brown.
Pamela Pullen (née Gray), Grouped Subjects
Clere Richardson (née Baker), Zoology - October 2010
(Eileen) Mabel Roberts (née Alexander), Physics - 3 September 2021
After leaving University, Eileen worked in the development laboratories at Sir W G Armstrong Whitworth Aircraft in Whitley, Coventry, then in 1954 moved to Elliott Bros (London) Ltd at Borehamwood, Herts, where she worked on the development of microwave instruments until her marriage in February 1959 to another Nottingham graduate that she had met at Elliot’s – Bernard Roberts.
She moved to Newport to be with Bernard and worked at STC for a while before they started a family.
After the death of Bernard in an airplane crash in 1969 she moved to Stonehouse, in Gloucestershire in 1973, and taught part-time at the local Technical College while bringing up her son and looking after garden.
In 1989 she moved to Banbury, Oxon, and continued to do a little voluntary and paid teaching at the College of Further Education until 1997.
Mum continued to be active, travelling both locally and internationally, taking great delight in visiting new places, running the local neighbourhood watch and tracing the family history getting all the way back to 1672.
When she wasn’t doing this she could be found redesigning and pottering in her garden, building compost heaps and greenhouses.
In 2014 she moved to Cosby in Leicestershire to be closer to her son, daughter-in-law and grandchildren.
She passed away quietly in her sleep on 3rd Sept 2021.
Obituary kindly supplied by Eileen's son Neil Roberts.
Alan Rodway, English - 30 May 2008
Ernest Salisbury, French - 16 January 2014
Dr Peter Salter, Agriculture/Horticulture
Alan H Shaw, French - 11 February 2008
Graham Shepherd, Chemistry/Physics - February 2012
Audrey Sillis (née James), French
Ronald Slater, History/Economics - 31 December 2009
Gracie Mary Stubbs (née Daniel), History - 2017
Sheelah Symes MBE (née Williams), Social Administration - April 2016
Alfred Tardif, Physics
John Topliss, Chemistry - 19 March 2021
For a full obituary please see the Nie Funeral Homes website .
Philip Vincent, Classics
Dr Roy Wade DSc, Chemistry - 10 May 2019
Roger Wallace, Agriculture/Horticulture - 14 June 2010
William Weston, Agriculture/Horticulture - 2021
Gerald White, Agriculture/Horticulture - February 2006
Brian Wills, Pharmacy/Pharmaceutical Science
Richard Wiseman, Geography - 19 December 2020
John Allen, Music/French - January 2016
Jean Anderson (née Brown), English - 2016
Kenneth Anderson, Economics/Economic History - 21 October 2017
Peter Andrews, Chemistry – April 2022
Peter graduated from Nottingham with a BSc in Chemistry in 1952 and qualified as a teacher in London.
He went on to receive a MA and PhD in Education from the University of London before becoming Headmaster of Dronfield Henry Fanshaw School in 1964.
He held several positions as Chair of examination boards in the East Midlands and was for a time Chairman of the Standing Conference of Examination Boards and President of the Secondary Heads Association.
He was an Adviser to the Parliamentary Select Committee for Education, Science and the Arts and was appointed C.B.E for Services to Education in the Queen’s Birthday Honours list of 1983.
His Christian faith was central to his life: he was a Methodist Local Preacher from 1954 until he was over 90.
As a dedicated Biblical Scholar, he taught courses and shared his knowledge with diverse groups of people, keen to gain a more thorough understanding of Biblical teaching.
He met Kathryn, his wife, at Nottingham University (she was a Mathematics graduate).
She predeceased him in 2015.
They are survived by their three children; Elisabeth, Stephen and Deborah; five grandchildren and seven great grandchildren.
Obituary kindly supplied by Peter's daughters, Elisabeth Stanners and Deborah Andrews.
John Asquith, Chemistry/Physics – 1 March 2022
Hazel Atkinson (née Gullis), Mathematics/Physics - 13 May 2017
John Avison, Agriculture/Horticulture - December 2015
Annie Bows (née Lloyd), Spanish/French
Professor Horace Barker, Mathematics - 19 February 2024
Professor Horace Anthony Barker (DOB 24/3/1931) passed away on 19/2/2024.He had an illustrious career spanning many decades, most recently at Swansea University.
He is survived by his spouse, Jennifer Barker.
Obituary kindly supplied by Horace's spouse, Jennifer.
David J Bremner, Chemistry - October 2016
Anthony (Tony) Brooks, Agriculture/Horticulture - 24 July 2006
John Osborne Brown, Law - July 2013
Reginald Busby, Chemistry - 23 August 2023
Marilyn Carter (née Edwards), English
Dr Enis S.
Catanach-Holmes (née Stokes), Botany - 3 June 2018
Brian Clark, Social Administration - 30 January 2010
(Olive) Ruth Clark (née Douglas), English - 25 June 2012
Rosalind Clarkson (née Addison), English - May 2017
Ann Clifford (née Willson), Social Administration - 23 April 2021
Ann Clifford died 23 April 2021 aged 89 years.
Ann graduated in 1952 with a BA honours first class in Social Administration.
She had excelled at Bromley Grammar school in Mathematics but her chosen degree reflected a life-long concern for social welfare.
Her wartime experience no doubt contributed to this, often describing the social conditions she had seen in her early teens whilst evacuated to north west Scotland.
At Nottingham she met and later in 1954 married army officer David Clifford (BA Industrial Administration).
For eighteen years as an ‘Army wife ‘ they travelled to and lived in Hong Kong and Germany as well as Yorkshire, Dorset, Kent and Hampshire.
It was a ‘nomadic’ life she said but loved it.
Bringing up Peter who was born in 1955 and Nicky in 1958 was a big part of these years.
When David retired from the army they moved to Hertford where they lived for the next 40 years.
Ann worked as both a teacher, social worker and trainer for social workers in both Haringey and Hertfordshire.
Her retirement was marked by activity with a wide range of volunteer, church and charitable projects with the elderly and those in need.
She and David also spent time caring for their grandchildren, two of whom have now also graduated from Nottingham University.
After David’s death in 2013 she moved to an independent retirement complex in Cambridge.
Throughout all these years she maintained contact with the many friends she and David had made.
Obituary kindly supplied by Ann's son, Peter Clifford.
Roger Davy, Geography - 27 January 2016
Graham Day, Civil Engineering - 23 September 2018
Margaret Deeble (née Jones), Agriculture/Horticulture - 2 December 2005
Donald Fellows, Classics - 21 January 2012
Dr Brian Fletcher, Geology/Geography - 12 March 2018
John Gay, Botany - August 2012
John Glasby, Chemistry - 5 June 2011
Phillip Goddard, Agriculture and Horticulture - 2012
Eric Hall, Physics/Mathematics
James Haythornthwaite, Agriculture - 4 April 2011
Robert Hoh, Law - 24 December 2007
Peter Holland, Agriculture/Horticulture - August 2009
John Holmes, Slavonic Studies - 1987
John Housley, Chemistry - 14 April 2006
William Hudson, Agriculture/Horticulture - November 2020
Bill Hudson was born in North Norfolk into a farming family but wasn’t in a position to automatically go into farming.
After leaving Gresham's School in Holt, he spent a short spell in the RAF before being accepted to study Agriculture at Sutton Bonington, part of Nottingham University.
There he met his future wife, Jane Leach, who was reading for a National Diploma in Dairying (1949 – 1951).
He went on to gain experience on a pig farm at Letton and married Jane in 1953.
With the help of his uncle, he was able to purchase a small holding in Hevingham, Norfolk, a mixed livestock and arable enterprise, which became solely pigs.
In 1974 he moved to a larger farm in North Walsham, Norfolk where he was able to farm arable land again along side the pigs.
He retired to Cley, Norfolk in 1994 and enjoyed sailing, birdwatching, and playing Bridge.
He spent much time researching the history of the Hudson family and farming, stretching back some two hundred years, and with the help of his grandson, Louis Hudson, and the rest of the family published a personal book for them all to enjoy.
He was predeceased by Jane in 1998.
He leaves a son, Anthony, and two daughters, Patricia and Alison, and seven grandsons.
Obituary kindly supplied by William's daughter Patricia Hudson.
Arthur Hull, Grouped Subjects - 28 February 2008
Colin Hutchinson, Agriculture/Horticulture - 16 February 2018
Margaret Jackson, Mathematics - 23 October 2012
Peter Johnson, Mathematics - 12 July 2011
(Arthur) Neville Jones, Zoology/Botany - 30 December 2014
John Kirk, Chemistry/Mathematics - 1 February 2021
Kenneth Lane, History and Theology - 20 July 2011
Alan Law, Mining Engineering - 2006
Tryphosa Lee (née Dawes) Zoology - 10 November 2004
Joyce Lloyd (née Hawkes), Mycology - April 2009
John Loarridge OBE, History/English - 27 March 2020
For a full obituary please see the C.P.J.Field website .
Geoff Longlands, Civil Engineering
George Barrie Marson OBE, Physics
Ninian McInnes, Mining Engineering
Pran Nath Mehta, English / History / Law (Grouped Subjects) - 5 December 2019
Pran passed away peacefully at Joliette Hospital in his 91st year.
He will be dearly missed by his wife Renate Beck Mehta, his children Kiran and Stephanie, his brothers Praful Nath, and Prem Nath, sister Devi Thapar, and his family, friends and community members .
A respected teacher and elder, Pran Nath’s advice was frequently sought and highly valued.
Born in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, and fluent in several languages, he was at home in many parts of the world over the course of his life—including Paris, Zofingen, Frankfurt, New Dehli, and since 1970, Rawdon, Quebec.
Pran Nath was a Mason for 50 years with the Rawdon Centennial Lodge 135, and a long-time member of the Royal Canadian Legion, Branch 198.
He will be remembered as an avid student of history, a fine photographer, a dedicated practitioner of English, and most of all, a tireless raconteur.
There will be a Celebration of Life for Pran Nath Mehta in the spring of 2020.
Obituary kindly supplied by Pran's wife, Renate
Gordon Mingay, History - 3 January 2005
Byron Newton, Mathematics
Anthony James Moore, Maths - 9 June 2013
Keith Neill, Chemistry - 30 May 2010
John Pearson, Geography - 2 December 2008
Pauline Pocock, English
John Polkinghorn, Economics and Econometrics - 19 October 2017
Rita Elizabeth Portwood, History - 16 August 2022
Charles Eric Richardson, Physics (Grouped Subjects)
David Robinson OBE, Geography - 2017
Michael Robinson, Electrical Engineering - 12 January 2008
Donald Reap, Industrial Economics - 25 March 2013
Jean Milly Sawyerr (née Brown), Geography
Basil John Silver, Agriculture - 5 July 2018
Edwin Smith, Mathematics - 4 July 2010
Ernest Smith, Physics and Astronomy - 17 December 2011
Peter Thornhill, Mechanical Engineering - 16 May 2010
Clement Tagoe, Agriculture/Horticulture - 26 March 2013
Diana Upton (née Martin), Agriculture/Horticulture - 2023
Diana Upton became a Maths teacher and taught at Clifton High School for Girls.
She taught those that were struggling with Maths, as her kind and approachable nature helped the girls get over their Maths phobia.
She was missed by the girls she taught once she retired.
She lived in Bristol much of her married life, with her husband who was an agriculturist.
Obituary kindly supplied by Diana's son, Mark.
John Walsh, Civil Engineering - December 2014
Kenneth Ward, German/English - 9 October 2016
Kenneth Ward was born in Durham and was Head Boy at the Johnston Grammar School, before attending Nottingham University where he graduated from in 1952 having studied German and having spent some time in Heidelberg.
During his university days, he played viola in the university orchestra and sang tenor in the choral society.
It was here that he met Marion Ward (nee Walker) and they were married in Nottingham 1956 and were together for 60 years before his death in 2016.
After graduating, he took up a teaching post in Nottingham, and was also fast tracked to become a licensed Lay Reader in the Church of England, a post which he continued to hold for over 50 years until ill health forced him to stop.
He was then made Reader Emeritus by the Bishop of Ripon.
In 1963 Ken moved to Leeds to take up a teaching post for RE and German and remained in the same school until retirement having moved up through the ranks to Head of School.
He continued his musical and church activities throughout his time in Leeds and left a lasting legacy to numerous organisations he was involved with.
Obituary kindly provided by Kenneth's daughter Caroline.
Marion Ward (née Walker), French/English - 1 August 2019
Marion Ward (nee Walker) was awarded a scholarship to the prestigious Manning School in Nottingham at the age of 11 before being awarded another scholarship, to her home town university of Nottingham which she duly accepted and went up to read French and English.
This was at a time in the late 40s when very few women were able to go to university and she remained proud of her achievement throughout her life.
It was at university that she met the love of her life, Kenneth Ward, and they were married in St Leonard’s church, Wollaton, Nottingham, in 1956.
They both held teaching posts in Nottingham until 1963 when they moved to Leeds.
Marion remained a teacher of modern languages until her retirement.
She was very involved in her local church and was a keen amateur singer, having nutured that love of choral singing whilst at University.
Obituary kindly supplied by Marion's daughter Caroline.
Clive Woodcock, Grouped Subjects - 8 January 2018
Peter Woodhead, Mining Engineering - 14 March 2012
Brian Woods, Law - 22 September 2013
Dennis York, History and Psychology - 14 September 2011
Pauline Alderman (née Vicary), Chemistry
Pauline Alderman (nee Vicary) was the first of her family to attend University and she did so against their wishes.
Turning down a pre-arranged job and travelling to Nottingham was a life changing step for her.
At University she pursued her natural scientific bent, and indulged her passion for choral singing, through which activity she met her future husband, Cedric, an engineering student.
After graduating, Pauline worked as a crystallographer for ICI at their research laboratories in Welwyn, Hertfordshire.
Career prospects at the time did not favour women and she did not receive full credit for much of the research she undertook, although her work was published under joint authorship in the journals Nature, Acta Crystallographica and the Journal of the Chemical Society.
She left to take up teaching, a decision that facilitated a career break to bring up two sons, and which provided a convenient route back into employment, following the untimely death of her husband in a road accident.
She retired from teaching early and moved close to the Suffolk coast where she developed a voluntary ‘career’ in the Girl Guiding movement, going on to become a qualified County trainer and subsequently chair of the Suffolk Trefoil Guild, along with running a merchandising depot for the local Guide Association for 27 years.
Whilst she had moved on a long way from her chemistry degree, she never forgot the debt she owed Nottingham University for giving her the opportunity to study for a degree and to gain a freedom she had not previously experienced.
Obituary kindly supplied by Pauline's son David.
Margaret Anderson (née Hay), Botany - 3 July 2017
John Ashley, Mechanical Engineering/Production Engineering
David G Barker, Grouped Subjects - 8 January 2014
Ross Barron, Civil Engineering - 21 December 2012
Dr James (Jim) Brown, Mining Engineering - August 2022
Jim was born in 1933 at St Thomas’ Hospital in London, therefore technically a true Cockney.
His father, from Scotland, and his mother, from Leicestershire, lived in Ladbroke Grove, and were In the summer of 1939 staying with his grandparents at Husbands Bosworth in Leicestershire when war broke out and so he naturally stayed for a while.
There he developed his love of gardening while looking after his Grandparents’ garden.
On his return to London a chance meeting led to him getting a place at St Clement Danes Grammar School where he became deputy head boy.
There he developed a love of chemistry and physics.
The only exam he ever failed was French which, given his many holidays in France, a French daughter in law and his love of French food and wine seems rather odd in retrospect.
He came to Nottingham University in 1950 to study Mining Engineering where he obtained a First-Class Honours degree, and then from 1953-1956 completed a PhD.
After completing his PhD, he joined the National Coal Board as a management trainee and obtained his Mine Manager’s Certificate.
On a visit to his old department at the University, he was offered the post of Lecturer and accepted.
While undertaking his PhD he joined St Andrew’s Presbyterian Church in Nottingham serving on the Fellowship of Youth (FOY) as national mission secretary and held the post of church secretary for some thirty years.
It was at the Church that he met Dorothy and they married there in December 1959 before setting up home in Gotham.
In 1966, he took a 2 year sabbatical after securing a post with UNESCO to set up a Mining Department at the Middle East Technical University in Ankara to where the family moved.
Over the next 40 years he travelled extensively, both on family holidays and for work.
He visited over 50 countries on every continent (Antarctica excepted); particular highlights being South America, Borneo, the Maldives and New Zealand, where he practiced his interest in photography.
His work at the University continued, and he was appointed Senior Lecturer in 1984.
He specialised in mine ventilation, applied acoustics, and applied geophysical exploration and researched in most of the areas he taught.
However, his chief focus was on teaching his students and he regarded this as the most important element of his job: not research for research purposes or to increase his academic paper count.
Aged 57, he took early retirement but carried on with his lecturing for another 3 years.
He became a director of Newtech Limited where he continued to design and make specialised equipment both for teaching purposes and also for industrial applications.
He never claimed to be a musician, but he loved Gilbert and Sullivan, opera, and the ballet, going to Covent Garden on occasion.
Seeing Aida performed at the Paris Opera House was particularly memorable.
Obituary kindly supplied by Jim's wife, Dorothy, and classmate, Peter Hackett
June Chilton, Geography - 4 June 2013
Elizabeth Davison (née Evenden), English - December 2016
Laurence Draper, Physics - 17 June 2010
Angela Ede (née Horsman), French - 23 July 2016
John Elliott, Geography - August 2015
Norman Else, Mathematics - 6 April 2023
William Foster-Thornton, Agriculture/Horticulture
David Gale, Politics and Economics - 2012
Audrey Gardner (née Pilling), French - April 2025
Margaret Garlick, Social Administration - 11 March 2020
Dr Raymond (Ray) Grout, Pharmacy - 3 August 2017
For a full obituary please see the School of Pharmacy
David Hare, Law - 6 January 2009
Alan Hall, Grouped Subjects
Peter Hall, Medieval and Modern History - 8 September 2012
Mary Hallam (née Lyden), Geology - 21 April 2013
Adeline Hammond, Social Administration
Ian Harper, Spanish/Hispanic Studies - May 2011
Charles Guy Hawthorne, Agriculture - 23 November 2015
Jack Herbert, English - April 2021
Paul Ingram, Mathematics/Physics - 13 November 2019
Roger Jackson, Physics - 8 January 2009
William Jackson, Medieval & Modern History - 15 July 2007
Donald Jones, Physics – November 2021
Dr David Kerridge, Chemistry - January 2016
David completed his BSc in 1953, followed by a PhD in 1956 and a DSc in 1980.
In his career he taught at the University of Ghana as well as a Professor at the University of Southampton in Organic Chemistry.
Obituary information kindly supplied by David's wife, Patricia.
Richard Kitching, Law - 26 August 2013
Donald Lambley, Mathematics - 6 October 2010
Dr Philip Lawley, Chemistry - 18 December 2011
Peter Longhurst, Economic and Social History - 21 November 2009
John Russell Marsden, French - 1990
Margaret Patricia (Pat) Mays (née Lloyd), Mathematics with Statistics
Malcolm McDougall, Mining Engineering - 20 March 2019
William Millington, Mining Engineering - 1 October 2013
Harry Milton, Chemistry - 18 November 2010
Geoffrey Moreton, Electrical Engineering - 3 April 2015
David Moulam, Geography - 2 June 2009
Gerard Pink, Politics - 20 April 2006
Frederick Riddell, Politics - 8 September 2011
John Roddan, Agriculture - 30 October 2020
James (Jim) Saunders, Geography - 5 May 2020
James William Saunders died peacefully on 5th May 2020.
Loving father to Denis, Margaret, Elizabeth and Fiona, grand-father, great grand-father, teacher, educationalist and raconteur.
Proud Irishman who loved living in England, rugby, guinness and tea.
Funeral to be held at Amersham Crematorium on 19th May 2020.
Strictly family only during the current measures.
No flowers please but donations to Open University OU scholarships or Mourne Heritage Trust , please reference Jim Saunders.
There will be a thanksgiving service in Rostrevor when travel is easier.
Obituary kindly supplied by Denis Saunders
Sultan Azlan Shah, Law - 28th May 2014
Dr John Sheldon, Chemistry
Doreen Shotton (née Grunwell), Mathematics - 14 September 2016
Doreen Shotton, former Mathematics student at the University of Nottingham, passed away on 14th September 2016, at a hospice close to her home in Runcorn, Cheshire.
Doreen was 85 years young, and a had a full and varied life; she often spoke about her time at Nottingham, where she became known as the ‘girl in the green dress’ - funny how our University experiences follow us around in life?
She is hoping that one of her grandchildren will follow her footsteps to the east Midlands.
Doreen developed cervical cancer, which eventually got the better of her after a short illness.
She leaves four children, 12 grandchildren and a host of fond memories.
Obituary kindly supplied by Doreen's son, Mark.
Ella Skene (née Basker), Agriculture/Horticulture - January 2013
Ann Smith (née Rowlands), Theology - 30 August 2018
David Sneesby, Industrial Economics - 24 April 2013
Robert Spiller, Physics
Kenneth Sumner, Electrical Engineering - November 2010
Alastair Taylor, Agriculture/Horticulture
Dr John Thynne CB, Chemistry - 23 October 2018
John Towle, Mechanical Engineering - 2 August 2011
Edith Audrey Turner (née Williams), Mathematics - 4 February 2015
Audrey Turner, aged 82 years, passed away suddenly at her home in West Malvern on 4 th February 2015.
She is survived by her three children: Alison, Lindsay, and Meddon, and by her five grandchildren.
Born in Tredegar, South Wales, she was brought up in Leicester.
She began her study for a degree in Mathematics at Nottingham University at the age of 17 years - young for the time.
In 1953, Audrey was the only one of her cohort at that University to receive a First Class Honours degree in Mathematics.
After completing her teaching diploma a year later, she taught Mathematics in a variety of schools and became a Lecturer at Worcester Training College.
She maintained her keen interest in teaching through tutoring whilst her children were young.
The family moved to West Yorkshire when her husband, Ellis, gained the Headship of Normanton Grammar School.
Audrey then worked as a Teacher of Mathematics and Further Mathematics at Wakefield Girls’ High School from 1975-1986 where she also fulfilled the role of a sixth form mistress.
During her time at the school she acted as an adviser to the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge with regard to their Common Entrance Examination papers, in particular Mathematics.
In 1985, following the retirement of her husband, the couple moved to West Malvern where they quickly became involved in the local community.
Both became members of St James’ Church West Malvern, where for a time Audrey worked as Treasurer for the Friends of the Parish Church.
They developed a keen interest in bowls and bridge at which they were very proficient.
Audrey worked part-time at the local St James’ and the Abbey Girls’ School until her retirement.
Following the death of her husband in July 1995, after 38 years or marriage, Audrey organised and ran extensive bridge groups at her house through the University of the Third Age.
This brought her much pleasure and purpose in later life.
Always wanting to keep her mind active and challenged, Audrey was never to be found far away from a crossword or puzzle book of some description.
Her other enjoyments included reading books (especially crime novels), visiting the theatre and watching detective programmes.
During her close companionship with Dr Roger Morgan until his death in 2004, she became adept at tapestry work and researched her family tree back to 1746.
Whatever Audrey put her hand to she did with excellence and dedication and these were the hallmarks of her well-lived life.
She was devoted to her family and proud of all their achievements, as they were of her.
To all who knew her, Audrey was interesting, clever, resourceful, selfless, reliable and caring.
The legacy and the memories she leaves behind will all be greatly treasured.
She will be sorely missed.
Obituary supplied by her children Dr Alison Irvine, Dr Lindsay Turner and Mr Meddon Turner, all of whom bear ‘Williams’ as their middle name.
Robert Truswell, Civil Engineering
Marion Uglow, German/Slavonic Studies - 12 April 2024
Edward (Ted) Ward, Chemistry - 12 October 2011
Dr Brian Wilson, Grouped Subjects - 31 October 2019
Dr David Gordon Wilson, Mechanical Engineering - 2 May 2019
For a full obituary please see MIT News
Robert Wroughton, Pharmacy - 17 January 2011
Francis "Frank" Barcroft, Chemistry - 29 July 2018
Gordon Bowley, Law - 31 December 2017
Gordon was always very proud of being among the first law undergraduates at Nottingham and was very grateful for the opportunities it gave him.
He was the first of his family to attend university and I was delighted to follow him there, if only for the one year PGCE!
He is survived by his wife of 58 years, Margaret, their son, John, and grandchildren, Rebecca and Daniel.
Obituary kindly supplied by Gordon's son, John.
Mary Bridgewater (née Kemp), English - 16 February 2020
Sheila Brown (née Baird-Parker), Pharmacy - February 2017
Vernon Brown, Pharmacy - 2017
Sheila Cooper (née Walker), Law - 1960
Peter Crampton, Geography - 12 July 2011
Brian Cresswell, Mathematics - 20 December 2020
Jirair Danielian, Mining Engineering - 31 October 2008
Geoffrey Dove, Physics - 8 January 2021
Oliver Dearden OBE, Civil Engineering - 3 December 2023
For a full obituary please see BBC Bristol News
Dr Norman Elmore, Chemistry
James Exley, Geology - 12 June 2017
James (Michael) Fort, Agriculture/Horticulture - 21 June 2020
Harry (Tony) Field, Geology/Geography - 30 October 2018
John Gregory, Mathematics - February 2013
Peter Godwin-Wolf, French/Spanish - 27 March 2010
Doreen Gordon (née Collis), Social Studies - 2016
Guy was born on 30 October 1931, at Arnold, Nottingham.
The family moved to Cropwell Butler shortly afterwards where some of the family remains today.
He was educated at Ashby Grammar School.
In 1954, Guy achieved a degree in agriculture at Nottingham University School of Agriculture, Sutton Bonnington.
While at university he became farm manager for Major Spalding of Flawborough Hall, daily commuting to the University.
Following Major Spalding's death in 1955, Guy inherited the farm.
The same year he married Ann Hayday from East Bridgford.
They had three children, John, William and Sarah.
Over the following years the family flourished and the farm prospered.
Tragically, in September, 1969, Ann was involved in a motor accident.
She was in a coma for many weeks and needed full-time care at home for the rest of her life.
She died in 1982.
During the years from 1955, the farm was modernised and developed.
Guy was a well-respected and progressive farmer.
He not only managed his own farm, but was employed by other landowners to develop farms both locally and further away.
He was known for being meticulous in detail, enterprising and eager to use improved underdrainage, modern techniques and equipment.
In the early 1980s, Guy’s brother Roger joined him in a successful intensive pig breeding and rearing project.
When he was 37, Guy became a member and subsequently chairman of Newark Internal Drainage Board.
In 1968 he was appointed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries to Trent River Authority to represent Land Drainage interests.
Eventually he joined the new Severn Trent Water Authority and following the inception of the National Rivers Authority in 1989 he became chairman of the National Rivers Authority Flood Defence Committee Severn Trent Region.
In the summer of 1989 he suffered a serious illness and underwent amputation of his left leg which caused him constant discomfort for the rest of his life.
Despite this he remained dedicated to all his commitments and was hugely respected by all his colleagues.
He had a thorough knowledge of flood defence and land drainage.
During his time in office he was involved in the promotion of major urban protection schemes resulting in many thousands of properties being protected from flooding.
When privatisation of the water industry was being planned he successfully opposed the inclusion of land drainage and flood defence.
Guy was an enthusiastic supporter of the water industry’s charity Wateraid which is dedicated to providing clean water in Africa and other countries and in 1987, with his wife Mary, visited a Wateraid project in Ghana.
Guy was churchwarden and treasurer for Flawborough Church for thirty-five years.
He was efficient and scrupulous in all aspects of maintenance and financial matters.
Due to chronic settlement problems resulting in extensive and regular fractures in the church fabric, many thousands of pounds had to be found and he proved to be an excellent fundraiser.
Guy will be missed by colleagues in the water industry where he was much respected for his knowledge and commitment.
Friends and family will remember and miss a kind man always interested in what others had to say with a great sense of humour.
A much loved husband, father and ‘Grandpa’ he leaves his wife, three children and six grandchildren.
Obituary kindly supplied by Guy's wife, Mary.
David Hills, Economics - 3 December 2009
Alan Hunt, Civil Engineering
YM Tengku Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Ahmad Rithauddeen "Deen" Bin Tengku Ismail, Law - 29 April 2022
For a full obituary please see here
John Izbicki, German/Philosophy - 9 December 2021
An obituary written by Janet Weston and published in the AJR Journal is available here .
Sheila Joel (née Benson), Mathematics
John M Jowett, Civil Engineering - 12 January 2017
John Jowett passed away peacefully 12 January 2017, aged 83, at Chevington House, Bourne.
John studied at the University of Nottingham from 1951-1954 and graduated in Civil Engineering with the qualifications C.Eng, BSc (Hons), later becoming a F.I.C.E and F.I.H.E.
Following his graduation and a brief spell in the UK, he spent the next 30+ years working abroad as a resident civil engineer.
The majority of those years were in West Africa.
Semi retiring in New Zealand, he then returned to the UK in 2005.
Much loved husband of Joyce, father of Karen, Joanne and Jeremy and grandfather to Liam, Jack, Erik, Ashleigh, Lily and Hooper.
He will be sadly missed and fondly remembered for his sense of humour and generosity, by all his family, friends and those that knew him.
Obituary kindly supplied by John's son, Jeremy.
Noel King, Theology - 1 February 2009
David Knights, Chemistry and Physics
David Lee, Physics - 31 December 2018
John Lister, Physics/Mathematics - February 2009
Douglas Lochhead, French and History - 14 February 2019
David Corbet Lovibond, French - 13 March 2013
Mary Eunice Lovibond (née Ranson), Pharmacy - April 2019
Arthur Loughton, Agriculture/Horticulture
Peter Martin, Physics - January 2016
Dr Henry McCallion, Mechanical Engineering
Ann Melly, Social Administration - 30 December 2010
Anna Hepburn Merz, Politics/Law - 4 April 2013
Beryl Miller (née Brickman), Social Administration
Dr Geoffrey Morris, History - 13 May 2017
Vivian John Montague, Agriculture/Horticulture - 23 December 2017
John Montague met Prince Charles in 2017, and was the longest serving member of the Soil Association, of which Prince Charles is a patron.
Obituary kindly supplied by the Montague family.
Martin Naunton, Chemistry - 13 July 2011
Dr Michael Newmann, Physics - 11 January 2020
Michael Milne Newmann was born in Yorkshire in 1931.
His father, Reginald Neumann, was manager of Stanton and Staveley coke ovens, and this necessitated the family’s move to Stanton-by-Dale in Derbyshire.
At the age of six, Michael had a fall which resulted in his being admitted to hospital with Perthes Disease, and many of his formative and early teenage years were sporadically spent in hospital.
It is a great tribute to the hospital tutors that he excelled above children in the normal school system, and when his Maths tutor left, Michael continued with the lessons on his own.
When he was eighteen, his schooling, especially in Maths, earned him a place as an undergraduate in the University of Nottingham.
He made some lasting friends, graduated with a BSc in 1954 and completed a PhD in 1958.
After a short period working for the War Ministry in London, he came to Northern Ireland to lecture at Queen’s University, Belfast, and remained in the Department of Engineering Maths – where he became a Reader – up to the time of his retirement.
One of his specialisations was Control Theory.
Many of his academic papers were co-written with research students, whom he always acknowledged.
It was gratifying to hear one of those research students, who is now a Professor of Control Theory at an English University, say that another five of Michael’s research students were now in Professorships, and that he was a powerhouse of ideas – and great fun.
He kept in touch with his Nottingham University friends, and their children, as he did with his colleagues at Queen’s University.
He died in Lisburn Care Home on 11th January, 2020, and the chapel at Roselawn Cemetery was filled to capacity with people he had known throughout his life – neighbours, colleagues, Darts Club, Swimming Club, Table-tennis Club, and his drinking acquaintances from the Common Room.
Michael’s only brother, Barry, died in a plane crash in 1971, and it was very touching that Michael’s two nephews and niece were prepared to travel from Australia to attend his funeral.
The coffin was carried by friends to the strains of the pipes of Reverend Angus Adamson, who also gave the address.
Ferdinand Jonsson read two poems in Icelandic with their translations, and Michael’s daughter, Kate, spoke with affection about the minus and plus of being his only child.
Obituary kindly supplied by Michael’s daughter, Kate
Richard Nisbet, Civil Engineering - 11 March 2010
Geoffrey Nobbs, English - March 2016
Audrey O'Leary, French
Desmond O'Leary, Spanish/Hispanic Studies
Victor Paling (Rod), Geology - 15 August 2023
John Perkins, Chemistry - 4 November 2023
Geoffrey Pugh, Botany - February 2006
Margaret Richards (née Case), English - 24 May 2015
David Reddish, Mining Engineering - 25 February 2011
Gywn Rose, Industrial Economics - 17 September 2018
Christine Sansom (née Williams), Physics/Mathematics - 13 November 2013
Mary Sheldon;(née Preston), Chemistry
Robert Sparrow, Civil Engineering - 23 June 2008
Allan Straw, Geography - 26 June 2024
Further details available via University of Exeter
Beryl Straw (née Goodwin), Politics - 7 September 2010
Charles Sutton, Agriculture - 21 January 2011
John Underwood, Physics - 16 February 2016
Albert Taylor, Electrical Engineering
William Gordon Keith Taylor, Chemistry - May 2013
Victor Tunkel, Law
John Turner, Mathematics
Mary Ward (née Turner), Social Administration - 2015
Dr Joseph (Joe) Watson, Electrical Engineering - 24 April 2025
Joseph (“Joe”) Watson was born in Sheffield in 1931.
He gained his B.Sc.
in electrical engineering from the University of Nottingham 1954, his Master’s degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1955 and his Ph.D.
from the University of Nottingham in 1958.
Joe spent most of his working life in the Electrical Engineering department at Swansea University, where he was known for the interdisciplinary nature of his work, bringing together engineers, chemists, aeronautics, and even surgeons to collaborate on projects ranging from gas sensing to electrically stimulated bone healing.
He was a founding member of G.A.S.G (the Gas Analysis and Sensing Group), running it as chairman almost single-handedly for many years and becoming its president when it was incorporated into a private company.
He was the author of several books, including a standard text on analog circuit design, as well as a large number of technical articles.
He also co-edited a series of volumes on automotive, chemical, biological and aeronautical sensors.
Joe had many interests outside work including traveling, playing the tuba and electric organ, and private flying.
In his later years, he was a proud member of U.F.O.
(United Flying Octogenarians).
Joe passed away peacefully at his home on April 24th 2025.
He is survived by his wife Margaret, children Glenn and Jill, grandchildren Andrew, Ian, Sasha and Libby, and leaves a legacy of students and colleagues around the world that he mentored over the years.
He will be missed by all.
Obituary kindly supplied by Joe's wife, Margaret Watson (née Barnett), Mathematics 1960
Brian Whittingham, Slavonic Studies - 11 August 2009
Victor Willins, Economics
David Wright, Civil Engineering - February 2016
Richard Allsopp, Mathematics – 8 November 2021
Celia Archer (née Mortimer), Economic and Social History - 20 January 2010
David Baxter, Chemistry - 15 December 2023
Patricia Bennett, Geography
Joan Bethell (née Austin), Chemistry - 17 March 2010
Vera Bottomley (née Wall), French and German - August 2021
Vera spent her entire career teaching French to primary and secondary school children as well as to adults.
She also had three children, one of whom (Alison) went to Nottingham to read German and French!
In recognition of Vera’s contributions to French language and culture she was appointed Chevalier dans l’Ordre des Palmes Acadèmiques by the French Government in 2007.
Both before and during retirement in 1992 Vera was actively involved with the University of Reading Women’s Club (her husband Trevor Bottomley (French and English 1951-55) was Registrar of the University), especially the Newcomers Club section, which provided friendship and contacts as well as some English tuition for the wives and partners of overseas students, mainly postgraduate.
When she handed this over to a younger person the Women’s Club appointed her their Vice President – a post she held until her death.
Obituary kindly supplied by Vera's husband, Trevor Bottomley.
Anthony Bowers, Law
Keith Bradshaw, Chemistry - 16 December 2024
Sally Bullock (née Richards), Dairying - 11 April 2010
Roger Burton, French/Spanish - 30 July 2018
Donald Casson, Chemistry - 7 March 2016
David Conkie, French
David Dalton, Mining Engineering - 14 April 2008
Arah Danielian, Physics - 19 January 2013
David Daniels, Chemistry
Michael Davis, Psychology – November 2021
David Driver, Social Administration
Dennis Drysdale, French - July 2010
Geoff Dye, Mechanical Engineering - 26 September 2022
Norman Eatough, Economics - 31 August 2010
George Farrimond, Civil Engineering - 27 July 2010
Chris Garnett, Chemistry - 13 May 2014
Maureen Gilmour, Pharmacy - 5 March 2017
Clive Granger, Mathematics - 27 May 2009
David Green, Chemistry - 12 July 2008
Kenneth Gregory, Law - 10 September 2010
Peter Griffiths, Physics
William Hammond, Mining Engineering - 14 November 2008
Derek Hanson, Chemistry - 21 March 2018
After graduating from Nottingham (where he met my Mother, Pamela Hanson, French, 1954) he went on to study engineering at the University of Cambridge.
After graduating from the University of Cambridge as a chemical engineer, Derek joined ICI on Teesside.
He worked there for 14 years in research, production management, and design engineering.
Derek subsequently joined what was then John Brown PLC, and spent 26 years in engineering design and construction of plants for the chemical, pharmaceutical and pulp and paper industries.
Most of that time was in the role of Chief Executive of various businesses within John Brown.
Being a Nottingham graduate myself, we attended a Nottingham event at the Houses of Parliament together last May.
Obituary kindly supplied by Derek's daughter, Adèle Hanson (French, 1987)
Dr Anne Hare (née Seabrooke), Chemistry
Godfrey Hare, Geography - 31 March 2010
Donald Harrison, Civil Engineering - October 2013
John (Barrie) Heath, Law - March 2013
Graville Hutchinson, Mathematics - July 2007
Dr Brian Hutton, History - 4 October 2023
Brian was from Barrow-in-Furness, and went to Nottingham 1952 where he met Mum (Serena Quartermaine May, History 1954-57).
After National Service in the Navy, at Joint Services School for Languages and listening to Russian warships in the Baltic, he went to UC London for the Diploma in Archive Administration (and the Churchill-Jenkinson prize).
Serena and Brian married in 1958 and shortly after he went to work at the Public Record Office of Northern Ireland in Belfast.
The family moved to Edinburgh in 1974, and Brian worked at the National Library of Scotland, becoming Secretary and Deputy Keeper.
He took early retirement in 1988, and Serena and Brian moved to S Oxfordshire.
He busied himself with CPRE and parish matters, and then did a law degree at Oxford Brookes, followed by a PhD at Brunel.
Brian Gerald Hutton, 01/11/33-04/10/23.
Survived by Serena, and daughter Katherine, son Patrick, and five grandsons.
Obituary kindly supplied by Brian's son, Patrick
Dr Barrie Machin, Agriculture/Horticulture - 22 January 2016
Dr Kenneth G Mason, Chemistry
John Stuart Morley Hutchinson, Zoology - 5 August 2010
Morley was Hons Zoology, 1955, one year before myself.
He was a popular figure in Hugh Stuart and around the University and also during the 2 years he spent at Sutton Bonington before he moved with his PhD.
supervisor, Dr Hamish Robertson, to Aberdeen.
Obituary kindly supplied by friend of John, Dr Peter J.
O'Connor.
Anne De Courcy Ireland (née Fontaine), Sociology - 14 January 2017
Lionel Lambourne, English and Philosophy - 12 February 2010
John Laws, Agriculture/Horticulture - 19 January 2011
Jim Leverton, Classics - February 2014
Malcolm Liddle, Geography - July 2007
Walter James, English - 25 December 2010
Nigel Hill Margerison, Pharmacy/Pharmaceutical Sciences - May 2013
Maureen Modlen (née Griffin), Economic and Social History - 16 June 2012
Dr Grenville Norton, Agriculture/Chemistry - 14 March 2024
Dr Norton, known to everyone as ‘Gren’, completed both a BSc in Agricultural Chemistry (1955) and PhD (1958) at Sutton Bonnington School of Agriculture.
Assuming the post of Assistant Lecturer in Plant Biochemistry shortly after, he travelled as a research fellow and visiting Professor to the California Institute of Technology and Cornell University, bringing back his research to Nottingham.
His passion and knowledge into the use of plant materials in food and feed was respected worldwide with support for further research from MAFF, Schering Agriculture, the Perry Foundation and the Homegrown Cereals Authority.
In 1961 he married Sutton Bonington student Pat Womersley with whom he had 3 children.
In 1971 he became Senior Lecturer and remained in this post until retiring in 1997.
Gren was a highly regarded colleague and mentor, co-authoring multiple publications at home and abroad including papers for the Royal Society of Chemistry, the British Journal of Nutrition, the Journal of Science and Food Agriculture, as well as papers conferences and congresses all over the world.
Obituary kindly supplied by daughter, Ginny Winder.
Councillor John Pantall, Chemistry
David Paisley, Electrical Engineering - 9 February 2017
Professor Peter Perkins, Chemistry - 25 November 2022
Peter began his long association with Nottingham as a lowly lab.
assistant in the Botany department in 1948.
With his customary hard work, he progressed to attaining a First Class Honours degree in Chemistry, followed by a PhD in 1958 under the guidance of Professor Norman Greenwood.
Peter was a keen rock climber and was president of the University Climbing Club during his student days.
In 1968, he was awarded the University's first D.Sc.
in Chemistry.
He maintained a great affection for Nottingham University throughout his life.
Peter ended his academic career as Professor of Inorganic Chemistry at the University of Strathclyde.
Obituary kindly supplied by Peter's wife, Kay Perkins.
John Quinton, Physics - 11 October 2016
Charles Reeves, Mathematics
Ronald Rivers, German/French - 5 January 2021
Ron was the only child in his family to attend University and greatly valued his time at Nottingham, maintaining a lifelong interest in the University and City.
Following his graduation with a BA in German and French, Ron taught for two years before he felt called to become a minister in the Baptist church.
After attending theological college he led churches in Kent, Devon and finally Suffolk.
In 1962 he married Sheila and they went on to have three children, eight grandchildren, and had recently became great grand-parents.
Ron’s interest and skills in languages did not end with gaining his degree.
He taught himself a number of languages including Biblical Greek, Arabic and Italian.
As a fluent German speaker, he was a valued member of his town twinning organisation which paired Felixstowe with Wesel and Salzwesel, where he and Sheila made several reciprocated visits.
Ron passed away following a fall at home.
He was much loved and will be greatly missed by his family and friends.
Obituary kindly supplied by Ronald's Daughter Alison Killen.
Alan Soons, Education - 29 December 2011
David Robert Spray, Industrial Economics
Reverend Clive Tougher, Theology - 28 November 2019
Dr Alastair Strang, Mechanical Engineering - 4 July 2016
William Taylor, Agriculture/Horticulture
Brian Trueman, History - 2013
Edwin Truman, Law - 4 March 2013
Michael Wall, Agriculture - 2020
Marian Wallace (née Pringle), French - 9 February 2016
James "Jim" Waterworth MBE, Horticulture - May 2018
Brian Winterbottom, Civil Engineering - November 2013
Dr Ian Worrall, Chemistry - 2014
Dr Jean Worrall (née Driver), Chemistry - 2021
Maurice Wright, Politics
Professor Gary Acres OBE, Chemistry - 26 March 2019
The eminent fuel cell and catalyst researcher, Gary Acres, attended Burton Grammar School 1946-53 and was captain of Drake House.
He read Chemistry at Nottingham University, getting his BSc in 1956 before working on isotope research at AERE Harwell.
He then returned to Nottingham and got his MSc in 1961, and PhD in 1963.
He joined the newly formed catalyst research group of Johnson Matthey in 1963, becoming Director responsible for research and development operations from 1974 to 1985, and then Director, Corporate Development until 1994 when he retired from full time employment.
Since then he has held a number of advisory roles and was currently a Consultant to Johnson Matthey on fuel cell and related activities.
He was Chairman of the Grove Fuel Cell Symposium and the first Chairman of the European Fuel Cell Group.
Since 2000, he has been a Royal Academy of Engineering Visiting Professor on Sustainable Development at the University of Birmingham.
His awards include the Queen's Award for Technology and the MacRobert Award for the development of automobile emission control catalyst systems.
Gary’s widow, Ann, writes: Gary never really retired and just kept working on his main interest at the time, Fuel Cells, until dementia slowed him down.
He enjoyed sports, particularly rugger, cricket and tennis and we both enjoyed boating on the Thames when we moved to the Thames Valley.
He was secretary of the local River Thames Society for 20 years, taking part in campaigns to protect the river.
Gary’s other main interest was our two holiday homes in Somerset that I inherited, and he enjoyed spending time there, gardening, painting and decorating them, rather than sitting on a beach abroad which he found boring.
Until he was 70 he enjoyed excellent health and energy and lived life to the full.
Only at the end did he slow down.
Our children, Jonathan and Caroline, living in Abingdon and Southampton respectively, neither married at present.
Jonathan, an engineer, has followed Gary’s example of being a workaholic although as a teenager he declared he would never be like his father.
Obituary kindly supplied by Bill Wain and Ann Acres (Social Administration, 1956)
Peggie Andrews, History
John Basten, Geography - 5 April 2020
Ivy Jean Blanch (née King), Social Administration - 2022
Cathleen Bromwich (née Hardisty), Chemistry/School of Education - 18 September 2022
Lesley Bywater (née Bull), Zoology/Botany - August 2021
Kenneth Cazabon, Mechanical Engineering - 8 January 2006
Kenneth Chambers, Theology - 3 January 2022
Jim Chapman, Geography - 1 January 2009
James Coldrey, Chemistry - 2024
The Reverend Brian Coombes, Geography
Colin Cresswell, Botany - 6 December 2011
Vernon Dalkin, Physics - 24 July 2023
John Davidson, Agriculture/Horticulture - 2012
Alyn Davies, Chemistry - 17 January 2012
Robert Domleo, Agriculture/Horticulture - December 2022
Eric Dove, Russian
Heinrich Fessler, Mechanical Engineering - 22 June 2011
Gwenda Flude (née Davies), Social Administration
Neil Field, Geography - January 2007
Dennis Fox, Zoology - 2019
Brenda Griffiths (née Tweed), Theology - 1 December 2021
Robin Hannant, Civil Engineering - February 2022
Derek Hedge, Chemistry - 29 July 2011
Peter Henderson, Psychology
Clifford (Bryan) Hobson, Classics - 6 February 2022
Francis Hughes, Theology - October 2008
Dr Michael Jaycock, Chemistry - 27 February 2017
John Johnson, Physics - 13 June 2009
Helen Jones (née Lord), French - 17 October 2017
Geoffrey Kirk, Electrical Engineering - 3 July 2018
Muriel Laptain (née Parsonage), Dairying - 23 April 2019
Reginald Littlefair, Geology - May 2010
Dr Norman Logan DSc, Chemistry - 3 August 2018
Dr Edward Markham, Chemistry - January 2014
James Mack, Physics - 1960s
Gilbert Manley, Zoology - 3 May 2008
Graham Merlane, Mathematics
Donald McKay, Civil Engineering - 24 August 2011
Dr Allan Mills, Chemistry - 2017
Peter Morris, Botany - 13 April 2015
Dr Roger Morton, Geology - 9 February 2019
The death occurred on 9th February, 2019 of Roger David Morton, aged 83 years.
Roger was a native of Nottingham and attended the Bluecoat School, before being offered a place in 1952 by the Department of Geology at the University of Nottingham, aged only 16.
Roger excelled, and graduated in 1956 with a First Class Honours degree in Geology.
He then proceeded to do a PhD thesis on the geology of the Teign Valley in Devon which culminated, in 1959, with the award of his doctorate.
Leaving Nottingham, Roger gained experience as a Post Doctoral Fellow at the Geological/Mineralogical Museum in Oslo, Norway where he stayed for two years before being appointed as a lecturer in geology at Nottingham University.
Eventually, in 1967, Roger took his family to Canada to take up a position as Professor of Economic Geology and Mineralogy at the University of Alberta.
Roger specialized in, and studied, ore deposits in the course of which he visited very many countries throughout the world.
His experience resulted in him participating in International Aid projects through the Canadian International Development Agency and the Canadian Executive Service Overseas.
He acted as a Visiting Professor at the University of Hamburg and the University of Nancy.
Gems and jewels were to figure among his many interests and he was a certified gemologist and was at one time President of Polar Star Diamonds Ltd and President of Diamori Ltd (specializing in fine jewels).
Although Roger retired in 1995 (becoming Professor Emeritus) his commitment to travel and mineralogical studies never wavered.
Obituary kindly supplied by Brian Playle (Geology, 1958; 1960), with information from the Edmonton Journal and the University of Alberta
Dr Peter Mounfield, Geography
John Osbourne, Civil Engineering
Dennis Parkinson, Botany
Beryl Paterson (née Fletcher), English - November 2017
Reverend Gillian Pocock (née Woodward), Geography - 8 September 2019
Clive Priestley, History - 24 January 2012
Prof Gerald Randell, Psychology - December 2015
Jacqueline Adolphine Zelie Redding (née Dumont), French - 11 June 2023
Maurice Robbins, Physics - 14 December 2015
Ronald John Roberts, Civil Engineering - 2017
Maureen Ryan, English
Pamela Sagar (née Marsden), Pharmacy/Pharmaceutical Sciences - October 2024
Dr Robert Peter Saundby, Medicine - November 2020
Former Royal Air Force medical officer and consultant in Public Health Medicine (born May 1932, died November 2020).
Always known as Peter, whilst a medical student (qualified Bristol 1956) he learnt to fly with the Bristol University Air Squadron developing a lifelong interest in aviation medicine.
Joining the regular RAF, he served as an isolated medical officer on St Kilda and later at the nuclear test site on Christmas Island before completing flying training and gaining RAF wings in 1960.
With pilot training, operational deployments and aircraft development, a series of postings mixed medicine with flying operational and training jet aircraft.
Staff college and a mid-career MMedSci from Nottingham led to senior rank, command of a hospital and public health.
Peter was appointed Honorary Physician to the Queen and retired with the rank of Air Commodore after five years in the Ministry of Defence as Deputy Surgeon General.
He moved to Wales to continue working in Public Health where his registrars benefitted from military training concepts.
He also continued as an examiner for the Faculty.
Flying sailplanes, he represented the RAF in national contests and for over fifty years advised the British Gliding Association on aeromedical matters.
He was a Full Cat instructor and tug pilot and had held the UK two-seat sailplane altitude and gain of height records, with a climb to over 19,000ft (gain of 17,750ft) in a Blanik in June 1964.
Following a second retirement he represented Europe Air Sports with EU rule making bodies.
In recognition he was made a Companion of Honour by both the Royal Aero Club and the Fédération Aéronautique Internationale.
After two years with extensive body paralysis Peter died peacefully at home.
He is survived by his wife Edith (qualified Bristol 1955), two children and five grandchildren.
Obituary kindly supplied by Peter's daughter Diana Foglizzo.
Donald (Don) Scollick, Pharmacy - 1 January 2024
Anthony Semper, Geography - 7 February 2016
Keith Shaw, Chemistry - 22 December 2021
Donald Sheath, Mechanical Engineering
Harold Shukman, Slavonic Studies with Philosophy - 11 July 2012
Having studied Russian at the Joint Services School for Linguists during his period of National Service, Harry was encouraged to apply for a degree course at Nottingham by the new head of the Department of Slavonic Languages, Dr John Fennell in 1953.
This was to prove the beginning of a distinguished academic career in the fields of Russian history, politics and culture.
From Nottingham, Harry moved to St Antony’s College, Oxford, where he obtained his DPhil in 1960, and which remained his academic base until his retirement in 1998.
In addition to several important edited and co-authored works, Harry wrote well-known books on Lenin and the Russian Revolution (1967) and Stalin (1999).
But perhaps most widely-known is his co-authored Secret-Classrooms: An Untold Story of the Cold War (2006), telling of the scene where Michael Frayn, Alan Bennett and many Russian scholars of their generation acquired their skills as military translators and interpreters of Russian before moving into other areas.
A superb linguist, inspiring teacher, prolific writer and translator, and a person capable of great generosity, Harry always cherished his Nottingham roots and kept in touch with successive generations of colleagues here, serving as external examiner in Russian for an unprecedented 6 years in the late 1970s and early 1980s.
He regarded his studies at Nottingham as ‘three of the best years of my life’ and fondly remembered the ‘delightfully rural’ location of the Slavonic Department in ‘The Orchards’ in his day.
As a student, he contributed three articles to the student newspaper Gongster about an NUS trip to the USSR in April 1954 at the invitation of the Anti-Fascist Committee for Soviet Youth.
This trip saw an unfortunate episode involving the leading Soviet writers Akhmatova and Zoshchenko at the Leningrad Union of Writers, which became part of Anglo-Soviet cultural lore.
Four pages of warm recollections written in more recent years include memories of Russian plays put on in the ‘new Music School’ in Lenton Grove, and student life ‘on the lower corridor of the Trent Building where games of bridge were in constant session.’ Harry will be greatly missed, both as a scholar and as a friend.
He leaves behind his wife Barbara, three children of an earlier marriage, and three stepchildren.
Obituary supplied by Malcolm V.
Jones(Emeritus Professor of Russian and Slavonic Studies and former President of Convocation)
Mark Stacey, Spanish/Hispanic Studies - 2017
George Sutton, Economic and Social History - 2012
James Turnbull, Education - 23 Oct 2016
James Turnbull died on 23rd October in Stuttgart, where he had worked for many years.
Jim was a notable cricketer for the University and, although batting was his speciality, he clean bowled Reg Simpson (the Notts CC and England opening batsman) in a charity match at Wollaton.
Joy for Jim, but the spectators were not best pleased; we were all there to see Reg hammer a quick 50 runs before giving up his wicket - the tradition then in charity matches.
Obituary kindly supplied by friend of James, Ream Plant.
Malcolm Warwick, Russian and Slavonic Studies - 29 January 2010
Peter Whitehead, Law - January 2013
William Whittington, Agriculture/Botany
Jeffrey Wyatt, Mining Engineering - May 2010
Karl Abraham, English - 13 November 2006
My father, Karl Edwin Abraham, passed away 13 November 2006.
I recall that he was, at that time, the oldest alumnus from Mauritius.
He married my mother, who is also Mauritian, in the UK in 1956 just after his studies at Nottingham where he had done a BA Honours in English.
He became an English teacher in Nigeria - where my eldest sister was born - before coming back to Mauritius where he was successively an English teacher and a trainer at the teacher's training college before becoming an Education Officer at the Ministry of Education in Mauritius.
He then decided to change career to become a diplomat.
He studied diplomacy at LSE, and was appointed First Secretary at the Mauritian High Commission in London.
When Mauritius gained independence on 12 March 1968, he read the lesson at Westminster Abbey for the ceremony organised for the occasion.
After his posting in London he was sent to the Mauritian High Commission in New Delhi for a couple of years, before spending about a year in New York at the United Nations.
We came back to Mauritius in 1973, and in 1976 he took 2-years' leave without pay to study Law and was called at the bar at middle temple to become a barrister.
He returned to his employment at the Ministry of Foreign affairs for about a year before taking an early retirement at the age of 50 to start a new career as lawyer.
He joined a new political party in 1980 and took part in the general elections in Mauritius of 1982 but was not elected.
He then became a district court magistrate at 55 for about 10 years before going back to the bar.
In the meantime he bought a language lab and started offering lessons in English pronunciation.
He retired at the age of 75 and died about a year after of pancreatic cancer, luckily for him this lasted only 15 days.
To end on a more positive note, I must say that during his studies at Nottingham University he used to sing in pubs to get some pocket money.
He enjoyed performing in amateur operas, concerts and musical shows, and playing in theatres in Mauritius.
He also formed part of a choir which used to sing Christmas Carols and perform in concerts.
Obituary kindly supplied by Karl's son, Bertrand
Dennis Atherton, Chemistry/Geology - 2012
Walter Beasley, Theology - 1 June 2012
Maurice Beckett, Agriculture/Horticulture - 1 May 2021
John Beswick, School of Biology - 26 December 2016
Alan Bird, Economics & Agricultural Economics
Patricia Bond (née Greenhough), Mathematics - 24 February 2016
Keith Horace Bonser, Russian & Slavonic Studies - 3 January 2015
Derek Black, Mathematics - 13 December 2017
John (Trevor) Bradley, Law - 9 March 2012
David Brunt, Civil Engineering - May 2018
Paul Bryan, Geography - April 2020
David Bullard, Civil Engineering - August 2024
Edna Cahill (née Harwood), Social Administration - 16 December 2022
After graduating Edna worked in Child Care in Devon, then Portsmouth.
Subsequently moving to London, she became a training officer with the Borough of Lambeth, moving on to the Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham becoming Principle Officer of Children's Homes there.
After taking early retirement in the mid 'Eighties, she moved with my Father to the Isle of Wight in 1986.
While periodically helping the local authority with some locum Child Placement work, she decided to train (and qualify) as a Homeopath, practicing for a time.
She also had an interest in Yoga, so predictably qualified in that as well, becoming a teacher.
While that would have been (more than) enough for most people, she also did a training course in massage, again qualifying and practicing until her hands gave out.
She died at 91, with all her marbles, although physically getting frailer.
She was doing 17 Physio exercises every day until the end.
Obituary kindly supplied by Edna's son Con Cahill
Lionel Cliffe, Economics - November 2013
Malcolm Cornwall, Physics - 1 February 2021
Dr Alan Daglish, Chemistry
Harry Daniels, Geography - 18 April 2018
Richard Davy, Geology - 8 September 2021
Barry Driscoll, Industrial Economics - 24 May 2012
Janet Dinah Dudley, Economics/social history - 2023
David Edwards, Law - December 2006
Martin Entwistle, Chemistry - April 2007
Howard Erskine-Hill, English Studies and Philosophy - 26 February 2014
Robert Fleetwood, English - 5 March 2017
Margaret Green (née McGough), Zoology - 2009
Alan Greenwell, Pharmacy/Pharmaceutical Sciences - 9 September 2010 Dr Peter Hackett OBE, PhD Rock Mechanics - 24 September 2024
Peter Hackett, OBE, a respected figure in the field of mining education and the former Principal of the Camborne School of Mines, passed away peacefully on the 24th of September 2024, at the age of 90.
Born to a bus conductor and a factory worker, Peter became the first in his family to attend university, completing a 1st class degree in Mining Engineering and later a PhD in Rock Mechanics at University of Nottingham.
During this time, he also met his future wife, Esme Lloyd, with whom he shared a lifelong partnership.
At just 37 years old, Peter accepted the role of Principal at the Camborne School of Mines in Cornwall, a position he held from 1970 to 1994.
During his tenure, he transformed the institution into a globally recognised leader in mining and minerals education.
He developed modern degree courses and postgraduate research programmes and was instrumental in the school's eventual merger with the University of Exeter.
Peter was made a Fellow of the Institute of Mining and Metallurgy (IMM) in 1989 and served as its President from 1989 to 1990.
He was also a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineers and was awarded an OBE for his services to mining education.
In 1993, Peter was appointed Deputy Lieutenant of Cornwall, representing Her Majesty the Queen at numerous formal engagements across the county until 2008.
Between 2005 and 2012 he also served as President of the Camborne branch of his favourite charity, the RNLI.
Peter remained active throughout his life and had a deep love for sailing.
Among his many accomplishments and club trophies, he proudly won the Falmouth Week Champagne Race.
An enthusiast of all things mechanical, Peter spent his retirement rebuilding and enjoying vintage & classic vehicles, including a yellow Triumph GT6 and later his treasured Lancia Fulvia.
A devoted father and grandfather, he cherished the time spent with his family, both in person and online.
Peter Hackett leaves behind a remarkable legacy in education, engineering, and the many lives he touched across the globe.
Obituary provided by Dr Hackett's daughter, Cathie.
Further obituary online .
Margaret Hafner (née Child), French - July 2016
Anthony (Tony) Hall, Civil Engineering - 21 June 2018
John Harness, Physics - 2 July 2011
Marjorie Harness (née Radcliffe), Music - 2 February 2017
Jackson Heyes, Law - 24 August 2019
David Helliwell, Industrial Economics - 6 July 2012
Anne Jessica Hills MBE (née Blackden), English - December 2007
Gerald Hooper, Mechanical Engineering - 19 February 2013
Elizabeth Howells, Politics - 13 May 2004
Barry Hutton, Geography - 2019
Michael Ierodiaconou, Physics - 2009
John Inglis, Zoology - 5 March 2011
Barrington Isted, Economics & Social History - 27 October 2013
Ian Campbell Jeffrey, Mining Engineering - 25 May 2013
Timothy Kidd, Theology - 12 June 2011
Joan Mary Kivi, Pharmacy - 3 April 2013
Terence Lemon, Civil Engineering - 19 August 2018
Josephine McElroy (née Martin), French – 14 June 2021
Josephine McElroy (née Martin) died on 14th June 2021 after a short illness.
Following graduation from Nottingham with a degree in French she went on to make full use of her languages, initially in London where she worked for a Belgian import business, then later in Kent following her marriage to John McElroy.
Taking time off work to have two children, she returned as a teacher, becoming head of modern languages at a comprehensive school in Kent and teaching French and German to A level.
She travelled frequently to France and had many lifelong friends there, including some she had initially made during her year abroad in Le Puy in the 1950s when studying for her degree at Nottingham.
Jo was the first from her family to attend university and the experience had a big impact on her.
She was proud that her children and grandchildren have gone on to study at university and to benefit as she did from the opportunity.
Obituary kindly supplied by Josephine's son John McElroy.
Patricia Moore, Social Administration - 13 October 2011
Kenneth Morris, Chemistry
Dorothy Mountfield (née Gibbs), Pharmacy - 23 May 2021
Anthony Norminton, Agriculture/Horticulture - 24 June 2011
Klaus Pelzer, Civil Engineering - 29 September 2022
Ralph Petty, Spanish
Anne (Margaret) Phillips (née Jones), Botany - October 2007
Philip Priestley, Chemistry - 9 March 2018
Eric Pringle, English - 2017
Online obituary can be found at The Writer's Guild of Great Britain
Gillian Reed, Geography
Maxwell Rouse, Mechanical Engineering - November 1990
James Saunt, Agriculture/Horticulture - November 2010
Janet Sharrocks (née Miller), Social Administration
Barry Smith, Chemistry - November 2009
Patrick Smith, Mathematics - 25 April 2020
Brian Stubbs, Pharmacy/Pharmaceutical Sciences - 19 September 2013
Dr Malcolm Thorneycroft, Electrical Engineering - 2 December 2018
John Bryan Todd, French - 17 November 2010
Roger Tomlinson, Geography - 7 February 2014
Tony Tolhurst, Law - November 2013
William Tromans, Politics - November 2005
Hugh Walker, Electrical Engineering - 20 June 2013
Keith Watkinson, Russian and Slavonic Studies
Hazel Whitaker (née Grain), Social Administration - 10 July 2021
Michael Widdas, Mining Engineering - 7 June 2009
Jean Willis (née Thomas), Chemistry - August 2022
Martin Willis, Chemistry - 30 October 2006
Rev Derek Robert Wooldridge, Economic & Social History
James (Ian) Wragg, History - 21 October 2023
Peter Ala Adjetey, Law - 15 July 2008
Marita Allwood (née Lawler-Wilson), English - 26 July 2006
Ram Azad, Mining Engineering - 15 July 2009
Mary (Jill) Ball (née Massey), French - 23 August 2017
John Baumber, Zoology - December 2009
Premanand Bhatt, Electrical Engineering - 18 June 2008
Evan Biggs, Geology – 23 July 2022
On graduating, Evan’s first job involved five years of geological mapping in Uganda, where he and his new wife, Hazel developed a love for Africa and also started their family.
His job then took him through British Guyana, Iran, French Dahomey and Nigeria before landing in Perth, Western Australia, where the family settled permanently in 1969.
Western Australia was a fertile ground for exploration geology, both in the private sector and for the State Government, and he also continued an active involvement in the Mining Club and IoM3 until 2022.
He continued an involvement with Nottingham Alumni including and the close friends he met at the University.
He is survived by three sisters, a brother, two sons and four grandchildren.
Obituary kindly supplied by Evan's son Paul Biggs.
Clifford Brown, Slavonic/French Studies - 2021
Clifford Gordon Brown was born in Nottingham in April 1937.
It might have been expected that this lad from a two-up-two-down terrace in the Nottingham backstreets would follow in the footsteps of his father and grandfather, both of whom were employed by Players, the local cigarette manufacturer.
But there was an academic side to Clifford, and in 1958 he graduated from Nottingham University with a degree in Russian Studies.
A year later, Clifford was a qualified teacher, a career which would take him and his bride Shirley briefly to Cheshire before settling in Northamptonshire.
Clifford’s academic studies never ceased, and in 1984 he was awarded a master’s degree in Education by Nottingham University.
Away from the classroom, Clifford further utilised his teaching skills to coach badminton, for many years guiding players up to county level.
The closure of Kettering Grammar School in 1993 heralded a new chapter in Clifford’s life.
Always willing to expand his horizons, he learned computing through the Open University and went on to teach the subject at Northampton College.
In 2003, in recognition of his studies, the Open University awarded Clifford a Science Degree, making him that rare breed: a Bachelor of both the Arts and Sciences.
Not known for his small talk, Clifford often wore a stern, teacher’s exterior, but underneath there was warmth, a kind heart and a keen sense of humour; and he was quietly influential – with two generations of his family embarking on careers in the teaching profession.
Clifford passed away in September 2021, leaving three children and seven grandchildren.
Obituary kindly supplied by Clifford's son Robert Brown.
Patricia Bryant (née Eden), Agriculture/Horticulture - December 2023
Alan Charlton, French and German - 28 June 2022
John Clasper, Pharmacy - 7 December 2011
Robert (Bob) Cocker, Industrial Economics - 8 October 2021
John Dinnage, Electrical Engineering - 2012
James Douglas, Mechanical Engineering - July 2009
Elizabeth (Liz / Bet) Fearnley (née Lloyd), Mathematics - 12 January 2019
I'm saddened to tell you that on Sunday 12 January 2019 my beloved Wife died.
She was Bet to me, but Liz to many who knew her during her university days.
Besides studying Maths, she was a member of the Union Exec for her entire time at Nottingham and a correspondingly prominent member of the Debating Society).
We had 5 children (Robert, our middle son studied maths at Nottingham in the early 1980s) and they kindly produced 14 grandchildren for us (four boys and ten girls, three of whom read some rather lovely poems at the service).
Obituary information kindly supplied by Bill (aka "Fuzz") Fearnley - Mathematics , 1956
Andrew Gerard Foster, Law - 3 February 2013
Alan Foulkes, English Studies and Philosophy - 29 November 2012
Colin Freshney, Sociology
Dr John Foster, Pharmacy - 28 November 2019
Mary Gathercole, French and English - 2012
Professor Barry Garner, Geography/Economics - 17 June 2018
Frederick Gillott, Mechanical Engineering - 12 May 2010
Stuart Goold, Electrical Engineering - 2019
Professor Timothy Gray, Botany - 21 March 2018
Barbara Harding, French - 3 September 2011
Peter Harris, Agriculture and Microbiology - 2012
Christine Harrison (née Stone), Social Administration - 29 December 2018
Simon Hill, Botany - 29 December 2008
Ruth Gillian (Jill) Hoad (née Wright), English - 7 December 2023
Ian Hogg, History - 12 February 2022
Michael Hooton, Electrical Engineering - 11 February 2020
Mike had an interesting electrical engineering career - he was an electrical design engineer at Drakelow, Didcot, Rugeley B and Hinkley B generating stations in the UK before moving to Canada where he was senior electrical engineer at Nanticoke Ontario g.s.
and Pickering nuclear station.
In British Columbia, he was the senior electrical engineer on the Hat Creek Power Project and the design consultant on a Skytrain substation in Vancouver.
In Nova Scotia he was the design consultant on Trenton 6 and senior electrical engineer at Point Aconi generating stations.
In east & West Java Indonesia he designed 2x400mw and 3x600mw coal fired stations.
In Nantong China he was the lead electrial engineer on 2x250mw coal fired stations.
He leaves his wife Brenda in Torquay Devon, his sister in Leverington Cambridgeshire, 2 sons, 6 grandchildren and 1 great-grandchild in British Columbia, an aunt and numerous cousins in the UK plus many friends around the world.
He had many fond memories of his years at Nottingham University.
Obituary information kindly supplied by wife Brenda
Michael Hughes, Electrical Engineering
Dr Hiroo Inokuchi, Chemistry - 20 March 2014
David A Jeffrey, Law - 2 April 2008
Brian Kenderdine, Agriculture/Horticulture - 8 april 2024
Christine Kennett (née Lakin), English - 16 August 2022
Dr Richard Langdale-Smith, Chemistry - 27 February 2012
Completing his PhD in 1962, Richard took up a post doctoral fellowship at the University of Illinois, Champaign Urbana.
On completion of his fellowship, Richard joined Union Carbide in Charleston, West Virginia, working in pharmaceutical research.
It was an area he enjoyed and while there, produced papers and a patent.
However, funding was slashed and many researchers were made redundant.
Richard was offered a position working in "plastics" which was not a pathway he wished to pursue and so decided to change careers.
He was one of 40 postgraduate students to be accepted, in 1970, into the new and innovative three year medical program at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario.
Problem based learning and early exposure to patients were emphasised.
On graduation and completion of his family medicine training, Richard joined a fellow graduate in urban practice in Hamilton before seeking broader and more challenging experiences in a small logging town in British Columbia.
Moving to Australia with his Australian wife, Gill, he joined a four person practice in Leeton, NSW where he practised for 15 years before moving to Canberra in 1994.
In Canberra he worked as a civilian medical practitioner for the Australian military.
Throughout his medical career, teaching and researching continued to be important for Richard as was involvement in the Family Medicine Program.
He had a strong commitment to keeping his skills and knowledge relevant and current, and was committed to continuing professional education.
Obituary kindly supplied by Richard's wife Gill Langdale-Smith.
Robert Lawford, Law
Harold Leach, Law
George Longbottom, Agriculture/Horticulture
Dr David Lyon , Politics - March 2023
Dr John Anthony Manning, Chemistry – 19 November 2018
Colin McCarthy, Industrial Economics - 2011
Harry McQuillan, Geology - 7 June 2021
John Morgan, Metallurgy - 2011
Susan Morgan-Thomas, Social Administration - 21 September 2020
Peter Morris, Chemistry - 2 February 2011
Emeritus Professor Owen Morgan, French - 1 September 2010
Frank Musgrove, Education - 29 August 2011
Patricia Elizabeth Norton, Agriculture/Horticulture
Gwyneth Osborn (née Johnson), English - 7 February 2018
Professor Robert (Bob) Parfitt, Pharmacy - 6 February 2024
Robert Thomas Parfitt, Emeritus Professor, died suddenly on 6 February 2024, aged 87.
He is survived by wife Judith and two daughters with families.
Robert (Bob) entered Nottingham University with a State and Open Scholarship and graduated with B.Pharm in 1958, then a year apprenticeship at Glaxo Laboratories.
This was followed by a PhD in Chemical Carcinogenesis again at Nottingham.
Overseas he lectured at Queensland University, then moving to The National Institutes of Health in Washington DC working on Opioid Analgesics.
Next it was Strathclyde University to lecture and establish a Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Laboratory.
After that, it was a move to Pfizer Research Ltd designing drugs, followed by Drug Discovery at Nicholas International.
In 1975 he was appointed Professor of Pharmacy and Pharmacology at The University of Bath.
His co-authored book Opioid Analgesics was published in 1986.
In 1984 he became Principal of Canberra College of Advanced Education, now Canberra University; in 1987 he was appointed Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Research, at University of Western Australia.
In Perth he was Chairman of the annual Festival of Perth.
Finally, Bob was the founding Principal of University College Stockton, the first new build to be established in the UK for over 20 years.
He continued to consult for various Universities, Commissions and Councils, undertook much research into the life of Mozart and infidelities of wife Constanze, plus local history - The Book of South Stoke with Midford.
Obituary kindly supplied by Robert's wife, Judith.
Dr W.
N.
(Bill) Pitkethly, Pharmacy - 29 July 2017
Born in Newcastle, Bill Pitkethly appeared in the 1955 intake of the School of Pharmacy as the prototype Geordie.
Bluff, reliable, always cheerful, he was a popular member of the year, particularly prominent in the annual Lake Battle against the Engineers, and the Beer Race around the University campus.
Following graduation he returned to the North East where he taught chemistry before moving to a career post in academia at Sunderland, where he completed his PhD, later moving into the NHS, to build a Quality Control function.
He completed his working life with a spell in Community Pharmacy combined with undertaking inspection and consultancy work, eventually retiring to spend time with the family and grandchildren he loved.
He passed away on July 29th 2017.
Obituary kindly supplied by Bill's classmates, John Bell and Professor Bob Parfitt
Arthur Ridings, Physics - 3 May 2017
Joseph John Salmon, Physics - October 2022
Catherine Shonubi (née Senkatuka), Geography - 1970
Christopher Smith, Law
Christopher Southall, Agriculture/Horticulture - December 2020
Susanne Stoessl, Economics - October 2013
Online obituaries at The Guardian and Find Your Feet
Dudley Walker, Law - 26 January 2023
A very happy student and lifelong supporter of the University.
Kindly supplied by Dudley's daughter.
Anthony Wright, Geology - 29 July 2011
The death occurred on 29 July 2011 of Professor Anthony David Wright.
He was aged 77.
Tony, as he was known to many, graduated from Nottingham University in 1958 with a First Class Honours degree in Geology.Thereafter, his distinguished academic career was spent at Queen's University, Belfast.
He began as Research Assistant and then through the ranks of Lecturer and Reader, became Head of the Geology Department (1974-1990) and Professor (1974-1998) He enjoyed a worldwide reputation as an expert in the study of fossil brachiopods and it was his contribution to brachiopod research which the University of Nottingham recognised in July this year by conferring on him the degree of Doctor of Science.
Sadly, Tony was unable to receive the degree in person because of ill health.
Obituary kindly supplied by a friend of Tony's, Brian Playle.
John Westley, Chemistry - 2011
John William Westley 75, died December 12, 2011, at his home in Petaluma, California, after a brave and lengthy battle with pancreatic cancer.
Westley was born on February 5, 1936, in the village of Sawston, seven miles south of Cambridge, England.
He was the youngest child of Harold Sydney Westley and Daisy Victoria Sorrell.
At the time of his birth, his brother Ivan Sydney was 11 years old and his sister Elma was 9.
As a young man, he was an excellent student and cricket player.
He attended, on scholarships, the Cambridgeshire High School for Boys and the University of Nottingham.
He received his B.Sc.
degree in chemistry with First Class Honors and the Jesse Boot Prize in 1958, and his Ph.D.
degree in 1961, all from the University of Nottingham.
In July 1961, Dr.
Westley, his wife, Angela, and one-year-old son, Nicholas John, moved from Nottingham to Palo Alto, California.
There he worked in the Chemistry Department at Stanford University with Professor Carl Djerassi.
After a brief collaboration with J.C.
Craig at UCSF, he returned to Stanford to work on a NASA-funded project under the direction of Nobel Laureate, Joshua Lederberg, of the Genetics Department, to look for ways of detecting extraterrestrial life.
In 1964, Dr.
Westley and his wife had a second son, Peter Miles.
In 1968, Dr.
Westley and his family moved to New Jersey, where he took a job as Associate Director of the Microbiology Department of the pharmaceutical firm, Hoffman-LaRoche.
At Roche he and his department identified, solved the structures of, and biosynthesized antibiotics.
In 1972, Chao-min Liu, a microbiologist from Taiwan and the University of Wisconsin, joined Dr.
Westley at Roche.
In their retirement years, John and Chao-min agreed that their work on Polyether Antibiotics, summarized in two volumes by the publisher Marcel Decker (1976-7), were the most successful collaborations of their scientific careers.
In 1985, Dr.
Westley left Roche to join SKB, now known as Glaxo SmithKline, in King of Prussia, Pennsylvania.
There he directed a natural products group of four senior chemists and their support teams, dedicated to the isolation of compounds with potential pharmacological activity from terrestrial plants and marine organisms.
Westley had 110 publications and was awarded 32 patents during the course of his career.
Some of the compounds patented improve cardiovascular function and one has potential as an anti-obesity agent.
During a summer tennis clinic at Glaxo in 1992, Dr.
Westley met a charming young lady, Camille Dixon.
He had always intended to retire to California, where both his sons lived.
In 1996, John persuaded Camille to move with him to Northern California.
They were married in the town of Sonoma on July 27, 2003.
Westley is survived by his wife, brother, two sons, their wives, Monica and Lisa, and four grandchildren, Aidan, Allison, Sydney, and Alexandra.
John's love of life, work, family, and friends will be sorely missed by all who knew him.
Friends are invited to attend a memorial service Tuesday, December 20th at Adobe Creek Funeral Home 331 Lakeville St., Petaluma, CA 94952.
707-789-9000.
Online condolences may be made at adobecreekfuneralhome.com .
Published in San Francisco Chronicle on December 18, 2011
David Allen, Animal Physiology - 2007
Robert Banham, Theology
Margaret Bennett (née Scott), French & Spanish
Maurice Brown, Mechanical Engineering
John Bundy, Chemistry - 20 January 2025
Mary Burdes, Geography - 1997
Jacqueline Cameron, Pharmacy - February 2012
Philip Carr, Mathematics
David Cheetham, Physics
Kenneth Coates, Sociology and Politics - 27 June 2010
Brian Cracknell, Chemistry
David Croft, Law - 21 January 2009
James Trevor Crosby, History - 23 January 1996
Colin Dean, Physics - 20 May 2021
After graduating from Nottingham, Colin joined the Falkland Islands Dependencies survey ( Now British Antarctic Survey) and spent two years doing scientific research at their Halley Bay base and then at the Scott Polar Research Institute.
He spent his later career, however, in the developing computer industry, working for ICT/ICL and later Burroughs/ Sperry.
Through his work on large computer systems Colin became involved and spent his later years working in the banking industry in South Africa and developing computer applications therein.
His other major interest was in Military History, and he was Chairman of the South African Military History Society for some years.
Obituary kindly supplied by Colin's wife Marjorie Dean.
HH Michael Dean, Law - December 2021
After graduating with a Ist Class honours in law from Nottingham, in 1968 Michael became a member of commercial chambers, 7 Kings Bench Walk, London.
In 1981 he was appointed Queens Council and worked mainly on disputes between commercial shipping companies.
Then, in 1992 he accepted an invitation to the bench and served as sitting Judge, Central London County Court, High Court and Queens Bench.
He retired in 2010.
His only son, Michael Ross Dean, graduated from Nottingham in 2013.
Obituary kindly supplied by Michael's wife, Jane.
Philip Simon Doughty, Geology - 14 January 2013
John Fisher, English - 26 February 2014
Peter Fey, French
John Game, Social Administration - 18 July 2008
John Golby, History - 21 February 2009
Francis Green, Animal Husbandry/Applied Biochemistry - August 2024
John Harle, Geography - February 2020
David Harris, English - 27 November 2010
Kathleen Harris (née Smith), Agriculture/Microbiology - 6 January 2021
Richard Harvey, Geography - 26 December 2022
Fred Hepburn, Physics
Peter Hiscock, Physics - 13 November 2015
William (Bill) Hoad, Education
Graham Hockley, Economics - 22 March 2017
John Holden, Chemistry/Zoology - 28 June 2010
William Holden, Pharmacy
Dr John Hopkinson, Agriculture/Botany - 28 August 2023
Michael Hudson, Chemistry - 28 July 2003
Paul Hunt, Mathematics - 11 November 2012
George Hurd, Electrical Engineering - February 2013
Dr Thomas Hyde, Civil Engineering - 22 December 2016
Judith Jackson (née Hare), English - 13 January 2023
Duncan Jeffray, Botany - 1 February 2018
The Exmoor Society is deeply saddened to hear of the sudden death of Dr Duncan Jeffray on 1 February 2018.
He joined The Exmoor Society in 2007, soon after his move to Minehead following his retirement from Warwick University.
He was co-opted on to the Executive in 2010 and became Vice Chairman in 2015.
Duncan has played a leading role in the Society, particularly in relation to planning where he meticulously researched all the sites prior to his detailed recommendations to Trustees.
Obituary kindly supplied by Exmoor Society.
Robert Kirkpatrick, Education - 17 December 2005
Brian Lace, History
Robert Leslie, Chemistry - 1 January 2014
John Lloyd, Mechanical Engineering - 10 June 2015
Pamela Lloyd (née Hudson), French and Spanish - January 2016
Pamela graduated in 1959 in French and Spanish and taught both, together with Latin, ending up in Bablake School in Coventry.
She was also deeply involved in the running of the school’s French annex in Southern Brittany.
We had two children, Anna, who graduated in French and Italian, and Jonathan, a mathematician and now senior financial officer for an Irish company.
Anna taught for twenty years and is now in hotel events management.
We kept in touch with about 20 Nottingham graduates, meeting assorted members twice a year at various hotels in Britain, and had close contact with 10.
At her funeral over 100 colleagues, friends and ex-graduates came from many parts of the country.
We had many contacts with France, she arranged school exchanges and family ones, many such groups are still in contact.
She was well regarded by many people and I have had several hundred letters from friends and ex-pupils, many expressing gratitude for the care she took in her work.
Many said they have become linguists because of her influence.
Obituary kindly supplied by Pamela’s husband, Melvyn Lloyd (Chemistry 1959)
Howard Loughlin, Chemistry/Metallurgy - 2009
Brian Moss OBE, Mechanical Engineering - 2016
Colin Munday, Industrial Economics - August 2023
Robin Mundy, Geography - 5 May 2018
Alfred Nash, Theology - 1991
Alfred Victor John Nash died 1991.
He became an ordained minister in the Congregational Church and worked until a few days before his death.
Much missed.
Obituary kindly supplied by Alfred's daughter, Chris.
Edward Nesom, Grouped Subjects
Joan Newiss, Slavonic Studies - 9 December 2022
Janet Norbury (née Searle), Economic and Social History
Christine "Chris" Olende (née Knell), Botany - 9 November 2023
In the early 1960s, Chris went to the University of Western Ontario, London, where she got an MSc.
And where she met her future husband, a Kenyan student Shem Arungu Olende, got married and her eldest son was born.
They moved to London, and she taught at a convent school, while her husband studied.
Their second son was born, and they moved to Nairobi.
A third son was born during a spell back in Britain.
At the beginning of the 1970s the marriage broke up and Chris returned to London with the three boys.
They lived in Woodford and Chris was involved in establishing the local playgroup network for mothers with young children.
She taught English as a second language in evening classes and went on to become a biology teacher at Braeside school in Buckhurst Hill.
In 1978 the they moved to Walthamstow, where she would stay for the rest of her life.
When the boys had left school, she expanded her interests and activities, working as allotment officer for Waltham Forest council (overseeing sites where urban people could grow vegetables and other plants).
She kept her own allotments, at one time growing vegetables on three.
She became active in the environmental movement, through the Green party and various other organisations.
She returned to her love for classical music and trad jazz, going dancing once or twice a week into her eighties.
She became well known around Walthamstow and was busy in the area long after her retirement, right up until the onset of the Covid pandemic and her failing health in the past couple of years.
She kept in touch with friends from throughout her life and she will be sorely missed by friends and family alike.
Obituary kindly supplied by fellow graduate, Mike Richadson.
Raymond Page, English - 10 March 2012
Roger Partridge, Agriculture/Horticulture - 2012
Cecil Parnell, Physics - 6 February 2009
Roger Parkes, Mechanical Engineering - 20 October 2012
Anthony Rawlinson, Industrial Economics - August 2010
Jean Reeve (née Alexander), Education - August 2015
Alan Rice, Mechanical Engineering - 27 November 2018
Alan Rice passed away on Tuesday 27th November 2018 at home with his family by his side.
A loving husband, father and grandfather.
He will be sadly missed by all his loving family and friends.
Alan Rice graduated in 1959 in Mechanical Engineering and worked for many years as a management consultant at PA Consulting.
He was later Director of his own company specialising in the design and production of generators and alternators and also worked closely with the University of Leicester on various engineering projects.
Alan married Maria Rice, who was also at Nottingham University graduating in 1959 in Biology.
They had three children, Anielka, who graduated in Botany, mother to three granddaughters, Eliza, Ellen and Alice; James, who graduated in Electrical Engineering, a hedge fund manager and father to grandson William and granddaughter Georgia; and Halina, who graduated in Philosophy and Theology, a director of ecommerce.
In the last two decades Alan looked after Maria, stoically and unstintingly – with wit and good humour.
Alan and Maria kept in touch with a group of friends formed at Nottingham University - in more recent years meeting annually in the Lake District, sharing fond memories of their time at Nottingham.
Alan was a traditionalist in many regards and forthright with his opinions; he would more than frequently offer his viewpoint on an issue whether it contradicted those around him or not.
He always stood for what he believed in.
He loved to shock, amuse, and he often saw things differently, unconventionally.
He cherished seeing the world through his own very unique perspective.
And that also meant you could rely on him for a distinctive and independent viewpoint.
He was buried at Kirk Hallam and the service was attended by many friends from all aspects of his life.
He was well respected and a guiding figure to many of those he met.
Alan Rice : Loyal and Stoic, Capable and intelligent, Loving, And always funny.
Obituary kindly supplied by Alan's daughter, Halina
Elizabeth (Betty) Roberts (née Coe), Law - 20 June 2019
Peter Roberts, Politics - 26 May 2015
Alan Rothwell, German - February 2018
Christina Swales (née Edwards), Botany - 16 March 2025
Professor Sheung Tam, Chemistry - 1 January 2021
David John Thirkall, Agriculture/Horticulture - 25 August 2009
Gerald Toogood, Chemistry - 30 November 2020
For a full obituary please see ERB&Good
Marian Tyacke (née Philip), English - 8 January 2009
Sandra Wilson (née Proud), Pharmacy - 2011
Michael Witcomb, Geography/Economic Social History - 18 December 2010
Richard Radley, Agriculture/Horticulture - 12 October 2011
Joy Utting, Theology - 12 December 2011
Dr Alan Walker, Chemistry - 14 October 2019
Michael Ward, Pharmacy - 19 July 2019
Vera Theresa Wass, Pharmacy - 28 June 2014
Michael Wright, Industrial Economics
Dr Edwin Willis, Chemistry - 21 December 2016
Eric Dalgleish, Engineering - October 2008
John Dawes, Physics - 22 August 2007
Mary Fryer (née Cottrell), German - 2013
Arthur Heggs, English
Stanley Middleton, English - 25 July 2009
Jack Vennart, Physics - 14 May 2010
Norman Labrum, Physics - 17 June 2011
Donald Moss, Chemistry - 23 February 2017
Harry Smith, Chemistry - 10 December 2011
Dr Norman Todd, Pharmacy - 30 January 2019
For a full obituary, please see The Nottingham Post
Donald Ager, Geography - 28 July 2006
George Baines, Agriculture/Horticulture - 6 January 2014
Thomas (Henry) Barton, Agriculture
It is with great sadness that I inform you of the death of my father who was a student at the Midland Agricultural College at Sutton Bonnington 1941-43.
Henry Was 93 and died peacefully at his home in West Leake, just a couple of miles from Sutton Bonnington.
He loved his time at Sutton Bonnington, during the war, and it is amazing to think that he started there at the age of 16 and achieved his Diploma in Agriculture when he was 18.
His family had a farm on the edge of Nottingham where they had a herd of Pedigree Ayrshire Dairy cattle.
After college father ran the family farm before starting a bus tour company and then in 1948 a vehicle repair business.
The vehicle business grew to now employ 650 people.
He was Chairman of his family bus business which was one of the biggest in Europe before it was sold in the mid 1980s.
At West Leake, where he lived since the early 1960s, he had a herd of pedigree Aberdeen Angus cattle on his 70 acres of land.
Latterly, the farm has mainly kept sheep and ponies.
He did a lot to keep the character of the village by planting hundreds of trees and resisting development.
Obituary kindly supplied by Henry's son, Tom
Mary Brogan (née Halliday), Geography - 23 January 2012
Bernard Crossland, Mechanical Engineering - January 2011
Clifford Marsland, Pharmacy
Lilian Brabben - 22 August 2012
Frank Cooper, Chemistry - 1997
Marion Davie (née Smith), Medieval and Modern History - 28 February 2013
Hilda Garrett, English
William Kenyon, Pharmacy - 22 September 2011
Andrew Marris, Physics - 7 September 2005
Kenneth Marsh, Chemistry
John Prentice, Geology - January 2006
Ivor Richmond, Physics
Dr Stewart Adams OBE, Pharmacy - 30 January 2019
For a full obituary, please see School of Pharmacy
Raymond Adlington, Physics
Dr George Gamlen, Chemistry, Physics and Mathematics - 2022
Patricia Lawton (née Randall), Geography - 14 November 2013
Alan MacDonald, Engineering - 2 October 2008
Ian Merry, Electrical Engineering/Engineering/C T - 18 April 2007
Ian William Merry was born at Ilkeston in 1926, the younger son of Scots parents, and he died at St Affrique, France, on 18 April 2007, just short of his 81st birthday.
Ian received his secondary education at Nottingham High School, and came up to University College, Nottingham in 1943.
He specialised in Electrical Engineering and Electronics, graduating with the London external B.Sc.(Engineering) degree in 1945.
But while at College, he also found time for 'cultural' activities, acting in Dram.
Soc.
productions and editing the Gong magazine.
Another keen interest of his was music, as a violinist during his school years, and as a singer throughout his life.
After UCN Ian joined the Royal Navy where he served for two years as a commissioned offiicer.
His next post was with the BBC Research Department, working on the magnetic recording of television signals, a technique then in its infancy.
After four years there, he joined the London laboratory of Ferranti Ltd, taking part in the development of the Pegasus computer, one of the most innovative and successful computers of its day.
One model is still exhibited and in working order at London's Science Museum.
Ian's part in this work was mainly in the development of the magnetic drum store, the forerunner of today's 'hard discs'.
Later, he worked for several well-known companies, including IBM, Solartron, English Electric and ICL, and during the latter part of his career, was concerned with developing computer systems for foreign governments.
In 1947 Ian married his College friend, Rosemary Calder, and they had one daughter who is now a retired GP.
They lived in Hampshire for much of their married life, but on Ian's retirement they moved to Suffolk to be nearer to other members of Rosemary's family.
Rosemary died in June 2004, and following her death, and despite looming health problems, Ian decided to go and live in the Aveyron region of France, an area that he and Rosemary had found especially attractive.
He found a house there in the village of Montlaur, near St Affrique, completely renovated it, and moved in late in 2005.
He settled well there, making good friends, and went a long way towards recapturing the intellectual lifestyle of his younger days.
It is sad that he was not able to enjoy it for longer.
Old friends remember Ian as 'clever, kind and good company'.
In his own words, he had 'a wonderful life'.
Obituary kindly supplied by Dr M Taub (Engineering 1945) and Ian's daughter.
James Parsons, Medicine - 2011
David William Petchey, Physics - 10 June 2013
Joy Rolinson, Zoology - 15 October 2015
Eunice Isabel Anne Parker (née O'Sullivan), Pharmacy - 8 January 2024
Eunice Parker (née O'Sullivan) had a habit of breaking conventions.
Not only did she become one of Britain’s leading pharmacists, but qualified at a time when 90% of the profession was male — she also drove to work on a Lambretta scooter decades before they became fashionable.
Unwaveringly positive and fiercely independent, Eunice’s success was drawn from her conviction that she could achieve whatever she wanted.
She was, in other words, the perfect inspiration for young women hoping to become scientists.
Eunice’s father, after seeing how his sister was forced to give up her life to care for their parents, was adamant that his two daughters would each have careers and not be dependent on anyone.
His first Dierdre, became a Headteacher, and Eunice became Chief Pharmacist at the King Edward VII Hospital in Marylebone — the hospital used by the Royal family.
Perhaps surprisingly, Eunice’s path to success started when she left school aged 16 to join Boots the Chemists as an apprentice.
She gave all her pay to her mother, who put it away so she could one day afford to go to what was known as “Jesse Boot’s University”, now Nottingham University.
There, Eunice studied for a diploma in pharmacy and qualified in 1945.
She often spoke of having “the time of her life” at university, enjoying the attention that came with being one of the few women on campus.
After graduating, she worked for Boots in different parts of England and became a hospital pharmacist.
In 1947, she married Donald Parker, a mechanical research engineer.
Two years later, she gave birth to her first child, Hugh.
But motherhood didn’t dent her ambition.
During the 1950s, Eunice moved to Leavesden Green Psychiatric Hospital, where she became known for driving into work on a Lambretta scooter.
She had two more children: Barbara in 1951 and Sheila in 1952.
Once again, she continued to balance her thriving career with family life.
After a spell at Amersham General Hospital, she landed her Chief Pharmacist job at King Edward VII Hospital in Marylebone, London, in the late 1960s.
As a result, she met members of royalty — both in the hospital and when she attended one of the late Queen Mother’s Garden parties.
Despite her strong attachment to her Irish roots, she took great pride in her royal connections.
Finally, after many years at the King Edward VII, she returned to the NHS and became Chief Pharmacist for Wexham Park Hospital and the surrounding area.
For Eunice, however, pursuing a successful career and raising family still wasn’t enough.
While working full-time as a senior pharmacist, she also studied jewellery-making, and even obtained a licence to buy gold so she could craft gold jewellery.
She also made all her clothes throughout her life, designing and crafting beautiful suits, coats, evening dresses, and everyday clothes.
As she entered her 60s, retirement was far from a priority for Eunice.
Instead, she moved to Dorchester, Dorset, to work for various retail chemists.
Finally, she became a locum in the surrounding area, only retiring as a pharmacist once she was into her 70s.
However, even then, she did not stop working.
In Dorset, she became a volunteer guide at Parnham House, the site of Craftsmen in Wood, where Viscount Linley studied.
When she moved to Hertfordshire in the 1990s, she joined the local Community Health Trust as a Trustee.
A decade later, she became a guide at Lord Leycester Hospital after moving to Warwick.
Even in her 90s, she made clothes and toys for her great-grandchildren and local charity shops.
During her final decade, Eunice spent much of her time laughing, her infectious smile often the first thing you saw when she looked at you.
And yet, until the end, she retained her power to wither with strong words anyone who deserved it.
She was joyful but candid; tender-hearted but fair.
Eunice leaves behind children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren, nieces, nephews and friends who miss her very much — as well as a legacy they will never forget.
Obituary kindly supplied by Eunice's daughter, Sheila Lewis.
Eileen Savage (née Marsden), Geography - 14 November 2013
Daniel (Matt) Taub, Electrical Engineering – 19 December 2021
Daniel Matthew (Matt) Taub was born in 1926, the younger son of Rosa and Jimmy Taub, and he died in Winchester, Hampshire on 19 December 2021, aged 95.
Matt received his secondary education mostly in Nottingham, and came up to University College, Nottingham in 1942 or 1943 graduating with the London external B.Sc.(Engineering) degree in 1945.
Due to poor eyesight, he was exempted from National Service, and went to Jesus College, Cambridge as a postgraduate student, being awarded an M.Sc.
in 1950.
He was later awarded a Ph.D., in 1982 on the strength of his published papers.
His early career included work for the Ericsson Telephone Company in Beeston, Nottingham and LEO computers, followed by a move to IBM Hursley in 1957, from where he retired in 1987 - and he stayed in Winchester for the rest of his life.
Throughout his career he was involved in research on various aspects of computing hardware, including magnetic core logic circuits and the design of microcomputer bus systems.
Matt had a wide range of interests, including playing flute and bassoon and, towards the end of his life, he helped regularly as an unpaid teaching assistant in a Primary School near where he lived.
His first marriage was to Vera Martynoff in 1958 followed, after the birth of their son, by her death at the age of 37.
His second marriage was to Mildred Griffiths, who survives him.
Obituary kindly supplied by Matt's son, Nick Taub.
Eric Thompson, Engineering - August 2019
Ida Sutton, History
Norman West, Pharmacy
Clifford Willis, Pharmacy - 2020
Robert Anderson, Agriculture - 1 October 2007
Patricia Brown (née Hollingworth), Physics - 13 May 2019
Sheila Carson, Social Studies - 2009
George Clayton, Physics - 31 September 2013
Peter Coates, Agriculture - 27 March 2017
Kathleen Davenport (née Buckley), Agriculture/Horticulture – 18 June 2022
Patricia Ford (née Simmons), Mathematics – 15 May 2022
Helen Frost, French
Peter Lambert, Agriculture/Horticulture - July 2013
Richard Mayne, Engineering - 2020
John Pepper, Agriculture
Sidney Brown, Physics - 23 March 2010
Edith Crompton (née Ackroyd), Pharmacy - 28 December 2005
Kenneth Fellowes, Chemistry - 18 June 2011
Joan Fisher (née Edwards), Physics
Maurice Goldhill, Pharmacy
Thomas Heyes, Chemistry - 14 October 2009
George Irons, Physics - 17 May 2009
Kathleen (Joyce) Kent (née Tahnay), English - 17 February 2006
Patricia Kimmons, English - November 2008
Thomas Martin, General Practice - 5 April 2008
Dr George Rolinson, Botany - 8 December 2016
John Shaw, Chemistry - December 2012
Geoffrey Tibbs, Chemistry - January 2012
Corinne Brant, Agriculture/Horticulture
David Bell, Chemistry - 8 June 2018
Herbert Eisner, Physics - 28 June 2011
Joseph Flower, Engineering
Shirley Hoskins, French - 31 December 2010
Anthony Charles Krarup, Civil Engineering - 25 December 2012
Donald Litherland, Chemistry - 17 July 2009
James Parkinson, Pharmacy - 6 September 2007
Bernard Roberts, Physics - 20 January 1969
Bernard obtained his degree at Nottingham University College in 1948 before working for 2 years at GKN, Wolverhampton in lieu of national service.
He then moved to Elliott Bros (London) Ltd Research laboratories in Borehamwood, Herts, where he worked on various projects including an early "Pea Weigher" for Birds Eye frozen peas at Lowestoft, and on some vacuum work.
In 1958 he moved to the Technical Development dept of BNS at Pontypool, S Wales, and was employed on various aspects of nylon fabrics until the time of his death in an air crash close to Yeadon (now Leeds-Bradford) Airport, Yorkshire on 20th January 1969.
Ever since University he maintained his marksmanship having learnt to shoot at University, and going on to represent the University with Col Shaw at Bisley.
Dad continued this love of shooting going on to run the Monmouthshire Rifle Association.
Obituary kindly supplied by Bernard's son Neil Roberts.
Peggy Rumbol (née McConville), English - 30 May 2006
Moran Shaw (Ratcliffe), French - 19 March 2016
Maurice Standeven, French - 24 September 2008
Isobel Trueman, French - 20 February 2007
Frances (Peggy) Turner (née Roberts), Social Science - 2010
Peter Whitaker, Physics - 17 December 2009
Maurice Adams, Agriculture - 9 September 2019
Allan Alsbury, Chemistry - 11 May 2015
Arthur Burdett, Civil Engineering - 16 March 2006
Raymond Clarke, Applied Social Science - 4 March 2010
Raymond Collard, Pharmacy - 8 November 2013
Constance Cooke (née Barratt)
Cyril Davies, Mining Engineering - 8 February 2013
Desmond Dean, Pharmacy - 24 July 2010
Josephine Egerton (née Buffy), History - June 2012
Joseph Gould
Pamela Harborow (née Richardson), Geography - 2015
Frank Harris, Combined Studies - 13 December 2010
Henry (Harry) Heath MBE, Pharmacy
Margaret Hodgson (née White), French
Deryck Ingall, English
Yat Sun Lau, Civil Engineering - 3 November 2011
John Mainwood, Botany - 28 September 2016
Former botany graduate and respected company director has passed away after a short illness aged 88.
A former captain of the debating team, John gained a BSc in botany in 1949 and spent a further two years as a research scholar.
As part of his involvement with the debating society, John fondly recalls an overnight stay at the family home of Richard and David Attenborough whose father was principal at University College, Leicester.
After his five years at Nottingham, he spent the next three years in national service as Flying Officer at RAF Middle Wallop and later as camp commander at RAF Trimley Heath.
In January 1953 he was called into action at the devastating floods and storms in Felixstowe.
On leaving the RAF he went on to work for Fisons, becoming a director for the overseas subsidiary at the age of 38.
In the early 1970s he moved to Guinness brewing worldwide.
As a company director, John enjoyed a career filled with meeting many interesting people and experiencing different cultures all over the world.
He will be fondly remembered by many for a life full of achievement.
Obituary kindly supplied by John's son, Julian.
J Marshall, Economics - July 2008
Joan Morgan, English - 2017
Bridget Ogden, Economics - February 2011
Francis Harry Panton, Chemistry - 8 April 2013
Timothy Potts, Engineering - March 2009
Joe Prest, French - August 2010
Charles Sharp, Law
Michael Solomon, Geology - 27 May 2009
Mike Solomon played a leading role in the development of economic geology, both in Australia and internationally.
He had numerous achievements during a highly distinguished career, which included his pioneering work with volcanic-associated deposits, which put the Mount Read volcanic arc in the lexicon of geologists around the world.
Mike had a desire to test the limits in his academic life, which often lead to new ways of thinking and advances in science.
In addition to his many and varied academic achievements, Mike will be remembered for his ability to bring geology alive and make it fun, often joining his students at social events.
Many of his students have gone on to become leading economic geologists in their own right, and they, like many others will remember him as a character, a leader, a mentor and a friend.
Obituary supplied by Mike's wife Marjorie and is an abridged version of the obituary by Ross Large that appeared in the SEG newsletter.
Alan Studd, Physics - 16 May 2016
Anthony Whitehead, Education - 25 November 2012
Dr Gerald (Wilf) Wilford, Geology - 27 January 2019
Alan Wilson, Chemistry - December 2011
Kenneth Wilson, Pharmacy - May 2013
William Woodruff, Economic History - 23 September 2008
Barbara Bloor (née Chamberlain), Geography - 29 July 2006
Leslie Norfolk, Mechanical Engineering - 25 August 2006
Philip Shaw, Chemistry - 6 April 2013
Leonard Story, Chemistry - August 2008
Charles Warr, Pharmacy
Monica Partridge (née McMain), French - 19 March 2008
Monica Alice McMain was born in Northampton in 1915.
After Northampton School for Girls she read French, with Latin as her subsidiary subject, at the University College, Nottingham, graduating in 1936.
In 1937 she was married to Maurice William (Bill) Partridge, who would hold the Jesse Boot Chair of Pharmaceutical Chemistry at Nottingham University.
Professor Monica Partridge was for many years a force to be reckoned with in the field of Slavonic studies.
Unusual among British Slavists for the vigour with which she promoted relationships with Soviet and Yugoslav colleagues from the early postwar years to the late 1970s, she was one of the very few Western scholars in her field to receive an honorary doctorate from a Soviet university and to be decorated by the Yugoslav Government.
From 1947 to 1980 she taught in the Department of Slavonic Studies at the University of Nottingham where, in 1967, she was the first woman to be appointed to a chair.
Under her headship, the department saw a stream of academic visitors from the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia and of lectorships in Serbo-Croat and Slovene through links that she had established with the Universities of Zagreb and Ljubljana.
Her book and numerous articles on the 19th-century Russian socialist Alexander Herzen, and her Serbo-Croatian: Practical Grammar and Reader, are probably her most enduring academic legacy.
Read the full obituary in The Times.
Obituary supplied by Malcolm V.
Jones (Emeritus Professor of Russian and Slavonic Studies and former President of Convocation)
1937
Ronald Downing Baker, English
Ronald Gollin, Chemistry
John Tearle, Physics - June 2009
Harold Dibben, Chemistry - 1 November 2015
Frank Chettle, Mathematics - 1 December 2010
During the war, Frank was a meteorological officer in the RAF and then became a maths teacher.
He was a headteacher at Tapton House in Chesterfield, Derbyshire from 1959 until 1965 when he became headteacher at the County High School in Redditch, Worcestershire until retirement.
After retirement, he had various part time jobs all linked to education.
Obituary kindly supplied by Frank's daughter, Helen.
William Gregory, Chemistry - 2010
Samual Rutherford, Geography
Professor David Baguley, Hearing Sciences - 2022
Professor Barry Azzopardi, Chemical Engineering - 22 May 2017
Professor Nicholas Besley, Theoretical Chemistry - 27 June 2021
Emeritus Professor Martin Binks, Entrepreneurial Development - 13 January 2022
Dr Erica Brasil, Portugese - 2022
Professor Ronald (Ron) Carter, English - 12 September 2018
For a full obituary please see the School of English
Dr James (Jim) Charles, Archaeometallurgy - 13 November 2017
For a full obituary please see news item via St John's, Cambridge
Professor John Cole, Geography - 1 April 2020
Professor Robert (Bob) Cundall, Physical Chemistry - 2020
The Rt Hon Baroness Brenda Dean, Council Member / Honorary Graduate - 13 March 2018
For a full obituary please see University press release, March 2018
R D S Fielden, Adult Education - 8 December 2017
Dr Brian Elliot, Geology - 22 April 2017
Professor Yang Fujia - 17 July 2022
For a full obituary, please see University press release
Professor Richard (Dick) Geary, Modern History - 21 February 2021
Professor John (Tim) Hawthorne, Medicine - 17 July 2019
Professor Wilfred (Wilf) B Heginbotham, Production Engineering - October 2017
Wilfred Heginbotham entered academic life after serving an apprenticeship as a pattern maker.
He never lost the practical approach to problems which his apprenticeship had given him.
Before applying for the post at The University of Nottingham he won a scholarship to study at UMIST (now part of the University of Manchester) where he obtained a BSc, an MSc and a PhD.
His future wife, Marjorie, typed his PhD thesis and he insisted on completing the PhD before they married.
The thesis, on metal-cutting, was very short, about 40 pages, by later standards and was a model of conciseness.
The new department at Nottingham and its undergraduate degree course required a new combination of subjects to be studied and that combination was put together by him, not without some opposition from others who thought that the course should only have technological content.
The result was that the degree course also included industrial relations, business economics, accountancy, organization analysis and design, investment studies, and operational research.
Although, at that time, there were post graduate courses in production engineering, the undergraduate course at Nottingham was the first in the UK.
Later this was recognised by the department adopting the new name, Manufacturing Engineering and Operations Management, so allowing the operations management discipline to develop into fabrics, pharmaceuticals, tobacco and other non-engineering products, where the manufacture did not necessarily involve engineering products but involved the engineering management of manufacture.
Wilfred Heginbotham later diversified his research interests away from metal manufacture to automatic assembly and robotics, heading up a research, development and applications unit, which produced both hardware and published papers of internationally recognised standard.
His total research output, earned him a DSc awarded by the University of Nottingham.
He took an active interest in flying and model aircraft and he held a private pilot’s licence.
Although unable to join the RAF, because his eyesight was not good enough, he had an ongoing, social relationship with the East Midlands Air Squadron until a few months before his death.
He is survived by his wife, Marjorie, daughters Janet and Judith and six grandchildren.
Obituary kindly supplied by Dr Phillip Willey
Professor Nicholas (Nick) Hewitt, French - 1 March 2019
For a full obituary please see CLAS Faculty News
Professor Christopher Johnson, French and Francophone Studies - 11 December 2019
Ian Longson, Engineering - 10 September 2018
Dr Lorna Magowan, Medical and Surgical Sciences - 2022
Lorna Magowan served the University with great dedication for 33 years.
Her experience of gaining a PhD (in 2001) under the supervision of Prof Sir John Savill, and working in his laboratory gave her personal insight into laboratory-based research, which equipped her to provide excellent support to research groups when she subsequently moved into an APM role.
She worked in various APM roles in multiple different research groups, was Operations Manager for the Division of Medical Sciences and Graduate Entry Medicine and Senior Operations Manager for the Academic Unit for Translational Medical Sciences.
Lorna was a perfectionist by nature and set herself extremely high standards.
She brought scientific rigor to bear on every task that she undertook and paid meticulous attention to detail.
She developed an encyclopaedic knowledge of all processes in the School and could be relied on to know how to manage even the most difficult problems.
She was extremely hard working and always willing to go the extra mile for the benefit of colleagues and the School.
Nevertheless, it is for the care and support she generously gave her colleagues that most people will remember Lorna.
She worked in a large number of research groups and was known and loved by many in the School and beyond.
Her first concern was always for the welfare of the people she worked with.
This was particularly evident during the past few years, dominated by the pandemic and a major restructure.
Throughout this time, she took great care to ensure that people felt supported and valued.
Outside of work Lorna was a dedicated mother to her three grown-up sons and also a talented athlete.
A lifelong swimmer, she latterly extended her skills to triathlon completing the Nottingham Outlaw Triathlon in an amazing time of 13 hours 16 minutes.
In her passing, we have lost an outstanding and a much-loved member of our team and we want to honour her memory to reflect this.
Lorna was a worthy and popular recipient of the inaugural School of Medicine award for Service Excellence in an APM role in 2021.
In memory of her dedication and outstanding service, the School of Medicine Executive Committee has therefore decided to name this award after Lorna in perpetuity.
A book of condolence is available for colleagues to record their tributes.
This is currently with Linda Allsop in B99, Medical School, but will be available at other School locations over the next month.
If colleagues would prefer to email their tributes, please send them to Linda Allsop (linda.allsop@nottingham.ac.uk) and these will be printed out and included in the condolence book.
Professor Brian Lee, Cultures Languages and Area Studies - 8 February 2017
For a full obituary please see University press release
Professor Sir Peter Mansfield FRS, Physics / Sir Peter Mansfield Magnetic Resonance Centre - 8 February 2017
For a full obituary please see University press release, February 2017
Dr Frank Molyneux, Geography - 4 August 2017
Dr John Molyneux - 21 October 2021
From Liverpool Collegiate School John Molyneux won an open scholarship to read Classics at Christ’s College, Cambridge (1951-4).
He graduated with a double first and won the Chancellor’s Medal for Greek verse composition.
His skill in Greek verse never deserted him; in retirement he could describe on a postcard in elegant classical verse a train trip in Greece.
After National Service John took up a post at the University of Sheffield in 1957 and, after a year as Visiting Associate Professor at the University of Victoria, Canada, he eventually became Head of the Classical Studies Department, before moving on in 1987 to the University of Nottingham, from which he retired in 1996.
As a staff candidate at Sheffield John wrote a doctoral dissertation on the historical background of the works of the poet Simonides.
This work, later adapted and published as a monograph (Simonides, a historical study 1992), was John’s major contribution to classical scholarship.
He also published a series of articles on Greek and Latin literature.
John, fluent in modern Greek, took as much pleasure in modern Greek life and culture as in Classics.
At Sheffield he supervised the Ph.D.
of Stelios Hadjistyllis, and the two became firm friends, which led to a joint publication, A Companion for Students of Modern Greek (2006).
John’s wife Carole died on 9th December 2021.
John and Carole are survived by their sons Neil and Howard and their families.
Obituary written by Emeritus Professor James Roy, Department of Classics and Archaeology, University of Nottingham, and kindly supplied by Jonh's son Neil Molyneux.
Professor Richard H Osborne, Geography - 22 July 2018
Dr George Parfitt, English - 17 August 2018
Professor Robert Pascall, Music - 9 June 2018
Thomas F Roylance, Mechanical Engineering – 28 July 2017
Professor Frederick "Fred" Sheard, Physics - 17 March 2018
Frederick William Sheard, who died on 17th March 2018, was a theoretical physicist who did distinguished work on the electronic and thermal properties of solids at the University of Nottingham.
He was highly regarded as a dedicated lecturer and tutor whose meticulous approach and dry humour were greatly appreciated by undergraduate and postgraduate students.
Known universally as “Fred”, he was born on 17th June 1935 in Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
He was educated at Heaton Grammar School, Newcastle and then at the University of Durham’s Newcastle campus (now the University of Newcastle), taking a first in Physics in 1956.
This was followed by postgraduate studies under the supervision of John Ziman at the University of Cambridge, where he gained his PhD in 1960 for work on the lattice conductivity of solids.
He was a member of St John’s College, Cambridge, for which he had great affection.
He was appointed Assistant Lecturer in Physics at Nottingham in 1960 and, in the following year, was given sabbatical leave to do research with Charles Kittel at the University of California, Berkeley, returning to Nottingham and promotion to Lecturer.
In later years he took sabbaticals in the laboratories of the Centre Nationale de Recherche Scientifique Grenoble (1970) and at the National Standards Laboratory, Sydney (1972-73).
He became Senior Lecturer (1972), Reader (1979), and Professor (1995).
The research during the first half of his career investigated the transport of heat in solids and at the interface between liquid helium and solids (the Kapitza resistance problem).
In the mid-1980s, his research took a new direction when the Condensed Matter Physics group at Nottingham initiated a major new research project, funded by the UK Science and Engineering Research Council, to investigate the electronic and phononic properties of multilayer semiconductor materials grown in-house by a state-of-the-art Molecular Beam Epitaxial system.
Fred’s inspiring theoretical work played a major role in the success of this project, which gained an international reputation through a series of highly-cited publications.
Of particular note were Fred’s contributions to the quantum Hall effect, electron resonant tunnelling, the dynamics of electrons in semiconductor superlattices and the interaction of electrons with phonons, which are the quanta of the atomic vibrations of the crystalline lattice.
He was also fascinated by, and contributed to, work done at Nottingham on the chaotic dynamics of electron motion at the classical-quantum interface.
Fred, who greatly enjoyed travelling, gave many invited and contributed talks at international research conferences.
He retired in 2000 and, as Emeritus Professor, visited the School of Physics and Astronomy regularly for discussions with colleagues.
As a young man, Fred eschewed traditional sports such as cricket and soccer, but was a dedicated cyclist and toured widely in the UK and Western Europe.
At Cambridge, he also took up ballroom dancing, where he met his wife Doreen, whom he married in 1960.
Fred died at the Queen's Medical Centre, Nottingham following a year-long illness, borne with patience and courage.
His memorial service was held at St Michael’s Church, Bramcote; he was buried at Beeston Cemetery.
He is survived by Doreen and their three children, Hayley, Melda and Adrian.
Obituary kindly supplied by Professor Lawrence Eaves CBE FRS
Emeritus Professor Hinrich Siefken, German - 30 June 2021
Born in Cologne in 1939, Hinrich grew up in Leverkusen.
He studied German at Tubingen University where in 1964 he gained a D.Phil for his work on the Middle High German Epic "Kudrun".
In 1967 Hinrich joined St David's College Lampeter first as Lecturer, later becoming Senior Lecturer.
In 1979 he was offered the Chair of German at Nottingham University where he published widely in the field of Modern Literature.
Over 18 years he also served as Dean of the Faculty of Arts and spent two years running the Institute of German, Austrian and Swiss affairs.
An internationally recognised specialist in the field of Die Weisse Rose (students who gave their life resisting National Socialism) he was awarded an Honorary DLitt by the university for his work on Theodore Haecker.
He retired in 1997.
Obituary kindly supplied by Hinrich's son Kris Siefken.
please see 1995 for obituary notice
Professor Sir Peter Swinnterton-Dyer, Honorary Graduate - 26 December 2018
For a full obituary, please see notices published by The Times , or Trinity College, Cambridge
Dr Stephen Wallwork, Chemistry - 22 February 2019
Distinguished Chemist, Historian of the Nottinghamshire community of Beeston, and respected member of staff at Nottingham University since 1949, has died aged 93 years.
Stephen Wallwork was born in Ashton-under-Lyne in 1925, to a bank inspector father who instilled the importance of hard work, and a mother who brought him up to be apprehensive and to expect not to succeed.
He described himself as “not very bright” but nevertheless gained entrance to Manchester Grammar School.
Although he enjoyed science, teaching his younger sister his scientific learning under the kitchen table during wartime air-raids, he initially specialised in languages, winning school prizes for French and German.
It was not until the sixth form that he moved to the sciences, when he had to cover four years’ work in two years.
Despite this, in 1943 he gained a scholarship in chemistry to Brasenose College, Oxford.
The Second World War was underway whilst Stephen was at Oxford, but he was not conscripted as the study of science was a ’reserved occupation’.
He did though take part in weekly training as part of the college’s fire-fighting team and was on duty whenever a siren sounded.
From his fourth year at Oxford, Stephen chose crystallography as his research topic which set the direction of the next 40 years of his career.
He worked alongside Dorothy Hodgkin, who became the first female (and to date only) Nobel Prize winner in chemistry, and her tutee Margaret Roberts who went on to be the first British woman Prime Minister.
After graduating with a first degree and a DPhil, Stephen moved to Nottingham University where he joined the Department of Chemistry in 1949.
He began as Assistant Lecturer and later went on to become Senior Lecturer and then Reader, with a year as Acting Head of the Physical Chemistry Department.
There being no X-Ray Crystallography research at Nottingham University, Stephen set up the X-Ray Crystallography department, starting with a budget of £1000, in a 3m2lab which also served as his office.
In the late 1940s, without computers, solving a crystal structure was a labour of love, often taking many months to obtain just a single result.
Stephen’s determination of the Alpha-Quinol structure, which he began in Oxford in 1946 under the supervision of ‘Tiny’ Powell, was successfully completed, through patience, perseverance and meticulously accurate calculations, in 1978.
Stephen was one of the first supporters of computers, sitting on the working party that introduced computer facilities to the university in the 1960s.
When one was finally installed during his time at Nottingham, it took up the whole of a large room and had the storage capacity of a tiny fraction of a mobile phone today.
Yet it vastly sped up the process of determining crystal structures.
During his time at Nottingham, Stephen published nearly 100 papers on his crystallographic research and in 1956 a book ‘Physical Chemistry for Students of Pharmacy and Biology’.
This was translated into Spanish and Japanese, with 2nd and 3rd editions published in 1960 and 1977.
Ever keen to support colleagues and young researchers in the development of their careers, Stephen wrote the book as no publication at the time presented physical chemistry in a sufficiently understandable way for non-physical scientists.
Not only was Stephen an outstanding crystallographer but he also cared deeply about the growing crystallographic community at both national and European level.
Stephen became secretary of the Crystallographic Group of the Institute of Physics, and the Chemical Crystallography Group of the Royal Society of Chemistry.
He also played a pivotal role in setting up the British Crystallographic Association in 1982, from two committees he had helped form, the European Crystallography Committee (1970) and the United Kingdom Crystallographic Committee (1969).
His crystallographic career (both paid and voluntary) spanned five decades and his contribution to the development of modern crystallography has been enormous.
Structures from crystallographers like Stephen have underpinned much of the cutting-edge chemistry that has been carried out over the past 60 years, including the identification of the structure of DNA.
In 1983, having taken early retirement, Stephen enrolled on a new post-graduate course in Local and Regional History.
Bringing his scientific mind-set and his talent for painstaking research, his dissertation involved a careful reconstruction of the sixteenth century outbreak of plague in Beeston.
He graduated in 1985, aged 60, with his second Master’s degree.
This despite struggling to obtain a pass in the subject at school and having his first university assignment returned, with the request to rewrite it as a history essay rather than a scientific paper!
Stephen brought to local history his scientific mind-set and his considerable talent for painstaking research.
His M.A.
dissertation involved a careful reconstruction of the late sixteenth century outbreak of plague in Beeston.
Demographic analysis of this type was still quite new – as indeed were computers – in historical research in the mid-1980s.
Between 1985 and 1990, Stephen worked as Statistical Assistant in the Department of History at Nottingham University.
The post involved research, helping colleagues with numerical work and teaching mathematical statistics to history students.
After his second retirement aged 65 years, this time from the history department, he continued to help voluntarily with numerical history for several years.
Having become very knowledgeable on every aspect of the local history of Beeston, Stephen was one of the authors of the two historical trails published by the Beeston Civic Society.
He continued to research and write up the local history of Beeston in retirement and became involved in the Blue Plaques scheme in the area, helping to award several plaques for places of historical interest and compiling a leaflet with information on them all.
He was also much in demand as a popular lecturer on the history of Beeston, taught a WEA class on that subject and led the research efforts when that class became a research group.
Stephen’s love of walking and cycling was hindered by his peripheral neuropathy, which he put down to exposure to hazardous chemicals in his early career.
With the decrease in physical activities, he took up watercolour painting in his 50s.
He continued to paint and pursue research (particularly local history), publishing his last historical article in late 2018 and producing his last painting for his beloved wife of nearly 65 years, Marion, just days before he died.
Stephen had a thirst for new, intellectual and technological experiences, a breadth of interests, a desire to extend his skills and to be as helpful as possible to others, and an interest in problem-solving.
He is survived by his wife, their four children and six grandchildren.
Obituary kindly supplied by Stephen’s daughter, Elizabeth
Professor Malcolm Woodbine - Agricultural Microbiology
Professor Mike Wright, Financial Studies - 2019
Please see obituary published by The Institute for Small Business and Entrepreneurship

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/alumni/support-us/volunteer.aspx:
We have short and long-term opportunities available throughout the year.
See our latest roles and new opportunities.
Find out about our roles as they become available.
Our awards celebrate volunteers who have made outstanding contributions to the university.
Offer a work placement to a Nottingham student and bring benefits to your organisation.
Find out what to expect when you become a volunteer.
Read about one of our current flagship volunteering activities, supporting students of Black heritage.
If you have any questions, our Volunteering and Advocacy team are available to help.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/alumni/support-us/our-supporters.aspx:
Our supporters make the incredible happen - helping progress life-changing research for children with brain tumours, discovering new insights into diseases like breast cancer and dementia, and helping thousands of students from all backgrounds to achieve more than they ever thought possible.
We thank everyone who supports us - in ways large and small.
Every penny given and every minute of time shared, fuels our ability to positively change the lives of people in Nottingham and around the world.
We recognise the generosity of our alumni, friends and partners through our Roll of Honours.
Those donors who have made an exceptional commitment, shown outstanding generosity or pledged a gift in their Will, are also celebrated through our recognition circles.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/alumni/news-and-events/events.aspx:
Join us for our exclusive events, digitally or in person.
We update this page with our upcoming activity, it may occasionally be empty while we put our programmes together but do come back to check!
You can find out more about events taking place elsewhere at the university on its main event listing .
Join us for a special breakfast event on Tuesday 2 September as we celebrate 50 years of Innovate UK Knowledge Transfer Partnerships.
Join us at free networking events in Accra, Johannesburg, Nairobi, Abuja, Cape Town and Lagos this September.
Join us for a crash course in how you can fully benefit from your 'Connected we thrive' alumni programme.
Join our alumni team at free networking events in New Delhi, Pune, Mumbai and Bangalore this October.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/alumni/news-and-events/connect-magazine.aspx:
The alumni magazine of the University of Nottingham.
Browse Connect Issue 10 in our new digital magazine.
You'll find all of this year's magazine articles, along with additional content, plus don't miss our interactive version of Goosey's games!
Issue 1 - 2015 | Issue 2 - 2016 | Issue 3 - 2017 | Issue 4 - 2018 | Issue 5 - 2019 | Issue 6 - 2020 | Issue 7 - 2021 | Issue 8 - 2022 | Issue 9 - 2023 | Issue 10 - 2024
NUBS Deans Professor David Park, Professor Kok Wei Khong and Professor David Goodwin reflect on the business environment and how NUBS is looking to the future.
We take a moment to explore our campuses and discover iconic locations and hidden gems.
At the Sir Peter Mansfield Imaging Centre, dedicated researchers today are continuing to develop and evolve this pioneering work to tackle new challenges.
Our recent webinar speaker Jacky Francis Walker (Counselling Studies, 1999) shares her top tips to help you reset, recharge and banish burnout.
Incorporating sustainability into teaching across the curriculum at Nottingham is helping today's students protect the future of the planet.
We find out how learning is being transformed.
To ensure future generations can unlock their potential, Jacky Hughes (Industrial Economics, 1965) has pledged to leave a gift in her will to Nottingham.
This year's Nottingham Ambition Giving Day on November 1-2 is inspired by our university motto 'A city is built on wisdom'.
So we're looking for the best piece of wisdom you learned while at Nottingham!
Four of our outstanding research fellows share their inspiration and give a little insight into what makes them tick!
Dr Marie-Claire Peakman shares her approach to embracing new opportunities and developing an innovative mindset.
Sakshi Bansal shares the values which guide her career.
Time spent at university can create passions that last a lifetime.
Peter Taylor (Chemistry, 1958) hopes to inspire today’s students with a generous – if somewhat unusual – gift.
A message for alumni from Professor Shearer West, our Vice-Chancellor and President.
Richard Munang shares a typical day in his life as Deputy Director of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) in Africa.
Dr Andy Cornish shares why shark and ray conservation is vital for our ocean ecosystems.
Professor Sir Jonathan Van-Tam shares his recollections of time as a student at Nottingham and life on campus today.
As a young man growing up in Ghana, Dr Eric Gyan (Cancer Immunology and Biotechnology, 2011) had a dream to become a physician.
But only thanks to the university’s international scholarship programme and the generosity of alumni donors was this dream able to become a reality.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/alumni/update-your-details.aspx:
Make sure you don't miss out on our Connected we thrive activities, alumni events, university news and opportunities around the world by sharing your contact details with us.
It's quick and easy to do – just fill in the update form below.
If you have any questions, you can contact us for help at alumni-enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk .
Did you graduate from our China or Malaysia campuses?
If so, please use the following links to update your details: Malaysia Campus | China Campus If the form does not appear you may need to clear your cookies in your internet browser settings.
How we use your information
We are committed to protecting your personal information and being transparent about what we do with it.
We use your data to send you relevant communications; offer you beneficial services; and identify future opportunities for providing support which may be of interest to you.
You can find out more in our privacy notice .
Please contact us by email at databaseenquiries@nottingham.ac.uk or in writing: Campaign and Alumni Relations Office, B50 CARO Team Zone, Kings Meadow Campus, University of Nottingham, Lenton Lane, Nottingham, NG7 2NR
Speak to our Alumni Engagement team or follow us on social media for the latest alumni news.
Email: alumni-enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
Phone: +44 (0)115 823 2408 Address: Campaign and Alumni Relations Office B50 CARO Team Zone Kings Meadow Campus University of Nottingham Lenton Lane Nottingham NG7 2NR

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/alumni/services.aspx:
Find out more information about the range of services we offer to support you.
Explore the services available to you as a graduate from our Careers and Employability teams.
Find out how you can order copies of degree certificates and graduate transcripts from our online shop.
The university has a wide range of accommodation available for visitors to our campuses.
You can access the fantastic sports facilities across our campuses with an alumni sports membership for £33.90 a month.
You can hold your special day in the beautiful surroundings of University Park, with special rates available for alumni.
You can apply for library membership, giving you access to our eight libraries, for an annual membership fee of £25 (plus VAT).
Explore our opportunities and register your interest to get involved.

New sentences found on https://nottingham.ac.uk/alumni/faqs.aspx:
Here you can find answers to some of our most frequently asked questions.
If you can't find what you are looking for, email alumni-enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk , call +44 (0)115 823 2408 or fill in our online form to contact us .
All requests to verify information regarding current students, leavers or graduates are now processed through the Higher Education Degree Datacheck.
If your request is to verify information regarding a student or graduate of The University Of Nottingham please submit this request online at www.hedd.ac.uk .
The Alumni Engagement team is not authorised to provide academic references as we don't remain in personal contact with each student at the University of Nottingham.
If you would like to contact an individual member of staff from your department of study you can use our Staff Look Up tool to find their contact details.
To make an enquiry please email alumni-enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk , including as much relevant information as possible, such as:
Because of data protection laws we are unable to provide alumni with contact details of other alumni.
However we can forward your own contact details, with your permission, to alumni you are trying to reach should we have their valid contact details.
Email alumni-enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk with the individual's details and we will update our records.
When one of our former students passes away, we include their name and education details in memoriam on our remembering our alumni page.
If you have any objections to the alumnus/alumna’s name being shared please let us know in your email.
There's a whole host of online journals accessible to alumni, including:
Student email accounts are deactivated 90 days after your official leaving date, so it is recommended that you plan ahead and ensure no emails are sent to this account after.
For further information, see Student IT Services .
University of Nottingham alumni have exclusive access to a range of facilities on campus, including our world-class libraries and sports facilities.
Whether you're back on campus for a day or two, or live locally our services page details all that's available to you as alumni.