# Site: https://www.ox.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 497
# --------

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/divisions-and-departments:
There are four academic divisions within Oxford University.
All have a full-time divisional head and an elected divisional board.
Also listed are the Department for Continuing Education, and the University's Gardens, Libraries and Museums.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses-listing:
Are you still deciding what to study?
Take a look at our tips on choosing your course.
Archaeology and Anthropology
Asian and Middle Eastern Studies
Biochemistry (Molecular and Cellular)
Biology
Biomedical Sciences
Chemistry
Classical Archaeology and Ancient History
Classics
Classics and Asian and Middle Eastern Studies
Classics and English
Classics and Modern Languages
Computer Science
Computer Science and Philosophy
Earth Sciences (Geology)
Economics and Management
Engineering Science
English Language and Literature
English and Modern Languages
European and Middle Eastern Languages
Fine Art
Foundation Year (Chemistry, Engineering and Materials Science)
Foundation Year (Humanities)
Foundation Year (Law)
Foundation Year (PPE)
Geography
History
History (Ancient and Modern)
History and Economics
History and English
History and Modern Languages
History and Politics
History of Art
Human Sciences
Law (Jurisprudence)
Materials Science
Mathematics
Mathematics and Computer Science
Mathematics and Philosophy
Mathematics and Statistics
Medicine
Medicine (graduate entry)
Modern Languages
Modern Languages and Linguistics
Music
Philosophy and Modern Languages
Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE)
Philosophy and Theology
Physics
Physics and Philosophy
Psychology (Experimental)
Psychology, Philosophy and Linguistics
Religion and Asian and Middle Eastern Studies
Theology and Religion
Top tips that will inspire you and help set you up for future success
Follow us on social media to get the most up-to-date application information throughout the year, and to hear from our students.
YouTube
Instagram
X

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/courses-a-z-listing:
Use this A-Z and search tool to explore all of Oxford's graduate courses.
The instructions in our Application Guide are relevant to applications for all graduate courses at Oxford, except for :
Please note that websites external to the University of Oxford may hold information on our courses.
Those websites may contain incomplete and inaccurate information.
Please refer to this website which provides the definitive and up-to-date source of information on any graduate course offered by the University.
If you have a query about graduate admissions at Oxford, we're here to help:
Ask a question
Postgraduate Applicant Privacy Policy

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/visitors/maps-and-directions/departments:
Please use the search box to find the location of a building located in Oxford.
You can also use the menu listing to find specific university buildings such as colleges, departmental buildings, libraries and museums.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/colleges:
Use the links below to visit the websites of all Oxford University Colleges and Permanent Private Halls.
All Souls College
Balliol College
Blackfriars
Brasenose College
Campion Hall
Christ Church
Corpus Christi College
Exeter College
Green Templeton College
Harris Manchester College
Hertford College
Jesus College
Keble College
Kellogg College
Lady Margaret Hall
Linacre College
Lincoln College
Magdalen College
Mansfield College
Merton College
New College
Nuffield College
Oriel College
Pembroke College
The Queen's College
Regent's Park College
Reuben College
St Anne's College
St Antony's College
St Catherine's College
St Cross College
St Edmund Hall
St Hilda's College
St Hugh's College
St John's College
St Peter's College
Somerville College
Trinity College
University College
Wadham College
Wolfson College
Worcester College
Wycliffe Hall

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/colleges:
The small and friendly academic communities which make Oxford a special place to study and live.
Oxford is made up of over 30 colleges and halls providing every student with a safe and supportive environment from day one.
You can specify a college preference on your UCAS form or make an open application.
Find out more.
Every college has its own character although the facilities are generally pretty similar.
Explore them now.
Start by checking which colleges offer your course.
Students pay for accommodation and food although this is often heavily subsidised.
Find out more about the cost.
You don't have to be in Oxford to have a look round.
These 360° views will take you on a virtual tour.
Find out more about your accommodation options and what it's like to live in Oxford.
Our 2025 Open Days are taking place on 2 and 3 July and 19 September.
Facilities at colleges are generally pretty similar but this table will help you compare them.
Our 2025 undergraduate Open Days will be held on 2 and 3 July and 19 September.
Register to find out more about our upcoming Open Days.
Follow us on X @OxOutreach , on Instagram @StudyAtOxford and on YouTube @StudyAtOxford for the latest news about events and Open Days.
Try our extensive database of FAQs or submit your own question...
FAQs - Colleges

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/colleges:
All graduate students (except those on non-matriculated courses) are members of both a department or faculty and a college or hall.
In this section, you can find out more about Oxford's colleges, how to state a college preference in your application and the facilities that are available.
All Oxford’s colleges and halls offer an extra dimension to student life at Oxford.
Find out how to state a college preference in your application or ask us to find a college for you.
Find out more about the University's colleges and permanent private halls.
The University has an international reputation for world-leading research, teaching and resources, and combine this with a beautiful and historic city, it is alive with activity, attracting students from all over the world.
The University of Oxford has
43
colleges, including societies and halls

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions:
Learn more about the courses we offer, and find out how to make an application to join us.
Discover what life is really like as an Oxford student, including the courses we offer and how to apply.
We offer a unique experience to graduate students.
Find out about our postgraduate courses and how to apply.
Adult learning: more than 1000 part-time courses and programmes offered each year.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate:
Do you love to question and have an appetite for knowledge?
Do you consistently achieve top grades in your class?
Are you looking for an exceptional education in an environment which values individuals for who they are?
Oxford might be the place for you.
Don’t forget to book your test appointment as soon as possible
Find new ways to explore your favourite subjects through our subject resources
Read our tips for working on your personal statement this summer
Sign up for our Choosing Oxford newsletter to receive step-by-step support
Everyone should love what they learn - find the course that's right for you
Develop your own interests alongside your degree
Explore our prospectus for entry in 2026 to discover more
Did you know around 1 in 4 UK Oxford undergraduates currently receives a bursary?
Get involved with our Big Questions and discover some of Oxford's cutting-edge research.
Will you be taking an Oxford admissions test in October?
Don't wait to check out our guidance on how to register and book your place in a Pearson VUE test centre.
Registrations are now open.
Registered candidates can book their test centre via the portal dashboard.
Places at test centres are allocated on a first come, first served basis and we strongly recommend booking as soon as possible.
We provide step-by-step support for all our applicants .
Our prospectus provides you with a quick and digestible overview of core information while more detailed admissions guidance can be found in our Guide for applicants .
We recommend that you sign-up now for our Choosing Oxford newsletter for step-by-step support with your application as well as some fun insights into student life here.
You might also like to watch our Official Video Guides .
Details of other opportunities for you to explore student life at Oxford can be found in Increasing Access and in our outreach calendar .
Don't miss those deadlines!
Make sure you are clear on each step of our admissions process.
Learn more about those aspects of student life at Oxford and our admissions process which are particularly relevant to you.
How you make a competitive application, including registering and preparing for admissions tests.
Watch our Official Guide video, What is student life at Oxford really like?
Watch our Official Guide video: How to apply
Watch our Official Guide video: Ways to prepare for studying at Oxford
Everyone should love what they learn - explore our courses to find the one that’s right for you
Discover the colleges which make Oxford a special place to live and study.
Discover life as an Oxford student and make up your own mind
Make sure you know what your degree will cost and find out all about the generous financial help available from the University and our colleges.
Make the most of our step-by-step support and ensure you are properly informed about applying to Oxford.
To support your online learning, we have collected the best of our digital resources.
These are both age and subject-specific and are available for students who are under 10 years old right up to those who are over 16 and about to apply to university.
When it comes to deciding what to do after school, everyone benefits from the support of family and friends, but what's the best way to help?
From start to finish: all the information you need to provide excellent support for your Oxford applicants.
Discover Oxplore: the home of big questions
Sign up to our Choosing Oxford newsletter and receive step-by-step support with your application
UCAS deadline : 15 October (6pm BST) Admissions tests timeline : Registering: 18 June – 19 September (6pm BST) Booking: 18 August (1pm BST) – 26 September (6pm BST) Test window: 21–27 October Written work : 10 November Online interviews for shortlisted candidates : early to mid December Decisions : 13 January, 2026
The University of Oxford is committed to protecting the privacy and security of your personal information.
Read our privacy notice
ANY QUESTIONS?

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate:
We offer a unique experience to our graduate students, including the opportunity to work with leading academics and with world-class libraries, laboratories, museums and collections.
The Graduate Admissions pages of the University of Oxford website are designed for those applying for postgraduate study at the University of Oxford during the 2025-26 academic year.
Oxford ranks top in the 2025 Times Higher Education World University Rankings
Register for monthly email updates from Graduate Admissions
Access initiatives including application fee waivers for students from low-income backgrounds
Read advice from graduate students and staff before you apply
Read our guide to graduate courses that are accepting applications.
Information on fees, living costs, scholarships and loans and advice on finding other funding.
Our detailed information will guide you through the graduate admissions process.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/lifelong-learning:
Courses and qualifications in Oxford and online
Gain an Oxford qualification with a part-time undergraduate award course.
Some can be studied mostly, or entirely, online.
Further your study, progress in your career or learn for personal enrichment.
Many can be studied online with short residencies in Oxford.
Study with Oxford from anywhere in the world.
Courses include weekly classes, flexible short courses, day events and Oxford qualifications.
Working with academic experts across the University to design and deliver world-class training for professionals.
Explore a new topic or revisit a favourite subject over the course of a few days, a few weeks or a term.
Join us in Oxford or online.
Accredited and non-accredited summer courses for adult learners.
Held at Rewley House and Oxford's historic colleges.
Low-residency courses allow you to study whilst continuing with day-to-day life, visiting Oxford for short residential stays.
We have an active interdisciplinary research community, with a strong focus on the humanities and social sciences.
We provide transformational courses to a global community of adult learners, with students ranging in age from 18 into their 90s.
Every year there are more than 15,000 enrolments on courses offered by Oxford Lifelong Learning, making Oxford University one of the largest providers of continuing education in the UK.
We offer opportunities for adult learners of all ages and interests to explore new ideas and engage with the latest developments shaping our world.
The breadth of courses we offer ensures there is something for every curious mind.
Keep up to date with the latest news, exclusive content and opportunities from Oxford Lifelong Learning.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research:
Oxford University ranked number 1 in the Times Higher Education (THE) World University Rankings for the ninth year running, and at the heart of this success is our ground-breaking research and innovation.
Discover how Oxford researchers are responding to the climate crisis
We are committed to harnessing the transformative potential of generative AI
How Oxford experts are exploring the most complex object in the known universe
Applying AI to society's greatest challenges and tackling its ethical issues
Helping you to change the world
Oxford is world-famous for research excellence and home to some of the most talented people from across the globe.
Our work helps the lives of millions, solving real-world problems through a huge network of partnerships and collaborations.
The breadth and interdisciplinary nature of our research sparks imaginative and inventive insights and solutions.
Meet some of the talented people behind Oxford’s world-class research.
Pushing forward the boundaries of knowledge, their work solves real world problems and creates a positive impact on our societies, economies and health.
The Oxford region is one of the most innovative in the UK, with new enterprises continuing to join a growing band of spinouts, startups and entrepreneurs.
Oxford’s researchers and academics have a wealth of experience in engaging with policymakers and contributing to policy impact.
Have a look at some of the short films below for excellent examples of Public Engagement with Research (PER) activities that take place at Oxford which Inform/Inspire, Consult and Collaborate with the public.
Our approach to research collaboration and partnership is underpinned by five core values.
Watch our Research Impact films: 3-4 minute videos of how our research has benefitted policy, health, business and culture.
The Nature Positive Universities Alliance brings higher education institutions together to use their unique power and influence as drivers of positive change.
These findings, published in the journal iScience, have important implications for understanding the technical abilities associated with the making of perishable tools – a topic which remains a highly unknown aspect
The research, published in the British Medical Journal (BMJ) and led by Profes
Through the five-year collaboration, students and faculty staff are now able to gain access to research grant funding, enterprise-level security and cutting-edge AI tools to enhance teaching, learning and research.
The AI in Education at Oxford University (AIEOU) is an interdisciplinary research hub supporting the diverse needs of the global educational landscape through collaboration and knowledge exchange.
Unsustainable wildlife use and trade imperils thousands of species and is a major contributor towards current unprecedented rates of global biodiversity loss.
The impact report sets out OUI’s support to form cutting edge spinouts and the return of millions of pounds to the University of Oxford to fund future innovation and research.
The report was unveiled at an
'On average, for-profit care homes are worse quality and more selective than publicly-owned provision – and yet the for-profit sector has come to dominate the landscape in England's social care', says Benjamin Goodair from the
The study, published in the journal Community, Work and Family, assesses peo
As Large Language Models (LLMs) become more prevalent and easy to access, academics across the globe are using their assistance for academic manuscript writing, in particular developing ideas and content.
In the EU, a new law requires companies to create plans that lay out how they will transition to net zero.
The UK is the third most targeted country in the world for cyber-attacks, after Ukraine and the United States
From 11-24 November, Fantasy Futures: Guardians of Oxford will showcase the latest innovations in motion tracking technologies, provided by Vicon Motion Systems, and take visitors on a narrative
The authors also highlight how NbS can create 'win-win' scenarios, such as raising income and creating jobs while enhancing biodiversity and supporting climate adaptation.
Most people in most countries state that they wish to have a democratic
In a paper on international law in Gaza, Professor Janina Dill of the Blavatnik School of Government
Elgar is famous for works such as the ‘Enigma’ Variations and The Dream of Gerontius, which display the thematic richness his compositions are known for.
Charlie Knight, current doctoral researcher and Radcliffe Meteorological Observer, remarked, 'this exceptional amount of rainfall is particularly unusual given that September is typically not a very wet month, averaging 52 mm of rain.
• Research strategy • Engagement and partnership strategy • Divisions
Latest campaigns
We are developing fundamental AI tools, applying AI to global challenges, and addressing the ethical issues of new technologies.
Experts at Oxford are expanding our understanding of brain health at a cellular level, exploring the impacts of mental health issues on the individual, and examining population-wide global health problems.
Other campaigns

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/engage-with-us:
Big challenges face our world today: from pioneering new cures to setting society-shaping policies, from creating new energy sources to determining modern ethics.
At the University of Oxford we’re passionate about the creation and impact of our knowledge and how, in partnership with business, charities, NGOs, policymakers and communities, we can create and apply innovative solutions on a local to global scale.
Interested in working with us?
Find out more about some of our successful innovation partnerships , or contact [email protected] to get started.
Professor Chas Bountra Pro-Vice Chancellor for Innovation ‘Everyone is now looking to all great universities such as Oxford to create important benefits for patients, individuals/ societies, industry and economies all over the world.
They don’t just want us to train the next generation and do great research.
They also want us to make the world a better place, they are looking for impacts of our scholarship and research.’

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/support-researchers:
Oxford provides a huge range of support for research staff, ranging from help finding funding, to career advice, to guidance for new principal investigators.
Your primary source of information and support will be your departmental administrator and your principal investigator or line manager.
These pages point you to the wealth of support available from your division and the wider University, whether you’ve just arrived and want to find your way around, need help applying for or managing grants, want to get in touch with other researchers, or are thinking about the next step in your career.
If you are in a research support role, please see the research section of the staff gateway for additional information and guidance.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/using-research-engage:
There are lots of resources across the University to help you use your research to interact with organisations or individuals outside academia.
Find out ways that researchers and policymakers connect and explore common interests
Find out more about Public Engagement at the University.
Or explore specific divisional support:
Additional University-wide Knowledge Exchange and Impact resources and support

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/recognition:
The University of Oxford is the world’s oldest English-speaking university.
It has been at the forefront of research, scholarship and innovation for over 850 years, and is today a vibrant hub of internationally-leading work spanning all aspects of science, medicine, the social sciences and humanities.
Our mission is the advancement of learning by teaching and research, and its dissemination by every means.
Our goal is to make a difference at all scales, from the local to the global, influencing technology, policy and culture for the benefit of society.
In this section:

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news-and-events:
Contact the News Office: 01865 280528 or [email protected]
Find out how Dr Sophie Rasmussen , 'Dr Hedgehog',  has led conservation efforts to save the European hedgehog through collaborating with European parliamentarians and through impactful media engagement.
Her work has led to the conservation status of the European Hedgehog being heightened to 'near threatened' which will result in increased protection for the species across Europe.
Dr Caroline Green is keeping social care human in the age of AI
Dr Chris Ballance , quantum computing’s up-and-coming star
End-of-the-world scare stories have the opposite effect: celebrated conservationist Dame EJ Milner-Gulland accentuates the positive
> Discover more Oxford profiles
All News >
You can view all news or browse by category
Follow @uniofoxford
Information about animal research at Oxford

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/events-list:
University or College events, which are open to everyone, are listed here.
If you're thinking about applying for an undergraduate degree at Oxford, please also see the information on open days, events and visiting for potential undergraduates .
Online and part-time courses at the University are offered at Oxford Lifelong Learning.
Please see the course listing for more information.
Sunday 31 August
Join the next free, volunteer-led family gallery tour at the Ashmolean Museum this summer.
Listen to stories and hunt for history while you explore.
There will also be craft activities for all, where everyone can take home their creations.
The family gallery tours will last around one hour and include the Ancient Egypt, Rome, Greece and Modern Art galleries.
No need to book, just turn up.
Please bear in mind that during school holidays family tours are limited to 15 families and tour places will be on a 'first come, first served' basis.
More dates may be added soon – see the Museum website for details.
Tuesday 2 September
Scientists first detected gravitational waves – ripples in spacetime predicted by Einstein – on 14 September 2015.
That discovery, a gravitational-wave whisper from two colliding black holes, opened an entirely new window onto the Universe.
Marking the tenth anniversary of this breakthrough, Professor Patrick Brady will recount how gravitational-wave astronomy has transformed from a bold experiment into a thriving field.
Along the way, you'll learn what happens at the black hole event horizon and how neutron star collisions are responsible for most of the gold in our Universe.
Wednesday 24 September
Astronomy for All Lecture 2025: When Thomas Hornsby as Savilian Professor persuaded the Radcliffe Trust to build an Observatory, his aim was not only to put Oxford Astronomy on the world map but also to have a grand building with facilities for teaching.
The talk will illustrate the (often very human) story behind this Oxford icon.
This is the 50th lecture in the Astronomy for All Lecture Series, which Charles Barclay began in 2006 to strengthen and reinforce the link between Green Templeton College, home of the Radcliffe Observatory, and the Oxford Astrophysics Department.
If you're organising a University or College event which is open to everyone and would like to have it listed here, send us the details using our event submission form
Event submissions are moderated, so bear in mind that your event will not appear immediately.
All event managers should be aware of the University’s code of practice for meeting and events.
Please note that events published on these pages will also be submitted to Daily Info, Oxford through an automatic feed.
If you need to make changes to an event which is already listed, contact the Information Office.
If you're organising an Undergraduate event or an Outreach event and you would like it to appear on that event listing page, send us the details using our
Outreach event submission form
Where possible, public events are held in venues that are easily accessible, close to accessible bathrooms, and equipped with hearing loop systems.
Please contact the Event Organiser and/or the Disability Office for accessibility information, or to give feedback on venues.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/features:
20 Aug 2025
On World Mosquito Day, Dr Lucy Harrison , postdoctoral researcher at Oxford’s Infectious Diseases Data Observatory (IDDO) at the Centre for Tropical Medicine and Global Health , reflects on the global impact of the mosquito and her research into malaria drug resistance.
A small insect, a global impact
Dr Lucy Harrison.
Credit: James Harrison.
Every year on 20 August, World Mosquito Day marks the extraordinary role of one tiny insect in shaping human health.
Mosquitoes are responsible for transmitting some of the world’s most devastating diseases, including malaria, dengue, Zika, and yellow fever.
Malaria alone causes more than 260 million cases and nearly 600,000 deaths annually .
Around 95% of this burden is borne by people in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Despite investments of over USD 4 billion in malaria control efforts in 2023, global funding still falls short of what is needed to meet the World Health Organization's Global Technical Strategy .
The relationship between humans and malaria is ancient.
Evidence suggests the disease afflicted populations from the time of the Egyptians and may even have been described by Hippocrates.
From discovery to mathematics
World Mosquito Day commemorates the discovery by Sir Ronald Ross, on 20 August 1897, that female Anopheles mosquitoes transmit malaria.
Ross also pioneered the first mathematical model of vector-borne disease, showing how infected mosquitoes create infected people and vice versa.
His insights laid the foundation for malaria control strategies: if mosquito numbers are reduced, the opportunities for transmission fall.
George Macdonald later refined this work, introducing the concept of the ‘reproduction number’ or 'R number' — a measure familiar today from its use during the COVID-19 pandemic.
An Anopheles mosquito with macaques, which can host the malaria parasite Plasmodium knowlesi.
Pigs are hosts of Japanese encephalitis virus, another disease studied by Dr Harrison.
Fighting back
Mosquito-borne diseases can be tackled by controlling mosquito populations, reducing human exposure, and treating infections.
Approaches include removing stagnant water, spraying insecticides, releasing genetically modified mosquitoes that reduce reproduction, using repellents and bed nets, and deploying effective medicines.
Several key malaria drugs come from natural sources.
Quinine, derived from the bark of the cinchona tree, was used for centuries and even gave rise to tonic water.
More recently, artemisinin, discovered in 1972 from sweet wormwood ( Artemisia annua ), revolutionised malaria treatment.
Its discovery earned Chinese pharmacologist, Tu Youyou , the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2015.
But widespread drug use also fuels drug resistance.
Artemisinin-resistant parasites were first documented in 2008 , and are linked to specific mutations in the parasite’s genes.
To preserve treatment effectiveness, the WHO now recommends combining artemisinin with a partner drug to slow the evolution of resistance.
Mapping resistance
At Oxford, my work focuses on mapping the spread of genetic mutations in malaria parasites across Sub-Saharan Africa.
These mutations are linked to resistance against frontline drugs such as artemisinin.
With the power of modelling, my maps use the data that is available to predict what proportion of malaria parasites may have mutations linked to drug resistance in locations where we don’t have any data.
In many regions where malaria transmission is most intense, there is little or no genetic data.
Running clinical trials to test drug effectiveness is costly and resource-intensive.
To overcome this, we use geospatial models that can predict the likely distribution of resistance even in areas without data.
These models combine available genetic data with information on the distance and time between data collections, and environmental conditions such as malaria prevalence.
By doing so, we can predict the prevalence of resistant parasites in areas where we don’t have any data.
The maps produced at the University of Oxford will be made freely available through the Infectious Diseases Data Observatory’s Artemisinin Molecular Surveyor .
The Surveyor is a living systematic review which can be used by researchers and policy-makers to visualise the current state of global drug resistance in the malaria parasite.
A screenshot of the Infectious Disease Data Observatory’s Artemisinin Molecular Surveyor, which visualises published genetic data of the malaria parasite.
Looking ahead
This World Mosquito Day reminds us that mosquitoes remain one of humanity’s most persistent threats.
At Oxford, researchers are combining field data, genetics, and advanced modelling to provide the evidence needed to guide global health decisions, helping to ensure that life-saving drugs remain effective for the communities that need them most.
8 Aug 2025
The Community Impact Lab links the research talent of Oxford University graduates with local community organisations tackling environmental, economic and social inequality across Oxfordshire.
Impact Lab fellows outline what it's like to be involved
The Community Impact Lab is one of four programmes set up by Oxford SDG Impact Lab to harness the skills and knowledge of the University's graduate students to advance the UN sustainable development goals.
'We recognised a gap in graduate students' experience,’ says Alex Betts, Co-founder of SDG Impact Lab and Pro Vice-Chancellor for External Engagement, Sport and Community at Oxford University.
‘They get an amazing academic education when they come to Oxford.
We wanted to complement this by offering them the opportunity to use their talents to make a difference to society and the planet.'
Some of this year’s 14 Community Impact Lab Fellows outline how they feel they have made a difference to the communities and organisations they have supported – and to themselves.
Sana Shah is completing a DPhil in History at Somerville College and has been part of the Impact Lab team supporting Oxfordshire Football Association.
Her task has been to understand how football can promote better health, equality and community cohesion across the county.
‘I chose this project because I felt it echoed my own research as an historian and my love of stories.
It was about bringing people together and really listening to them – particularly to voices often left out of formal consultation.’
Sana teamed up with her research partner Ciao Anchi, a member of Wolfson College who is taking an MPhil in Global and Area Studies.
They conducted in-person interviews and community engagement sessions with people from diverse backgrounds across Oxfordshire.
‘We also attended local matches, training sessions, and community events, where we spoke informally with parents, players, coaches, and volunteers.
We reached upwards of 50-60 individuals.’
They found a massive enthusiasm for the beautiful game but also financial and cultural barriers to taking part, from the cost of kit to the pub culture among some adult teams.
Sana wants the FA to do ‘more listening’ to players and the people running local football groups, when it comes to allocating resources.
She also suggests that Oxford colleges could get more involved in community football – perhaps sponsoring local teams.
‘Working on this project has completely changed how I see football – I now understand it not just as a sport, but as a community lifeline for many people.’
Arden Jaeger is pursuing an MSt in History of Art and Visual Culture and is a member of Wadham College.
As a Community Impact Fellow, he has been working with the Tap Social Movement, which offers employment and training to people with convictions via the brewery, bakery, café and tap bars it runs across Oxfordshire.
‘I came to Oxford with the attitude that I would say yes to opportunities that came my way.
I wanted to find a more measurable way of making a social impact.’
Arden particularly appreciates the interdisciplinary nature of being a member of the impact Lab.
‘It felt slightly strange at first.
I was surrounded by scientists and social scientists tackling big problems while I was looking at pictures of whales.
‘But I have been able to demonstrate that the visual arts can have a huge impact, for example as a means of communicating the complexity or urgency of an issue.’
Tap Social has worked with around 60 prisoners or prison leavers and nearly a third of its staff have prison experience.
Arden’s task has been to find out what impact secure employment has on people with convictions, their families and their friends.
He also needed to consider how the Tap Social Movement could be scaled for broader social impact.
With his research partner, Diya Ramful – a DPhil Environmental Research student, also at Wadham College – Arden reached out to local arts organisations and criminal justice charities working with marginalised groups as well as Tap Social staff and customers.
‘There is huge support for Tap Social’s mission.
Among staff with prison experience, a secure job is more than an income.
It affects their housing, social connections and their mental health.
‘This project showed me just how interlinked problems of social justice can be.
Tap Social is a positive case study that should be used to inspire other employers.’
Ali Elhassan and Clara Cecil already had an interest in sustainable food systems when they opted to work on a project with OxFarm2Fork, which links the county’s institutions, including 18 Oxford colleges, with 20 local agroecological food producers.
Clara, an MSc student in Sustainability, Enterprise and the Environment and a member of Mansfield College, has worked with a small start-up looking at funding and technology investment in regenerative farming.
Developing measurement frameworks was very theoretical and I wanted to be more involved at a community level,’ she says.
Ali is an experienced civil and environmental engineer and is taking an MSc in Water Science, Policy and Management and is a member of Hertford College.
Before joining the Impact Lab he carried out his own research into food waste in Oxford and wanted to do more.
‘The OxFarm2Fork project has been a good counterbalance to my academic work, although I found it hard fitting it all in at first.’
The pair agree that it was fun too.
‘We didn’t know each other before but have become good friends,’ Ali says.
OxFarm2Fork was set up by Good Food Oxfordshire which hopes to use Ali and Clara’s findings to help extend the Farm2Fork collaboration to other institutions.
Clara and Ali visited four local farms, identified more than 80 plant and insect species and tested the nutrient content of more than 20 different crops.
‘Some crops definitely have a much higher nutrient density than supermarket equivalent,’ Ali says.
‘But it is not a consistent picture and ideally we need to find a more detailed means of measuring nutrient content.’
Clara and Ali also interviewed farmers and students and chefs in participating Oxford colleges.
They think there is more mileage to be had from partnerships with Oxford colleges such as piloting contracted growing around particular crops – possibly more unusual crops that cannot be sourced elsewhere.
They certainly feel that the inspirational growers they met have the commitment and work ethic to rise to the challenge.
‘The farmers were awesome,’ Clara says.
The Community Impact Lab is supported by the University of Oxford’s ESRC Impact Acceleration Account.
6 Aug 2025
Dr Zakiyya Adam , Research Associate at the Transport Studies Unit within the University of Oxford’s School of Geography and the Environment , outlines recommendations for the implementation of cycling-promoting initiatives in mid-sized European cities.
Dr Zakiyya Adam, Research Associate, Transport Studies Unit Cycling should be a viable, safe, affordable and accessible option for all.
It lowers personal travel costs, helps to cut carbon emissions, reduces inner city travel time and has proven mental and physical health benefits.
When a city provides only cycle lanes, this comes with the implicit belief that individuals can attain a bike without any financial aid, are confident in their cycling proficiency, and that they have a secure location at which to store their bike.
This is not the case for many, especially those from lower socioeconomic backgrounds.
Truly inclusive policy should strive to remove barriers to cycling - both objective and perceived - for all segments of society.
Likewise, cycling provisions should not only focus on individuals; cargo bikes make it possible for businesses to swap out their car or van trips and for children to be transported around as passengers.
To encourage this use, the larger profile and heavier frame of e-cargo bikes needs to be accounted for when designing cycle infrastructure.
Whilst it is admirable that many cities aspire to be cycle-friendly and encourage people to shift from car travel to bikes, good will and cycle lanes alone will not instigate behaviour change.
Research as part of the SPECIFIC project , led by the Transport Studies Unit (TSU), and conducted in collaboration with academics in Austria, the Netherlands, Poland and Switzerland, has sought to understand what exactly is needed to see this ambition be realised in mid-sized European cities.
A thorough analysis of cycling-promoting initiatives was conducted in Bristol by TSU researchers as well as in Graz (AT), Maastricht (NL), Poznań (PL) and Bellinzona (CH) by the other teams.
In 2008, Bristol was the first city in the UK to gain Cycling City status, which secured significant investment for cycling schemes.
Since then, Bristol has continued its commitment to increase the number of cyclists through the creation of dedicated cycle lanes, better cycling facilities, and more cycle training.
Despite the hilly terrain, Bristol has a strong cycling culture and good infrastructure.
In each of the five cities, the researchers interviewed a comprehensive array of individuals from across local government, consultancy, advocacy groups and academia who were directly involved in such schemes, and also engaged with publicly available literature.
Policy briefs were produced for each of the five cities, highlighting the key factors that enabled or hindered pro-cycling initiatives and outlining learnings for governance and planning.
Common threads emerged across the five mid-sized cities spanning the UK, Switzerland, Austria, the Netherlands and Poland, with the following five recommendations for encouraging participation and long-term behaviour change.
1.
Safe, Continuous, and Inclusive Infrastructure
If we want more people to cycle, we need to build for the bikes - and riders - we have now and want in the future.
Cycle lanes should be physically separated from other road users where possible.
Gaps, fragmentation, or poorly integrated cycle lanes are major deterrents to cycling due to safety concerns, especially for families and new riders.
And all cycling infrastructure – including, for example, bollards and chicanes, and cycle parking - should be designed to be inclusive, ensuring accessibility for cargo bikes and e-bikes that are heavier and larger than conventional bikes.
2.
‘Cycling Support’ Beyond Paths
Cycle paths alone are not enough.
Supporting infrastructure - such as secure parking, maintenance facilities, and cycle training - is essential.
On-street cycle hangars are particularly important for people living in apartments or without access to home storage.
And secure parking near mobility hubs and workplaces often determines whether people choose to ride – the risk of your bike not being there at the end of the day is not one many can afford to take.
Only by addressing the full range of rider needs does cycling become a viable and attractive option for all.
3.
Community Engagement Early and Often
Public participation, especially in planning and prioritising investments, is essential.
Cities that actively consult residents on infrastructure tend to see higher uptake and less resistance.
In Bristol, for example, cycle hangars that enable six bikes to be parked in the space of one car were heavily subscribed to at just the planning stage, and faced little public resistance as the locations were proposed and voted on by Bristolians.
Citizen-led initiatives also help foster lasting behavioural change.
People back what they help to build.
4.
Address Cultural and Behavioural Barriers
Campaigns, community rides, gamified apps, and ambassador programmes can play a key role in shifting perceptions and normalising cycling.
Even with adequate cycling infrastructure, social norms and personal habits can discourage people from making the switch.
Perceived safety risks, discomfort in bad weather, status quo bias, and deeply embedded car-centric mindsets all hinder uptake.
In Bellinzona, for example, the Bellidea and Bikecoin mobile apps reward users with points redeemable for vouchers or discounts, reinforcing cycling as a socially approved and economically rewarding practice.
Changing streets is important but changing minds is essential.
5.
Build Long-Term Capacity
In the UK, the spending review in June 2025 saw cuts to the level of funding for Active Travel England, who many local authorities are reliant on for delivering cycle schemes.
Volunteer-led efforts are valuable, but they are not sustainable without institutional backing.
Projects must be properly resourced, with long-term investment in training, evaluation, and leadership.
Cities also need robust monitoring and feedback systems in order to adapt and scale successful schemes.
Only with long-term investment can promising initiatives become permanent solutions.
-
International best practice offers a clear roadmap for action: invest in connected infrastructure, provide inclusive cycling support, embed public engagement in planning, focus on encouraging behavioural change, and commit to long-term investment and leadership.
And it is important that we get this right, as cycling initiatives have the potential to not just change how we move, but transform how we feel and live.
4 Aug 2025
Dr Emily Warner , from Oxford University’s Nature-based Solutions Initiative , discusses the challenges of measuring biodiversity and capturing its complexity.
She introduces a new framework aiming to simplify this process for practitioners, which was developed in collaboration with Dr Licida Giuliani and Dr Grant Campbell from the University of Aberdeen as part of an Agile Sprint on scaling up nature-based solutions in the UK.
Biodiversity supports the very fundamentals of human life , but its multi-faceted nature means it is easy for aspects of it to be in decline without us even realising.
Biodiversity supports the very fundamentals of human life, but its multi-faceted nature means it is easy for aspects of it to be in decline without us even realising.
Across the UK, abundance of all species has declined by an average of 19% since 1970 and nearly one in six species are at risk of extinction.
The July 2025 assessment of progress on the Environmental Improvement Plan highlights the many habitat-based measures being implemented to tackle UK biodiversity loss, from four new National Nature Reserves to planting over 5,500 has of new woodland in England.
To understand whether these efforts are supporting progress towards the apex goal of thriving plants and wildlife, we need to assess how biodiversity is responding.
Thinking about how we monitor these changes might seem boring, but it is important, and we won’t solve the biodiversity crisis without it!
Dr Emily Warner I am an applied ecologist, working on the science behind habitat restoration.
As the nature and climate crises intensify, it is increasingly critical that efforts to protect and restore nature are successful.
But working in partnership with conservation projects in the UK I have seen the challenges in simply and effectively monitoring project outcomes.
Why measuring biodiversity is so hard
From an increasing interest in biodiversity credits to national and international commitments to reverse biodiversity loss, the need for effective biodiversity monitoring methods is clear.
The challenge is that measuring biodiversity is notoriously complex.
The Convention on Biological Diversity’s definition of biodiversity highlights how expansive a concept biodiversity is: 'the variability among living organisms from all sources and the ecological complexes of which they are part; this includes diversity within species, between species, and of ecosystems'.
With an increasing need to demonstrate success from conservation projects, the question of how to measure biodiversity is increasingly at the forefront of practitioners’ minds.
For example, nature-based solutions projects, which work with nature to tackle societal challenges, such as restoring a wetland to mitigate flooding, must also deliver benefits for biodiversity at their core.
Similarly, multiple biodiversity credit systems – which allow the trading of tokens representing improved biodiversity – are in development in the UK alone , emphasising the critical need to be able to document increasing biodiversity.
With the rush to come up with a simple, tractable method of measuring biodiversity there is a simultaneous risk of oversimplifying, and we need to ask whether measuring something inadequately could be worse than not measuring it at all.
UK invertebrates are declining faster than plants and birds, threatening the foundation of ecosystems and direct benefits they provide to humans, such as food security, which is underpinned by pollination and pest control.
For example, biodiversity net gain in the UK aims to ensure any habitat lost during development is replaced by more or better quality habitat.
Biodiversity units are estimated based on habitat size, quality, location, and type, however, this approach overlooks many habitat attributes crucial to invertebrates , running the risk that invertebrate biodiversity will not be protected.
In contrast to monitoring carbon sequestration associated with conservation projects, where the focal unit of measurement – a tonne of carbon – is unequivocally defined, biodiversity’s complexity requires a much more nuanced approach.
It is perhaps unrealistic to expect to reduce biodiversity down to a single measurable variable, without acknowledging that doing so will inevitably lose a huge amount of information on changes in biodiversity.
A better way to measure what matters
To measure something diverse and complex we need to accept that the monitoring approach should reflect that diversity and complexity, while balancing this with feasibility.
One way to increase the measurability of biodiversity is to structure the concept, breaking it down into component parts.
In 1990, conservation biologist Reed Noss developed a hierarchical framework, organising biodiversity into three axes: composition, structure, and function, which can be assessed at four scales (genetic, population, community, landscape).
If each axis represents a different aspect of biodiversity, then measuring metrics across the different axes should more widely capture biodiversity.
However, for each axis there are still many possible metrics that can be measured.
Returning practitioners - or anyone else who wants to measure biodiversity - back to their original predicament of selecting the best metrics to effectively assess biodiversity.
Our recent research developed an ecological monitoring framework for nature-based solutions projects, seeking to overcome this problem.
We reviewed 71 possible biodiversity metrics, ranking them based on how informative they are and how feasible they are to measure.
Of these, 30 metrics scored highly enough on both informativeness and feasibility to enter our framework.
These metrics were grouped into Tier 1, Tier 2, and Future metrics.
Tier 1 are the highest priority metrics in terms of informativeness and represent all three axes of biodiversity.
Future metrics are equally informative but currently too technically challenging or costly to measure.
Tier 2 metrics are informative but often less widely applicable than Tier 1 metrics.
These metrics are now freely available in a searchable database , allowing practitioners to identify suitable metrics for their projects based on criteria such as cost, technical expertise required, and availability of a standardised methodology for data collection.
As assessing biodiversity requires investment of time, expertise, and money, we want its results to be as impactful as possible.
Our database will channel the energy put into biodiversity monitoring towards cohesive, effective data collection, that widely captures change across the complexity of biodiversity, encouraging measurement of the different axes and scales of biodiversity.
Dr Emily Warner measuring biodiversity in the field.
Credit: Ella Browning Measuring biodiversity in the real world
We hope our database will help to navigate the huge pool of possible biodiversity metrics, highlighting the most useful metrics for assessing biodiversity and giving a clearer understanding of what information they provide.
The next step in any biodiversity monitoring plan is then getting out and collecting the data, ideally in a standardised way that will allow comparison between projects or to existing datasets.
The 'how' of biodiversity monitoring unmasks another layer of complexity, as for most of the metrics in the database there are multiple potential methods for data collection and decisions need to be made about a sampling plan.
In some cases, there are even different ways of calculating the final metric.
A large part of the research underpinning the development of our metrics database involved identifying existing standardised methodologies that could be used to collect data.
The increased interest in monitoring biodiversity could lead to a boom in biodiversity data, representing a huge opportunity to better understand the trajectory of biodiversity across a wider range of UK contexts, but also the potential risk of a missed opportunity to maximise the outcomes of this data collection effort.
By helping make these standardised metrics and methodologies available, we hope to encourage coordinated, large-scale biodiversity data collection to support effective biodiversity action and also highlight where more guidance is needed to support data collection on the ground.
Effective monitoring to turn the tide on biodiversity loss
Our monitoring tool aims to provide shortcuts to developing a monitoring approach, highlighting what different metrics tell us about biodiversity, connecting these to available methods and allowing practitioners to search these metrics based on key criteria.
If we want to bend the curve of biodiversity loss we need effective monitoring to understand how well our efforts to restore nature are working.
If we want to bend the curve of biodiversity loss we need effective monitoring to understand how well our efforts to restore nature are working.
We have been aware that biodiversity has been declining since before I was born and this continues to escalate.
My hope is that I will see the transition to a positive trend in biodiversity over the rest of my career and that this monitoring tool could be one small step on this pathway.
7 Jul 2025
Dr Marcia Zilli , Postdoctoral Research Assistant in Climate Dynamics , and Dr Neil Hart, UKRI Future Leaders Fellow, School of Geography and the Environment , explore the likelihood of increases in intense rainfall events alongside heatwaves in Brazil.
It has been a little over one year since the devastating floods in Rio Grande do Sul .
While Brazil has been spared a second flood of the same unprecedented scale, extreme rainfall events continue to hit.
Our results show that while the frequency of all tropical-extratropical cloud bands will reduce by a third, the most intense rain events - those ranked as a one-in-five event in the present climate - triple in likelihood by the end of the century for the highest greenhouse gas emissions scenario.
For example, on 11 th October 2024 the city of São Paulo was hit by an intense rain storm with winds over 100km/h leading to an electricity outage effecting more than two million people.
The outage lasted for 35 hours, but parts of the city remained without power for more than three days.
The economic losses ranged from damaged household appliances and spoiled food to hospitals having to discard large amounts of medication that must be kept under refrigeration.
The business and entertainment sector also faced large losses, with the financial impact of what was already a catastrophic event multiplied by the fact that the outage happened over the weekend.
In total, the economic losses are estimated in more than BRL 1.65 billion (equivalent to £200 million).
Our latest paper, ‘ Threefold increase in most intense South Atlantic convergence zone events by 2100 in convection-permitting simulation ’, produced in collaboration with Ron Kahana and Kate Halladay, senior researchers from the Met Office, investigates changes in the frequency and intensity of the weather system responsible for these severe storms under continued planetary warming.
In a typical Brazilian summer, large bands of cloud develop across South America spreading from the tropical Amazon forest southeastwards into the southern Ocean.
These are called tropical-extratropical cloud bands and produce up to two-thirds of annual rainfall across much of southeast Brazil.
However, intensely raining clusters of thunderstorms are embedded within these cloud bands.
It is these embedded rainstorms which create the natural disasters such as the São Paulo storm mentioned above and the massive landslides in Rio de Janeiro state that took place in January 2011, killing more than 200 people.
In our paper, we evaluated future climate projections based on a high-resolution state-of-art climate model.
Traditional climate models, such as those used in the latest IPCC report, have a spatial resolution of about 100km (think of these as pixels which the model can simulate) - too large to correctly represent intensely raining clusters of thunderstorms.
The new generation of models have a much finer spatial resolution - 4.5km - resulting in a more realistic representation of the localised heavy rainfall clusters.
This improvement happens because the physical equations governing thunderstorm development can be explicitly used by the model rather than the statistical approximations of thunderstorms used in traditional 100km resolution climate models.
Crucially, this cloud band intensification rate is far higher than that estimated in typical climate models, suggesting that this future rainfall risk has been underestimated in previous work.
These results imply a greater risk of flooding events as the planet continues to warm.
Furthermore, the reduced total frequency of cloud band events could result in both more frequent droughts and more frequent heat waves.
Focusing on drought-heatwave risks is the next step in our research.
Our team has recently started a new project under the Climate Science for Services Partnership – Brazil , managed by the Met Office, to diagnose the climate processes driving recent droughts in the northern Amazon and unprecedented compound drought-heatwaves extended across the eastern Amazon down to the coastal cities of Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro.
This work is being done in close collaboration with Brazilian national forecast and disaster warning agencies to support their crucial efforts to enhance forewarning and preparedness, with the goal of avoiding the devastation caused by growing risks in which weather flips from heatwaves to floods and back again.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news-and-events/oxford-people:
Quantum computing’s up-and-coming star
Celebrated conservationist EJ Milner-Gulland accentuates the positive
Archaeology can take us back to the future
Everything is political, says Ben Ansell, as he is named the new Reith lecturer
Using virtual reality (VR) treatments to bridge the gap between science and therapy
Professor Soumitra Dutta and AI, education and exciting times
Oxford’s Vice-Chancellor discusses her own research into chronic pain, and how collaboration is key in tackling some of the world’s great challenges
Mental health is not written in the stars – but some conditions can be determined even before birth
Professor Mina Fazel and her team are revolutionising the way mental health services are delivered to children
Director of the National Perinatal Epidemiology Unit, Professor Marian Knight is driving national change
Can improving our sleep help us improve our brain and mental health?
The Head of Oxford’s Department of Psychiatry is shedding light on the complexities of mental illness
Meet the Professor of Human Behaviour and Technology uncovering the impact of social media and gaming on mental health
Professor Cathy Creswell on establishing effective ways to help children with mental health issues
The dangers of asking questions and of not asking questions
I’d never been in a category before leaving my own country
Robert Hannigan on cyber crime, spying and the AI tsunami coming our way
Professor George Garnett on kings, crowns and ...
communism
Chaucer's Wife of Bath is saying women should be listened to, many people found this threatening
'The death penalty is not ok anywhere.'
The search for a revolution in mental health treatments - and an organ to play
The accidental computer expert, and the battle to make tech ethical, sustainable and fair
Professor Emma Smith and the importance of studying Humanities
Graham Ward on secular festivities and his long road to Oxford
Professor Daniela Ferreira discusses her journey from Brazil to Oxford
The enthusiastically scary Professor Mike Bonsall talks aliens, bio-threats and cool science
Professor Myles Allen, the physicist behind net zero
The Director of the MRC Weatherall Institute of Molecular Medicine on his appointment as the new Chief Scientist of Cancer Research UK
Professor Brenda Stevenson would surely be in the running
Sir Dieter Helm on strong opinions, prime ministers and making an impact
Professor Ngaire Woods, the founding head of Oxford's Blavatnik School of Government
Professor Nick Eyre on 34 years as an environmentalist
COVID modeller Professor Christl Donnelly on making a difference
Byron Byrne gets things done
International Relations Professor Neil MacFarlane takes a long view
Dame Valerie Amos and her journey from Guyana to the Garter
Bodley’s Librarian Richard Ovenden on transforming scholarship, protecting democracy and Man U
Social Sciences head Professor Timothy Power talks politics, power and his road to Oxford
Now William Whyte is steering a new future for universities - among other roles
Professor Chas Bountra and Oxford's innovative future
Dr Vlad Mykhnenko and the devastating invasion of his Ukraine home
Says the in-demand (and amazing) Professor Lucie Cluver
Professor Dan Grimley at the helm of Oxford's Humanities
Professor Henrietta Harrison and the hidden histories of China
Why archaeology is not all treasure, trowels and Indiana Jones
Professor Alister McGrath on faith, CS Lewis and Christmas
Professor Dominic Wilkinson talks COVID, ethics and the next pandemic
Professor Dapo Akande, the very genial new UN law expert
ruins, rocks, rubble and winning a certain gold medal
Sir Charles Godfray and the enormous challenges of climate and feeding the world
Sudhir Hazareesingh on heroes...and villains
Oxford law professor Lavanya Rajamani and why climate talks matter
Robert Scotland argues we need hard science to 'save' the natural world
Professor Abigail Williams on Dead Poets, dangerous novels and her love for literature
Yadvinder Malhi and why rainforest diversity is critical
The prime of Professor Dame Kay Davies
The pleasantly terrifying Dr Fredi Otto talks extreme climate events
Philip Stier and why you shouldn't look up the same way again
The dedicated and disruptive Melinda Mills takes a (quick) break
Cameron Hepburn: More Skippy than Crocodile Dundee
Martin Landray, co-leader of the Covid RECOVERY trial, estimated to have saved a million lives
The wild lives of Nathalie Seddon
Leading academics and researchers from across the University's divisions talk about their lives, their work and their paths to Oxford.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news-and-events/filming-in-oxford:
There is no central office for obtaining permission to film at Oxford University.
Colleges and departments, including libraries and museums, make their own decisions about permitting filming and in almost every case you will need to contact the relevant person at each place you wish to film.
General advice on filming in Oxford is provided below.
Please note that Oxford is not a campus university and is administratively very devolved.
This means that there is no single office which can grant blanket permission for filming on university and college premises.
In the majority of cases you will need to contact each location at which you wish to film.
Please note that colleges and departments will take time to consider your request, and in most cases you should not expect to be given permission to film with less than a week’s notice.
The News & Information Office may be able to provide limited assistance but please bear in mind that we receive many requests of this nature and are not able to respond positively to all of them.
The nature of the assistance we can provide varies, but we may be able to assist with, for example, identifying who you need to contact to film at different locations within the university, suggesting suitable interviewees, or providing background briefing and information on Oxford University.
If your film is about the University of Oxford, please email [email protected] setting out:
Note that permission is not usually granted to film at lectures or graduation ceremonies.
Companies applying to film on university or college premises must hold valid public liability insurance.
All requests are subject to the approval of the relevant college, department, etc.
If you are interested in using a University location for a feature film, drama production, documentary or other production that is not about the University of Oxford, you will need to discuss your needs with the individual locations.
For help finding the right people, contact the Public Affairs Directorate's Creative Media Team at [email protected] .
Please note that production companies using University and college locations for filming of this nature may be asked for a fee.
Companies will be required to sign contractual agreement with the relevant college or department, and must hold valid public liability insurance.
For advice on filming in parts of Oxford which are not part of the University of Oxford, including filming on public roads and footpaths, please see the information provided by Oxford City Council .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news-and-events/find-an-expert:
Are you a journalist looking for an Oxford academic to provide expert comment and/or background briefing on a story?
Find An Expert offers journalists quick and easy access to Oxford academics who may be able to help.
If you cannot locate an expert using this service, please contact the News and Information Office for additional advice.
We may be able to suggest someone who is not listed here, and we also hold alternative contact details for a number of academics.
Oxford academics who are interested in appearing in Find An Expert or in other media work should contact the News and Information Office or complete this form .
For Oxford University Press experts in words, language use and lexicography, please contact the Publicity department at Oxford University Press (tel: 01865 353058, email: [email protected] ).
If you want to employ an Oxford academic as a consultant or expert witness, please contact the Consulting Services team at Oxford University Innovation.
Please note that this site is only for use by journalists.
Unfortunately, our experts are not able to provide advice to members of the public.
Thomas Hale is Professor in Public Policy (Global Public Policy) at the Blavatnik School of Government and explores how we can manage transnational problems effectively and fairly.
Professor Hale co-leads the Net Zero Tracker and the Net Zero Regulation and Policy Hub .
Nathalie Seddon is Professor of Biodiversity and Founding Director of the Nature-based Solutions Initiative in the Department of Biology at the University of Oxford.
She is also Director of the Agile Initiative and advises governments and the private sector on nature-based solutions.
Philip Stier is Professor of Atmospheric Physics and Head of Atmospheric, Oceanic and Planetary Physics in Oxford’s Department of Physics.
His main research interests are in clouds and aerosol physics, their interactions and relationship to the climate.
He is a key figure in environmental research and works to understand the relationship between clouds and climate change.
Dr Radhika Khosla is Associate Professor at the Smith School of Enterprise and Environment.
Her interdisciplinary research examines the productive tensions between urban transitions, energy services consumption and climate change, with a focus on developing country cities.
Myles Allen is Professor of Geosystem Science and his research looks into how human and natural influences contribute to observed climate change.
His research also stresses the importance on current fossil carbon reserves and that if the 2°C increase in global warming is to be avoided, these reserves cannot be emitted.
Dr Katrina Charles is Associate Professor and Senior Research Fellow at the School of Geography and the Environment.
Dr Charles' research focuses on environmental health risks, using interdisciplinary approaches to analyse how we construct our understanding of environmental health risks, and how to communicate those risks to affect change.
Yadvinder Malhi CBE FRS is Professor of Ecosystem Science at the Environmental Change Institute and explores the functioning of the biosphere and its interactions with global change, including climate change.
Dr Steve Smith, Arnell Associate Professor of Greenhouse Gas Removal, leads two major climate research initiatives based at the Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment, focusing on net zero and greenhouse gas removal.
Dawn Chatty, Professor of Anthropology and Forced Migration, is a social anthropologist whose research interests include a number of forced migration and development issues such as conservation-induced displacement, tribal resettlement, modern technology and social change, gender and development and the impact of prolonged conflict on refugee young people.
Sam Fankhauser, Professor of Climate Change Economics and Policy at the Smith School and the School of Geography and the Environment, works at the intersection of research and public policy and is interested in the policy interventions and governance arrangements that are needed for a smooth transition to net zero greenhouse gas emissions.
Dr Sugandha Srivastav is a lecturer in Environmental Economics at the Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment.
Dr Srivastav’s research focuses on bringing clean technologies to market, exploring the role of contracts in the power sector, and policies for climate mitigation in the Global South.
Dr Laurence Wainwright is a Departmental Lecturer and Course Director at the Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment.
He has provided expert opinion on a broad range of sustainability issues – particularly the intersection of environment and health.
If you are looking for additional experts that are not listed in the Find an Expert database or would like support contacting our experts please email [email protected] .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about:
Oxford is a world-leading centre of learning, teaching and research and the oldest university in the English-speaking world.
Dates of term, dates of full term, dates of extended terms and dates for Encaenia
Oxford University can lay claim to nine centuries of continuous existence
Oxford is divided into four academic divisions, each with numerous departments, faculties and schools
Find facts and statistics on Oxford University here - from the student body to research and awards
A-Z of Colleges and Permanent Private Halls including links to visit their websites
Don't know your sub-fusc from your viva?
Check out our Oxford glossary and all will become clear
A study has measured Oxford University’s impact on the UK economy

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/organisation:
Oxford is an independent and self-governing institution consisting of the University, its divisions, departments and faculties, and the colleges.
The 36 colleges and three societies are a core element of the University, to which they are related via a federal system.
Each college is independent and self-governing, having a charter approved by the Privy Council, under which it is governed by a Head of House, elected and appointed by the governing body directly.
The governing body comprises a number of Fellows, most of whom also hold University posts.
The three societies – Kellogg College, Reuben College and St Cross College – operate very much like the other colleges but are considered departments of the University rather than independent colleges because, unlike the others, they do not have a royal charter.
One of the main differences is that the governing body recommends a president, who is then appointed by Council.
There are also four permanent private halls , which were founded by different Christian denominations, and still retain their religious character today.
Undergraduates are admitted to 32 of the colleges and permanent private halls.
All colleges accept applications from mature students, while Harris Manchester College is solely for mature students.
Students sitting on the steps of Merton College Campion Hall and Green Templeton, Kellogg, Linacre, Nuffield, Reuben, St Antony’s, St Cross and Wolfson Colleges admit only postgraduate students.
All Souls is unique among Oxford colleges because it has no student members; all are Fellows, except the Warden.
University, Balliol, and Merton Colleges are the oldest and were established by the 13th century.
Green Templeton, which came into existence in 2008 following the merger of Green and Templeton Colleges, is the University’s newest college, and Reuben College, which was founded by the University in 2019, is the newest society.
If you are interested in undergraduate study at Oxford, please consult our information on colleges for prospective undergraduates .
Oxford University is divided into four academic divisions.
Within these divisions are numerous departments, faculties and schools.
Oxford’s museums, libraries and collections provide an outstanding resource for the University and work closely with divisions to deliver teaching.
Oxford University Press, one of the largest and most successful university print presses in the world, is also a department of the University, while the Department for Continuing Education exists to enable Oxford to reach students beyond the full-time student body.
All have a full-time divisional head and an elected divisional board:
The Humanities Division brings together nine faculties plus the Rothermere American Institute, the Ruskin School of Art and the Voltaire Foundation.
The faculties are among the largest in the world, enabling Oxford to offer an education in arts and humanities from music and fine art to ancient and modern languages.
Oxford was named as the best university in the world for arts and humanities in the 2022 QS World University Rankings by Subject.
The Mathematical, Physical and Life Sciences Division is home to the non-medical sciences at Oxford.
The nine academic departments in the division span the full spectrum of mathematical, computational, physical, engineering and life sciences, and undertake both research and cutting-edge applied work.
In the Times Higher Education subject rankings for 2025, Oxford was ranked first in the world for computer science for the seventh year in a row.
The Medical Sciences Division is the largest of the four academic divisions within the University and is internationally recognised as a centre of excellence for biomedical and clinical research and teaching.
In the Times Higher Education subject rankings for 2025, Oxford was, for the 14th year running, ranked first in the world for medical and health subjects.
The Social Sciences Division brings together departments, faculties and schools committed to tackling some of the major challenges facing humanity, such as sustainable resource management, migration, global governance, justice, poverty and development.
In the Times Higher Education subject rankings for 2024, Oxford was the highest ranked university from the UK and Europe in Social Sciences.
Giant Amazonian waterlilies at Oxford Botanic Garden G ardens, L ibraries A nd M useums of Oxford University are collectively known by the acronym GLAM, and form one of the greatest concentrations of university collections in the world.
Comprising over 21 million objects, specimens and printed items, they constitute one of the largest and most important research repositories, enabling GLAM to work closely with academic departments to deliver teaching and provide students access to important material for their study, as well as drawing scholars from all over the world.
Oxford University Press (OUP) is one of the largest university press publishers in the world.
It has become familiar to millions through a diverse publishing programme that includes scholarly works in all academic disciplines, bibles, sheet music, school and college textbooks, children’s books, materials for teaching English as a foreign language, dictionaries and academic journals.
OUP is a department of the University, and shares the mission to further excellence in research, scholarship and education by publishing worldwide.
It currently publishes thousands of new titles a year across the globe.
The Department for Continuing Education is one of the largest providers of continuing adult education for lifelong learning in the UK.
It enrols more than 15,000 students from all over the world on hundreds of part-time programmes each year, including undergraduate and postgraduate qualifications, from certificates and diplomas to masters’ and doctoral degrees, online courses, short courses, day schools, lectures and weekend events, continuing professional development courses, and summer programmes.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/organisation/university-officers/vice-chancellor:
Professor Irene Tracey, CBE, FRS, FMedSci, became Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oxford on 1 January 2023.
She was previously Warden of Merton College, Oxford, her alma mater.
She is also Professor of Anaesthetic Neuroscience in the Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences.
Irene did her undergraduate and graduate studies at the University of Oxford in Biochemistry under the supervision of Professor Sir George Radda.
Her research focused on the early use of magnetic resonance imaging methods to study disease mechanisms in humans.
She then held a postdoctoral position at Harvard Medical School working at the MGH-NMR (now Martinos) imaging centre.
Professor Irene Tracey Credit: John Cairns
Credit: John Cairns
In 1997, Irene returned to Oxford and was a founding member of the Oxford Centre for Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging of the Brain (FMRIB – now the world-leading Wellcome Centre for Integrative Neuroimaging); she was its director for ten years.
Irene was tenured in 2001 at what is now the Department of Physiology, Anatomy and Genetics with Studentship at Christ Church, where she is an Honorary Fellow.
From 2007 until 2019, Irene held the Nuffield Chair in Anaesthetic Sciences with Fellowship at Pembroke College, where she is an Honorary Fellow.
From 2015 to 2019 she was also Head of the Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences – a 550-person department of scientists and clinicians drawn from neurology, ophthalmology, and anaesthetics.
She will continue to teach undergraduate medics about pain and imaging through lectures and the occasional tutorial.
Prior to becoming Vice-Chancellor, she returned to her alma mater and became Merton College’s Warden, where she is now an Honorary Fellow.
Alongside senior leadership roles within the University, Irene has served on many national and international committees, such as the International Association for the Study of Pain (IASP), British Neuroscience Association and Lundbeck Brain Prize Committee.
She was on the Council of the Medical Research Council, and has just finished in 2024 being President of the Federation of European Neuroscience Societies (FENS).
She is a passionate advocate for women in science and is involved in several mentorship schemes.
Over the past 25 years her multidisciplinary research team has contributed to a better understanding of pain perception, pain relief and nociceptive processing within the injured and non-injured human central nervous system using advanced neuroimaging techniques and novel paradigm designs.
They have also been investigating the neural basis of altered states of consciousness induced by anaesthetic agents.
Her work has both discovery and translational elements and has contributed to a fundamental change in how we view pain as an emergent experience not simply related to nociceptive inputs.
Irene has successfully supervised over 35 DPhil (PhD) students from a range of basic science and clinical backgrounds, and supervised and mentored many postdoctoral (clinical and basic) fellows.
She has been awarded many honours, such as: triennial Patrick Wall Medal (2008) and FRCA (2009) from Royal College of Anaesthetists; Fellow Academy of Medical Sciences (2015); Feldberg Foundation Prize (2017); British Neuroscience Association’s Outstanding Contribution to Neuroscience (2018); Commander of the Order of the British Empire for services to Medical Research (2022); Honorary Fellow Physiological Society (2022); Honorary Membership British Pain Society (2023); Fellow of the Royal Society (2023); Honorary Fellow Royal Society of Medicine (2024).
You can read the Royal Society citation for Professor Irene Tracey in full here .
Professor Tracey is married to Professor Myles Allen and they have three children.
Vice-Chancellor's Office University Offices Wellington Square Oxford OX1 2JD Enquiries : [email protected]
Head of the Vice-Chancellor’s Office Elizabeth Botwright - 01865 280458
Senior Executive Assistant to the Vice-Chancellor Monica Seeney - 01865 270243
PA to the Vice-Chancellor Jessica Dancy - 01865 270153
In the first year of her term, the Vice-Chancellor launched a podcast series: Fire & Wire .
Building on her goal to ‘fire and wire’ the University, the Hebbian principle she shared in her Admission speech , the podcast highlights University communities and brings interesting Oxford stories to you.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/facts-and-figures:
(¹ Largest volume of world-leading research is calculated from the sum of (overall %4* x submitted FTE) across all submissions.)

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/oxford-people:
With more than 22,000 students, 13,000 staff and 230,000 alumni around the world, people are what make Oxford an internationally renowned university.
Gifted men and women have studied or taught at the University throughout its history.
Thirty-one British Prime Ministers have been educated at Oxford University.
Oxford academics have won Nobel Prizes, Fields Medals, Balzan Prizes and Rolf Schock prizes.
The Vice-Chancellor’s Awards are a University-wide celebration of our outstanding people.
They celebrate excellence, dedication, courage, ambition and inspirational contributions to Oxford’s mission.
Oxford University has a proud Olympic heritage stretching right back to the Games of the I Olympiad in 1896.
Celebrating women’s contribution to scholarship and to progressive change at Oxford.
Oxford University has welcomed many eminent visitors to carry out such roles as officially opening buildings and delivering lectures.
Download a PDF list here .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/international-oxford:
Oxford's international profile rivals that of any university in the world, highlighted by the breadth and depth of its research collaborations and a truly global student body and academic staff.
Oxford University has connections worldwide.
Click on the map to find out more.
Asia - East | Asia - South East | Asia - South and Central | Europe | Middle East & North Africa | Oceania | North America & Central America & The Caribbean | South America | Sub-Saharan Africa
Oxford University Welcome Service

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/building-our-future:
Oxford's estate accommodates the day-to-day teaching, learning, research and administrative activities of the central University.
It includes some of the oldest and finest buildings in the city as well as showcasing much newer, state-of-the-art architecture.
The land and buildings owned by the 39 colleges and 5 permanent private halls are not part of the University estate, because colleges are self-governing and financially-independent institutions.
Together, the central university and the colleges make up the collegiate university.
The University estate is managed by the Estates Services department .
Registered with the Considerate Constructors Scheme
Interactive map
Estates Services website
Contact Estates Services

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/cn:
作为世界闻名的顶尖学府，牛津大学在过去数百年间里一直以其在教育、科研、医药、数学、经济及历史等各领域所取得的卓越成就而著称。
如今，牛津大学拥有约250项本科课程，以及超过300项研究生课程，其吸引了超过两万两千名学生在此就读。其中，约百分之四十的牛津学生来自世界各地。
牛津大学是英国最大的科研中心。学校在世界顶尖刊物刊发的科研学术报告超过英国任何其他大学。同时，牛津大学也是全英拥有科研专利最多的学术机构，其下公司超过百余家。目前，牛津地区的一千五百多家高科技企业中，多数都与学校有着深度合作。

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/students:
Welcome to the Oxford students' website.
Support continues over the summer
Steps you can take to support Oxford's inclusive and welcoming environment
Get your student life sorted with your digital companion to Oxford.
The University will keep you informed with about important news, opportunities and events via the Student News email newsletter (sent every other Monday during term time), the MyOxford student app , and @OxUniStudents Instagram .
If you have any questions during your time here, please speak to your college in the first instance (or your department, if you don't have a college).
*Induction events, teaching and examinations may take place outside of these dates; check with your college for when you should be in residence before making travel arrangements.
View future term dates - also available in iCal, CSV and Google calendar format .
Access Student Self Service
Student News emails return in 0th Week Michaelmas term.
Archive of Oxford Student News

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/engage-with-us/local-community:
'Oxford University has a duty to support the community in which it lives, and to work in partnership so that, together, we set collective ambitions for all our people.' - Professor Irene Tracey, Vice-Chancellor
We are committed to sharing our treasures, our research and our passion for learning
The University's many museums and collections are free to the public
Oxford Sparks is the place to explore and discover science research from the University.
Tap into the fun exercises created by some of our researchers.
The Department for Continuing Education offers part-time, flexible courses and programmes for adult learners.
Visit one of the most beautiful green spaces in the heart of Oxford, the University Parks.
Just a few of the things that the University offers to local people and businesses.
The University hosts a range of interesting and engaging activities for all, for example, did you know that you can get a free permit to visit Wytham Woods?
Or, that you can participate in any of the fun experiments created by the researchers and shared by the Oxford Sparks team?
Watch the video to learn more or explore this section for an insight into how we engage with the community.
Beyond Town and Gown: Working towards a more inclusive Oxford

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2025-08-27-four-oxford-researchers-recognised-2025-royal-society-awards:
The annual Royal Society Awards recognise exceptional research achievements through a series of prestigious medals and prizes.
Of the 27 awards for 2024-25 , announced today, four honour Oxford University researchers for their outstanding contributions to scientific discovery, public engagement and research culture.
Sir Adrian Smith, President of the Royal Society, said: ‘The recipients of this year’s medals and awards have all made outstanding contributions to science and its applications for the benefit of humanity.
They have done so by furthering our understanding of the processes that govern the world around us, changing the practices of academia to build a more robust and inclusive research environment, and engaging new audiences.
Celebrating these diverse contributions is core to the Society’s mission and I offer my congratulations to all the 2025 recipients.’
Professor Sir Rory Collins (Oxford Population Health): awarded the Buchanan Medal for leading practice altering cardiovascular clinical trials and leading the UK Biobank .
I am delighted to receive the Buchanan Medal.
This award recognises the importance of our cardiovascular clinical trials which have changed routine care worldwide and prevented many premature deaths.
It also recognises the work of UK Biobank, a prospective study of 500,000 British men and women that enables scientists around the world to create better ways to diagnose, prevent and treat many different diseases.
Professor Sir Rory Collins (Oxford Population Health)
Professor Collins is an epidemiologist who studies how to prevent and treat chronic disease in large population-based studies.
Notable achievements from his career include coordinating the ISIS “mega-trials” which demonstrated that low-cost, widely accessible, clot-dissolving and clot-preventing treatments could halve the risk of death during a heart attack.
He was also involved in conducting the 20,000 patient Heart Protection Study which showed that lowering LDL-cholesterol with statin therapy safely reduces the risk of death and disability from cardiovascular disease among a much wider range of people than thought likely to benefit.
As a consequence, statin therapy is now used extensively worldwide.
Professor Collins became the Principal Investigator and Chief Executive of UK Biobank in 2005.
Involving 500,000 participants from across the UK, it is the largest deeply-characterised prospective study of disease globally, readily accessible for any type of health research that is in the public interest.
Over 20,000 researchers worldwide currently use it to better understand how to prevent and treat many different diseases, generating over 5000 scientific papers in 2024 alone.
Professor Kayla King , Department of Biology: awarded the Francis Crick Medal and Lecture for contributions to the fields of evolutionary biology and genetics of infectious disease.
It is an immense privilege to have my research recognised by the Royal Society.
I feel fortunate every day to be able to think about science and make new discoveries, together with my brilliant students and excellent colleagues.
I am thrilled that my fields, evolutionary biology, ecology, and genetics of infectious disease, are being highlighted by this Award.
Professor Kayla King , Department of Biology
Professor King specialises in testing evolutionary theory using host-pathogen interactions.
To do this, she uses a range of methods, including evolving bacterial and viral pathogens in animals (e.g., nematode worms) in the lab; using bioinformatics to identify genomic signatures of pathogen adaptation; and computationally exploring evolutionary patterns across various animal and pathogen species.
Her work has provided significant new insights into why some pathogens are more virulent or contagious than others.
She has also demonstrated that rising temperatures can impact virulence, highlighting the potential impact of climate change on infectious disease transmission.
Her findings have also revealed the crucial role of biodiversity in shaping pathogen virulence, showing that the loss of genetic diversity in host populations can drive disease spread and evolution.
Through exploring the genomes of bacteria and viruses, her work has led to better understanding of the possible evolutionary pathways of pathogens as they adapt to new host species.
This could help inform wildlife conservation and strategies to combat zoonotic diseases.
Professor Philipp Kukura , Department of Chemistry : awarded the Clifford Paterson Medal and Lecture for pioneering and democratising mass photometry, a novel means of mass measurement for single biomolecules.
I am delighted to receive this honour, a recognition of the advances in life science research that are being enabled by breakthroughs in fundamental physical sciences.
Professor Philipp Kukura , Department of Chemistry
Professor Kukura develops new optical methods that allow us to understand the basis of biomolecular function and regulation.
Currently, his focus is mass photometry, light-scattering-based detection, imaging, and mass measurement of single biomolecules in solution.
These approaches are used to "weigh" biomolecules, by assessing them one at a time, with this information then applied to find out what they are made of and how they interact.
This can help us to understand how processes in a healthy body work, and what changes in the context of disease.
Ultimately, this could help design new routes to intervention.
Based in the Kavli Institute for Nanoscience Discovery at Oxford, a highly interdisciplinary environment across departments, disciplines and divisions, Professor Kukura fosters a strongly collaborative approach to research.
His current work falls into two major categories:  1.
Evolving mass photometry from a technological perspective to enable access to the full breath of biomolecular interactions.
Development of new assays to provide unique insight into biomolecular mechanisms.
Professor Michael Wooldridge , Department of Computer Science: awarded the Michael Faraday Prize and Lecture for award-winning work as a leading researcher, educator and commentator in the field of Artificial Intelligence (AI) whose popular science books, lectures and media appearances have informed millions.
I am stunned and beyond delighted to be recognised for this work by receiving the Faraday Prize and Lecture from the Royal Society.
Just as I could never have imagined how far my field would come, so I could never have expected to be recognised in this way.
Professor Michael Wooldridge , Department of Computer Science
Professor Wooldridge has worked in AI for more than 35 years.
He is one of founders of the field of multi-agent systems – concerned with building AI programs (“agents”) that operate on our behalf, possibly working with other AI agents while doing so.
Besides a prodigious scholarly output – including 450 scientific articles – Professor Wooldridge has significantly advanced understanding of AI among the public.
He has written nine books, translated ten times, including two popular science introductions to AI: the ‘Ladybird Expert Guide to AI’, and ‘The Road to Conscious Machines.’ He gives frequent public lectures on AI, including the 2023 Royal Institution Christmas Lectures, and his career was profiled in the 300th edition of BBC Radio 4’s ‘The Life Scientific.’ He has given evidence on AI to multiple government committees and in 2023 was appointed Specialist Advisor to the House of Lords inquiry on Large Language Models and Generative AI.
Further information about the awards can be found on the Royal Society website .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2025-08-25-oxford-university-spinout-organox-be-acquired-terumo-record-15bn:
An agreement has been reached for the acquisition of OrganOx , a pioneering University of Oxford spinout transforming kidney and liver transplantation, by Terumo Corporation, a global medical technology company headquartered in Tokyo, Japan, for US$1.5 billion.
The transaction, which is subject to regulatory and other approvals, would be the largest acquisition of an Oxford University spinout to date, and one of the most significant venture capital exits in UK university spinout history.
Founded in 2008 by engineering professor Constantin Coussios OBE FREng FMedSci and transplant surgeon professor Peter Friend FMedSci, OrganOx originated from Oxford’s Institute of Biomedical Engineering and the Nuffield Department of Surgical Sciences.
The company has since become a leader in advanced organ preservation technology.
OrganOx specialises in organ preservation devices that keep donor organs functioning outside the body for significantly longer than traditional methods.
Using a technique known as Normothermic Machine Perfusion (NMP), its devices circulate warm, oxygenated fluid through the organ, replicating conditions inside the human body.
This enables clinicians to assess organ function in real time and make better-informed decisions about transplantation.
Organ during Metra Perfusion Fully Warm
The technology has increased the number of viable organs available for transplant, including those from marginal donors, while reducing the need for emergency and night-time procedures.
OrganOx systems have been used in more than 6,000 transplants worldwide and were recently recognised with The Royal Academy of Engineering 's MacRobert Award, the longest running and most prestigious prize for UK engineering innovation, for its life-saving technology that is supporting more organ transplants and helping to cut waiting lists.
Oxford University was an early investor in OrganOx, supporting the company with proof-of-concept funding via the University Challenge Seed Fund and investing further through the Spinout Equity Management Fund.
Transportability by air as well as by road is a key feature of the OrganOx metra device
Professor Constantin Coussios , Director of Oxford University's Institute of Biomedical Engineering and co-founder of OrganOx, said: 'This technology was born from a deep collaboration between engineering and clinical science within the Institute of Biomedical Engineering, uniquely enabled by Oxford’s unparalleled cross-disciplinary innovation ecosystem.
From the outset our aim was to solve one of transplantation’s greatest challenges: preserving organs in a viable state for longer, so at to make it possible to assess and potentially transplant what was previously thought untransplantable.
Seeing that vision realised for the benefit of patients across four continents has been incredibly rewarding, and this acquisition will further enhance the global reach and impact of Oxford’s innovative science.'
Professor Peter Friend , transplant surgeon, Director of the Oxford Transplant Centre from 2000 to 2022 and co-founder of OrganOx, said: 'As a clinician, I’ve seen first-hand the limitations of traditional organ preservation.
OrganOx technology is transforming the landscape of organ transplantation, with huge impact on both patients and surgeons.
The success of this venture results from a highly effective synergy between two academic departments, Surgical Sciences and Biomedical Engineering, and the University of Oxford’s support has been instrumental in translating our research into real-world impact.'
Professor Irene Tracey, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oxford, said: 'OrganOx’s success is a powerful example of how Oxford’s research can transform lives.
This landmark acquisition not only celebrates a pioneering technology but also affirms the strength of our innovation ecosystem - built on deep collaboration, bold investment, and world-class science.
It marks a proud moment for the University and signals the scale of impact we will continue to deliver through our world-leading research and associated spinouts.'
The OrganOx metra device maintains the liver at normal body temperature prior to transplantation and actively delivers oxygenated blood, medications and nutrients Credit: OrganOx
Credit: OrganOx
Adam Workman , Head of Investments and Ventures at Oxford University Innovation , commented: 'OrganOx’s acquisition is a landmark moment for Oxford University’s innovation ecosystem.
It reflects the strength of our spinout model and the long-term value of investing in transformative science from the earliest stages.'

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2025-08-15-platelets-shown-store-dna-study-could-transform-cancer-screening:
Image credit: Getty Images (Peddalanka Ramesh Babu)
Oxford-led study uncovers previously unknown function of platelets as DNA ‘vacuum cleaners’ in the blood, with profound implications for cancer diagnosis and prenatal screening.
Researchers at the University of Oxford have discovered an unexpected and powerful new function for platelets - the tiny blood cells primarily known for their role in blood clotting.
The Cancer Research UK-funded study, published in Science , demonstrates that platelets also act as scavengers, capturing and storing fragments of DNA that are circulating in the blood, including fetal DNA and mutated DNA from cancer cells.
Analysis of platelet DNA via a simple blood test was found to reveal the presence of even “pre-cancerous” changes - indicating this may be a powerful technique for the early detection and prevention of cancer.
It is already known that fragments of DNA are released into the bloodstream by dead and dying cells.
Too much of this “cell-free” DNA is harmful, causing unwanted activation of immune cells or other health complications.
Exactly how the body protects against this is not known.
The current study suggests that platelets internalise these DNA fragments, thereby playing an important role in clearing DNA fragments from the blood.
">Video of Platelets sequester cell-free DNA!!
Remarkably, the team, led by researchers at the MRC Weatherall Institute of Molecular Medicine , found evidence of fetal DNA within the platelets of pregnant mothers, and mutated DNA in platelets from patients diagnosed with cancer and even those with pre-cancerous conditions.
These findings offer new possibilities to refine and improve genetic testing methods used today.
Analysis of DNA fragments in the blood is emerging as an important screening method in a number of healthcare settings.
However, current approaches discard the platelets and only focus on platelet-depleted blood plasma.
The postdoctoral researcher who led the project, Lauren Murphy , said: 'Our study suggests that platelets might be even more important for our health than we previously realised.
It also indicates that current liquid biopsy screening methods are overlooking valuable genetic information that is contained within platelets.
Our finding that platelets contain cell-free DNA means the sensitivity of cancer screening tests can be improved, enabling cancers to be detected much earlier than has previously been possible.'
The research team is optimistic that future applications could lead to earlier detection of cancers and other genetic disorders, improving patient outcomes.
Bethan Psaila, Professor of Haematology at the University of Oxford and senior author for the study, said: 'Our discovery that platelets act as tiny DNA dust-busters in the blood was unexpected.
One lucky consequence of this is that platelets bear hallmarks of DNA damage that has occurred in all tissues in our body - and analysis of platelets can potentially improve screening tests, including for cancer.
This study was a team effort with the Universities of Edinburgh and Swansea and we are hugely grateful to our many collaborators, to Cancer Research UK who funded the study, and in particular to all patients who donate samples for scientific research.'
Dr David Crosby, Head of Prevention and Early Detection Research at Cancer Research UK, which funded the study, said: 'Platelets do not have any DNA of their own and it’s interesting and potentially important that they can internalise cancer DNA circulating in the bloodstream.
This discovery means that many more parts of a blood sample could be used to find cancers earlier, long before any symptoms appear.
It may find clues of cancer that have previously been overlooked.
'Blood tests that can find tiny fragments of DNA shed from tumours are already in development.
These ‘liquid biopsies’ have huge potential in the clinic, both for early detection and to detect cancers that are coming back after treatment.
This discovery could dramatically expand that research into new blood tests which use DNA gathered by platelets.
'Further research will be needed to assess which parts of platelet DNA provide the most useful information about cancer and how blood tests can look for them accurately.
But this discovery moves us a step closer to finding better ways to catch cancer earlier, when treatment is more likely to be successful.'
The paper ‘ Platelets sequester extracellular DNA, capturing tumor-derived and free fetal DNA ’, is published in Science .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/event/summer-family-fun-treasured-4:
What do you treasure most?
Discover precious and unexpected treasures of the Bodleian and enjoy exhibition trails, stories, crafts and keepsake printing.
Craft activities are most suitable for children aged 4–11, but all are welcome.
Free and no booking required – just drop in!

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/event/summer-art-challenge-36:
Entry via the Oxford University Museum of Natural History, Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3RW
Use your creative side to see the Museum in new ways!
Collect your mystery Art Challenge from our 'Inspiration Station' on the first floor.
Use our drawing materials or bring your own - our volunteers are here to help!
Free, drop-in drawing activity led by museum volunteers.
Suitable for any age - all welcome to take the challenge!

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/strategicplan:
The University Strategic Plan sets out a framework of priorities for the University, its divisions and departments.
The Conference of Colleges has been consulted during the drafting of the plan and colleges will be vital partners in its implementation.
The strategic plan will be underpinned by a more detailed implementation plan overseen by a programme board chaired by the Vice-Chancellor reporting to PRAC on a termly basis and, through it, to Council on an annual basis.
The annual reports are also published on the University website (behind single sign-on).
The advancement of learning by teaching and research and its dissemination by every means.
We will work as one Oxford bringing together our staff, students and alumni, our colleges, faculties, departments and divisions to provide world-class research and education.
We will do this in ways which benefit society on a local, regional, national and global scale.
We will build on the University’s long-standing traditions of independent scholarship and academic freedom while fostering a culture in which innovation and collaboration play an important role.
We are committed to equality of opportunity, to engendering inclusivity, and to supporting staff and student wellbeing, ensuring that the very best students and staff can flourish in our community.
We believe that a diverse staff and student body strengthens our research and enhances our students’ learning.
The University’s distinctive democratic structure, born of its history, will continue to offer a source of strength.
Likewise Oxford’s collegiate structure provides the University with key aspects of its academic strength and its highly attractive student experience.
Oxford will continue to foster the interdisciplinary nature of the colleges, their teaching strength, and their defining and enduring sense of community.
The University is asking for feedback from staff on its draft Strategic Plan for 2025 to 2030 (requires SSO log-in)
(requires SSO log-in)

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/students/fees-funding:
Information and advice about course fees and a guide to budgeting for your living costs, as well as sources for financial assistance, scholarships, prizes and awards and international opportunities.
Calculate how much it will cost you to study and live in Oxford.
Information on fees whatever your student status or level of study.
Information on government and University support to help you fund your studies.
Includes securing external funding, undertaking paid work and loans .
Information on tax credits for US and Canadian students.
A range of scholarships and exchange programmes to support study abroad.
Details on the funding and other support available to students towards meeting their costs
Discover how undergraduate and postgraduate students manage their finances.
The Financial Statements for 2023/24 are published on the University’s Finance and Funding webpage .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/support-researchers/information-and-data-services/libraries:
Oxford meets the needs of its students, academics and the international research community with a wide range of library services provided by more than 100 libraries, making it the largest library system in the UK.
The Bodleian Libraries at the University of Oxford is the largest university library system in the United Kingdom.
It includes the principal University library – the Bodleian Library – which has been a legal deposit library for 400 years; as well as 30 libraries across Oxford including major research libraries and faculty, department and institute libraries.
Together, the Libraries hold more than 12 million printed items, over 80,000 e-journals and outstanding special collections including rare books and manuscripts, classical papyri, maps, music, art and printed ephemera.
Members of the public can explore the collections via the Bodleian’s online image portal at digital.bodleian.ox.ac.uk or by visiting the exhibition galleries in the Bodleian’s Weston Library.
For more information, visit www.bodleian.ox.ac.uk .
Is the University’s main research library and a legal deposit library.
It is the second largest in the UK after the British Library.
Visit the Bodleian Library website .
Every College has its own library, often consisting of a modern, working library and older collections.
See more information on College libraries .
The University also houses many departmental and museum libraries, such as the Museum of the History of Science Library and the Oxford University Museum of Natural History Library.
Further information on all University libraries can be found using the ' Libraries A-Z ' or ‘ Subjects A-Z ’ indexes.
SOLO (Search Oxford Libraries Online) is the main search engine for library collections across Oxford, providing access to information in over 100 Oxford libraries including circa eight million bibliographic records and more than 13 million item records.
It offers a one-stop search and delivery solution for quickly accessing Oxford’s main library information resources regardless of type, format or location.
These include ORA (Oxford University Research Archive) , OxLIP+ (currently over 800 e-resource databases) and OU E-Journals (over 28,000 e-journals).
Single Sign-On offers easy access to subscription resources, whether on or off campus.
Visit the SOLO website .
Find more information on finding resources at the Bodleian Libraries .
The Bodleian is actively involved in developing new digital collections and services in close collaboration with students, researchers, and staff from around the University.
To learn more about these services please see this overview or have a look at a selection of our past or current projects.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/visitors/visiting-oxford/visiting-museums-libraries-places:
Oxford University’s museums, libraries and collections are of national and international importance.
They provide an outstanding resource for both the University and the public, as well as being fantastic places to visit.
The Ashmolean is the University of Oxford’s museum of art and archaeology.
Founded in 1683, it is Britain’s first public museum and home to half a million years of human history and creativity, from ancient Egyptian mummies to modern art, and much more.
">Video of Inside the Ashmolean Museum
Oxford University Museum of Natural History holds an internationally-significant collection of natural history specimens and archives in a stunning example of neo-Gothic architecture.
It is home to a lively programme of research, teaching and events focused on the sciences of the natural environment.
">Video of Secret Architecture of Oxford University Museum of Natural History
Visit the History of Science Museum in the world’s oldest surviving purpose-built public museum building.
Discover stories of science to spark your curiosity, from Einstein's blackboard and the first life-saving Penicillin cultures to the world's finest collection of ingenious astrolabes.
">Video of Welcome to the History of Science Museum
The Pitt Rivers Museum holds one of the world’s finest collections of anthropology and archaeology, with objects from every continent and from throughout human history.
Further introductory talks are available on YouTube: You might think you know the Pitt Rivers...
and A Quiet Revolution
">Video of Inside the Pitt Rivers Museum
The Bate Collection of Musical Instruments The Bate Collection of Musical Instruments is one of the most magnificent collections of musical instruments in the world.
It houses one of the most comprehensive collections of woodwind, brass and percussion instruments from Europe and across the globe.
Whilst it prepares its move to the Schwarzman Centre of the Humanities, the Bate Collection of Musical Instruments is temporarily closed.
While the Bate Collection is temporarily closed to the public, its education programme is still running.
These interactive sessions offer students and the inquisitive public a unique opportunity to explore and play many of the instruments in the collection.
The sessions are hands-on, engaging and tailored to different age groups and learning needs.
For more information and to book please email: [email protected]
View of the Bodleian Library.
The world-famous Bodleian Library is a must-see cultural destination in the heart of Oxford.
It was founded by Sir Thomas Bodley and officially opened in 1602.
Since then, the Bodleian Libraries has grown to be the largest academic library system in the UK.
The Bodleian Library and the Weston Library across the road are open to visitors daily.
The two sites together offer tours (booking recommended), free exhibitions, events , a café , shops and more.
Admission to the Divinity School is free to alumni, Bodleian cardholders and Friends of the Bodleian .
Up to four guests will also be admitted free.
">Video of Explore the Bodleian Library
View the collection of Old Master paintings, drawings and prints.
Christ Church Picture Gallery houses and displays an important collection of Old Master paintings, drawings and prints in a purpose-built gallery of considerable architectural interest.
View of Christ Church and Meadows from path Credit: Rob Judges.
Credit: Rob Judges.
Christ Church Meadow is a large area of tranquil pasture in the heart of the busy city of Oxford, owned and maintained by Christ Church and bordering the rivers Cherwell and Isis.
A herd of beautiful Longhorn cattle are maintained by Christ Church on the Meadow and spend most of the year there.
The Botanic Garden is the oldest botanic garden in Britain, and forms the most compact yet diverse collection of plants in the world.
Visitors explore the Lower Garden at Oxford Botanic Garden.
Image credit: Franco Santarsieri
The Harcourt Arboretum is home to many beautiful trees from all around the World, one of the best bluebell woods in this county and newly restored meadowland.
The site comprises 130 acres containing the best collection of trees in Oxfordshire with some of the oldest redwoods in the UK.
Explore over 130 acres at Harcourt Arboretum including the spectacular Acer glade (pictured).
University Parks in Autumn Credit: Greg Smolonski.
Credit: Greg Smolonski.
The University Parks is owned and maintained by the University for the University community, but everyone is welcome to come and enjoy its 70 acres (30 hectares) of beautiful parkland.
The Parks border on the River Cherwell and include sports areas, a duck pond and a large collection of plants and trees in peaceful landscaped surroundings.
">Video of #1.
spring University Parks Oxford
The Sheldonian Theatre Credit: Whitaker Studio.
Credit: Whitaker Studio.
Designed by Christopher Wren, the Sheldonian Theatre is the principal meeting and ceremonial venue of the University.
It offers excellent panoramic views over Oxford.
University Church from Radcliffe Square Credit: OU
The University's own church has a long and varied history and offers excellent panoramic views of the city from its tower.
The Bate Collection of Musical Instruments is one of the most magnificent collections of musical instruments in the world.
It houses one of the most comprehensive collections of woodwind, brass and percussion​ instruments from Europe and across the globe.
Whilst it prepares its move to the Schwarzman Centre of the Humanities the Bate Collection of Musical Instruments is temporarily closed.
The sessions are hands-on, engaging, and tailored to different age groups and learning needs.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/visiting-and-outreach/open-days:
Talk to tutors and students, have a look round and make up your own mind about Oxford.
Timetables for the September 2025 events, including college and department timetables, are available to view on this page.
Most events are drop in but a few require advance booking.
Our Open Days map will help you find your way around.
This year for the first time you will also have the opportunity to access Open Day information via the University’s MyOxford app.
Available to download from the App Store and Google Play , the app provides a neat dashboard with links to the webpages you'll need to plan your journey around the city.
You will not need to log in to use the app but you will need internet connection.
To note, the app simply provides another way to access the information on these pages.
It does not provide additional information.
Please note that the Open Day map currently reflects locations for the July Open Days, and that some changes are expected for the next Open Day on 19 September.
An updated map will be published in advance of the Open Day.
">Video of What can I expect from an Oxford Open Day?
Read the video transcript.
You are very welcome to come and visit at another time.
College grounds are usually open to prospective applicants but you can also get in touch with the college linked to your region and let them know you are coming.
You may also be able to attend an event listed in our outreach calendar while you're here.
Subject departments are not open to visitors except on Open Days or for specific outreach events.
There’s a lot to see and do in Oxford on Open Days.
Read our advice about how to make the most of your time on the day.
Read our advice for your journey.
Some college accommodation is available for potential applicants travelling longer distances.
Our colleges are at the heart of student life at Oxford so make sure you visit a good handful whilst you are here.
However, do check first they offer the course(s) you are interested in!
As well as taking a tour, you will be able to have your questions answered first hand by current students and tutors.
Choosing your course is the most important decision you need to make and our Open Days offer a rare opportunity to visit departments and meet tutors and current students, so we recommend prioritising these events.
Colleges and departments are the best places to find out about studying at Oxford but if you’ve still got questions, or if the event you planned to attend is full, then please come to the Open Day Information Centre in the High Street, where you will find staff from the undergraduate admissions team and student services available all day.
If time permits during the Open Day, why not visit some of our iconic museums and libraries and be inspired!
Or find out how to explore the University's Sports Centre and Language Centre.
Enjoy a guided audio tour of Oxford with one of our current students.
Can't make it to an Open Day or outreach event?
Here's some advice on planning your own visit.
See our full calendar of events
Register to receive Open Days updates
July 2025 Open Day map - an updated map will be published soon
8 March - English 24 March - Classics 26 April - Mathematics 3 May - Mathematics (online) 17 May - Modern Languages 16 June - Geography 9 September - Graduate-entry Medicine (online)
Please be aware...
During your visit to Oxford, you may see organisations handing out leaflets in the street, claiming to offer advice about our application process.
Please be warned that these businesses are not affiliated with the University of Oxford and they may charge for their services.
We encourage you to take advantage of the many free opportunities the University is offering.
Have a look at our online guide to the accessibility of the University's buildings, departments, colleges, gardens, museums and galleries.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/organisation/governance/dataprotection:
Protecting our personal data is protecting our people.
How would you feel if your personal data was used in a way you didn’t expect?
Handling personal data is a core part of nearly all of our daily activities and it’s important to look after the data you have access to and treat others’ data as you’d expect yours to be treated.
Managing data effectively is central to the University’s mission in delivering its teaching and research.
It is essential that we are trusted to protect people's personal data, embed data protection into all of our processing activities, and are compliant with data protection legislation.
Here at Oxford, everyone is responsible for the protection of personal data so you need to be clear on when you can and cannot collect, share and store information.
Staff and colleagues looking to find out more should visit our staff guidance webpages.
More information about the University’s approach to data protection can be found in the Policy on Data Protection .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/continuing-education/online-and-distance-courses:
Join a global community of adult learners studying online with Oxford Lifelong Learning.
Whether you wish to study for pleasure, advance in your career or gain a qualification, we have a course for you.
Explore a topic over one or two days or join a weekly learning programme.
Choose from courses that have live, real-time meetings or study when it suits you with a flexible online course.
Oxford Lifelong Learning offers a number of part-time undergraduate and postgraduate qualifications.
All are designed for the specific needs of adult learners and many can be studied mostly, or entirely, online.
From short online courses and training to part-time postgraduate programmes; update your skills, change career or earn a qualification.
Oxford Lifelong Learning offers opportunities for adult learners of all ages and interests to explore new ideas and engage with the latest developments shaping our world.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/visitors:
Oxford is a beautiful city of stunning architecture, history and culture.
You'll find ancient and modern colleges, fascinating museums, and parks and green spaces in which to relax.
Oxford is one of the top visitor destinations in the UK
Information on college opening hours and admission charges
Oxford's museums and collections are of national and international importance
How to get to and find your way around Oxford
He visits the Museum of Natural History, the Pitt Rivers, Museum of the History of Science and the Ashmolean
Please see our information for:

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/applying-to-oxford/teachers:
Choosing where to go to university can be a life-changing decision and whilst this is exciting it can also be daunting.
We hugely value the supporting role that teachers and careers advisors can play in encouraging students to consider their options and make informed decisions.
These pages aim to give you all the information you need to help your students.
We encourage you to explore our website widely but hope that you will find the resources here particularly useful.
Please always check our advice for teachers and our guide for applicants for the latest information.
We welcome the chance to talk with teachers and advisers about supporting your students through all aspects of considering, and applying to, Oxford.
You may also like to be aware of our comprehensive information for families and parents in case you would like to share this with those supporting an applicant.
Stay up to speed on any changes to our admissions process and find out more about how to support your students applying to Oxford.
Subscribe to About Oxford to keep up-to-date with news and events.
Meet our international recruitment team.
Resources and information to help teachers support students applying to Oxford.
Find out how we can support your school.
We have compiled the best of our digital resources to support learning and exploration.
Please refer any interested students to our suggested reading and resources page, where they can find suggestions for their chosen subject area.
They may also want to check out our interactive learning platform, Oxplore , which aims to engage those from 11 to 18 years with debates and ideas that go beyond what is covered in the classroom.
There is no minimum GCSE requirement for any of our courses.
Higher grades at GCSE can help to make an application more competitive, but they are just one aspect that we look at, and where possible they will be considered in context .
Read further advice on GCSE consideration .
Not necessarily; three A-levels is absolutely sufficient to make a competitive application and will allow applicants to meet the entrance requirements for their chosen course.
A candidate who has had time to read around their chosen subject(s) may be more appealing than a candidate who may have taken more subjects, but who is not able to discuss their interests with any enthusiasm or in any depth.
Read further advice on taking additional A-levels.
Find out how Oxford uses a range of contextual data to help assess an applicant's academic potential in the context of their educational background.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/engage-with-us/policy-makers:
At the University of Oxford we consistently strive to bridge the gap between academic research and public policy in order to address some of the world’s biggest challenges.
Through knowledge exchange activities, collaborative projects and fellowships, our academics connect regularly with policy professionals at local, regional, national, and international levels.
Our researchers frequently contribute to policy briefings, parliamentary inquiries and consultations, bringing their expertise to real-world policy challenges.
We also foster exciting new opportunities for graduate students to engage meaningfully with policymakers and community or charity organisations, to support evidence-based public policymaking at a local level.
Policy professionals can explore some of the routes to engaging with our researchers at the links below:

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/engage-with-us/external-organisations:
At Oxford University we’re passionate about working with partners to address real-world challenges.
Whether that's licensing technology or starting a spinout, collaborating with industry or partnering with charities, we want our to ensure the greatest impact for our research.
Explore the options below, find out more about our successful partnerships , or contact [email protected] to get started.
How can I access Oxford's academic expertise?
How can I benefit from Oxford's resources & facilities?
How can I work in partnership with Oxford University?
The COVID-19 pandemic demanded an urgent and unprecedented response.
University research and expertise was critical to this effort, and OUI supports a growing number of projects from Oxford University involving IP and technology that could help address the pandemic.
These include vaccines, rapid diagnostics, ventilators, therapeutics and remote monitoring technology.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/facts-and-figures/dates-of-term:
Oxford's year is divided into three terms and three vacations.
Within each term, a 'Full Term' of eight weeks is the main teaching period.
The dates for reckoning Full Term 2024-26 have been fixed, and the dates for reckoning Full Term 2026-32 have been fixed provisionally.
The dates and provisional dates for Full Term 2024-32 are set out below:
2024-25
2025-26
The dates of extended terms for 2024–25 and 2025–26 for Part II candidates in Chemistry, in Molecular and Cellular biochemistry, and in Materials Science, for Part C candidates in Cell and Systems biology and Neuroscience, for the Clinical course for the Second bM, the Postgraduate Certificate in education, and for Mba and MPP candidates are set out below.
The dates are provisional and subject to minor changes.
Please contact the departmental administrator for further information.
First Clinical Year
Second Clinical Year
Third Clinical Year
* 6 weeks between these dates.
Please note , the University makes a distinction between dates of term (below) and dates of full term (published above).
The University does not currently provide these dates in any other format.
However:

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/contact-us:
If you have a question you would like to ask , including admission queries, please use our Any Questions website.
You can search popular questions or submit a question using the 'Ask a question' tab.
Postal address University of Oxford University Offices Wellington Square Oxford OX1 2JD United Kingdom
Telephone: +44 1865 270000
The University of Oxford is not a campus university and our colleges, departments and other constituent units are to be found throughout the city of Oxford, rather than on one central site.
Departmental and college addresses and phone numbers may be found on individual college and departmental websites.
If you have an issue or feedback relating to the University of Oxford website itself, please contact the webmaster .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about-this-site:
This is the University of Oxford's main public facing website (OxWeb).
It is managed and maintained by the University's Public Affairs Directorate .
Pages within this site will have addresses that look like this: www.ox.ac.uk/ page and www.ox.ac.uk/ section / page .
There are some important points to clarify that will explain why, as you browse through more of the site, its appearance and navigation are not consistent:
All these addresses will look like this: www.
name .ox.ac.uk or just name .ox.ac.uk
In total there are more than one thousand sites that together make up the University's overall web presence.
This means that there will be neither visual nor organisational consistency but that there will be individuality, independence and ingenuity in abundance, characteristics that the University of Oxford is renowned for and has always encouraged.
The central site has been designed to conform to the W3C (World Wide Web Consortium) WCAG 2.1 AA guidelines.
For more information please see the Accessibility Statement for this site .
The central site sets a number of cookies, which visitors can easily opt out of.
For more information see the Cookie statement .
The University uses a Google Custom Search that is accessible through the search box in the header of all pages within this site.
This central site uses Google Maps.
The searchable map is provided by Estates.
If you have any comments or suggestions about any of the University's websites, please use the contact/enquiries link at the bottom of each web page.
This will send a mail to the relevant webmaster of that site, please note there are many webmasters in the University, so please make sure that you click the link on the site that you have the query about.
Contact this site's webmaster .
This site was originally designed by Torchbox , then further enhanced by Numiko , and is hosted by Platform.sh .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/legal:
© University of Oxford, 2015

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/privacy-policy:
This policy (together with our terms of use and any other documents referred to in it) describes how we collect and use your personal data during your use of the University of Oxford’s central website ( www.ox.ac.uk ) (the ‘website’) in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and related UK data protection legislation.
Other University websites, for example, those operated by divisions, faculties, departments or other units (these will be identified as www.name.ox.ac.uk or name.ox.ac.uk ) may carry their own privacy policy or provide additional information relating to their activities, which will supersede or supplement this Privacy Policy.
For further information about the structure of the University's web presence, please see About this site .
The University of Oxford 1 is the “data controller" for the information that we collect when you visit the website.
This means that we decide how to use it and are responsible for looking after it in accordance with the GDPR.
Access to your personal data within the University will be provided to those staff who need to view it as part of their work in connection with the operation of the website.
It will also be shared with the third parties described in Section E .
Please read the following carefully to understand our views and practices regarding your personal data and how we will treat it.
We may update this policy at any time.
Where we refer in this policy to your ‘personal data’, we mean any recorded information that is about you and from which you can be identified.
It does not include data where your identity has been removed (anonymous data).
Where we refer to the ‘processing’ of your personal data, we mean anything that we do with that information, including collection, use, storage, disclosure, deletion or retention.
We will automatically collect, store, and use the following categories of data when you browse and search our site, if you have consented to our use of cookies:
We process your data for purposes arising from your use of the website, for example, to ensure that we understand who uses our site and how our site is used and to improve our site and ensure it is secure.
This processing occurs because it is necessary to meet our legitimate interests in operating and improving the website, analysing its use, and ensuring its security.
We will only use your data for the purposes for which we collected it, unless we reasonably consider that we need to use it for another related reason and that reason is compatible with the original purpose.
If we need to use your data for an unrelated purpose, we will seek your consent to use it for that new purpose.
We may share your data with third parties who provide services on our behalf, such as those who help us to operate the website.
All our third-party service providers are required to take appropriate security measures to protect your data in line with our policies.
We do not allow them to use your data for their own purposes.
We permit them to process your data only for specified purposes and in accordance with our instructions.
We may also share your personal data with third parties if we are under a duty to disclose or share your personal data in order to comply with any legal obligation, or in order to enforce or apply our site terms of use or to protect the rights, property or safety of our site, our users, and others.
Where your data is shared with third parties, we will seek to share the minimum amount necessary.
We may store data collected by the website manually or electronically.
The data is stored on our secure servers and/or in our premises within the UK.
Unfortunately, the transmission of information via the internet is not completely secure.
Although we will do our best to protect your personal data, we cannot guarantee the security of data transmitted to the website and any transmission is at your own risk.
Our site contains links to and from various third party websites.
If you follow a link to any of these websites, please note that these websites have their own privacy policies and that we do not accept any responsibility or liability for these policies.
Please check these policies before you submit any personal data to these websites.
We will only retain your data for as long as we need it to fulfil our purposes, including any relating to legal, accounting, or reporting requirements.
Under certain circumstances, by law you have the right to:
Depending on the circumstances and the nature of your request it may not be possible for us to do what you have asked, for example, where there is a statutory or contractual requirement for us to process your data and it would not be possible to fulfil our legal obligations if we were to stop.
Further information on your rights is available from the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO).
If you want to exercise any of the rights described above or are dissatisfied with the way we have used your information, you should contact the University’s Information Compliance Team at [email protected] .
The same email address may be used to contact the University’s Data Protection Officer.
We will seek to deal with your request without undue delay, and in any event in accordance with the requirements of the GDPR.
Please note that we may keep a record of your communications to help us resolve any issues which you raise.
If you remain dissatisfied, you have the right to lodge a complaint with the ICO at https://ico.org.uk/concerns/ .
Our site uses cookies to distinguish you from other users of our site.
This helps us to provide you with a good experience when you browse our site and also allows us to improve our site.
For detailed information on the cookies we use and the purposes for which we use them see our Cookie policy .
Any changes we may make to our privacy policy in the future will be posted on this page.
Please check back frequently to see any updates or changes to our privacy policy.
If you wish to raise any queries or concerns about this privacy policy please contact the Information Compliance Team by email at [email protected] or by post at University of Oxford, University Offices, Wellington Square, Oxford, OX1 2JD.
[1] The University’s legal title is the Chancellor, Masters and Scholars of the University of Oxford

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/accessibility:
This statement applies to the University of Oxford’s primary website at www.ox.ac.uk , as well as the research campaigns website managed by the Public Affairs Directorate at www.research.ox.ac.uk .
The University of Oxford is committed to providing an accessible web presence that gives members of the public and members of the University community full access to University information, courses and activities offered publicly through the web.
Our Equality Policy outlines our commitment to a culture which ‘maintains a working, learning and social environment in which the rights and dignity of all its staff and students are respected’.
In order to ensure that all of our visitors can use our website, these pages aim to meet Level-AA standard of WCAG 2.2 .
This includes elements such as:
Guidance is available for editors and moderators of this site to help them maintain accessibility standards .
The Government Digital Service, on behalf of the Minister for the Cabinet Office, have determined this statement was compliant on 9 September 2022.
AbilityNet has advice on making your devices easier to use if you have a disability.
In addition, major operating systems produce the following guidance:
We are aware that some parts of our website are not fully accessible.
These include:
We are working to address areas where our accessibility needs improvement.
Please see 'Technical information' below and our known issues page for more details.
The Accessible Resources Acquisition and Creation Unit (ARACU) , who are part of the Bodleian Libraries, offer alternative formats for pages on this website for students referred by the Disability Advisory Services.
They produce materials in electronic text (RTF document fully structured and with XML tags for navigation) and DAISY 2.02 human voice audio.
Both products can be sent out physically (DVD) or via file transfer.
They can also produce Braille documents.
Please contact [email protected] to discuss your requirements.
You can also use the free SensusAccess tool on the Bodleian website to convert certain types of files into a more accessible format.
Our Graduate Course Information Sheets may not be accessible.
To request an accessible version of a Course Information Sheet, please contact Graduate Admissions and Recruitment using the online form or by sending an email to [email protected] .
If you have any further questions about content or wish to discuss provision of an alternative format, please contact the webmaster at [email protected] .
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
The University of Oxford is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
The website has been tested against the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.2 AA standard.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.2 AA standard, due to the following non-compliances and exemptions listed below and in more detail on our known issues page .
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
Please see our known issues page for more details.
The accessibility regulations do not require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they’re not essential to providing our services.
Any new PDFs or Word documents we publish will meet accessibility standards.
We want our website to offer the best experience possible for all of our users.
In addition to our plan to fix known issues, we continue to work on website content and structure.
We are working with our suppliers to fix issues and think about future developments.
We are also updating the ways in which we provide training and best practice to those working on our website.
This statement was prepared on 20 September 2019.
It was last reviewed and updated on 24 February 2025.
This website was last tested over a number of weeks leading up to 24 February 2025.
The test was carried out internally, using a quality assurance tool across all pages as well as a manual check of a substantial and carefully chosen sample of pages and content types.
We continue to review the site on a monthly basis to check new content.
We tested:
If you’d like more information about accessibility and resources for students, staff and visitors in Oxford more generally, please visit our Equality and Diversity pages .
If you’re looking for information on building accessibility, please try the Access Guide or the University’s interactive map .
If you have any questions or concerns about this statement or the accessibility of our webpages, please contact the webmaster at [email protected] .
The University of Oxford’s web estate consists of many related sub-sites with the ox.ac.uk domain, including various divisions and departments, museums and libraries, administrative sites and more.
Accessibility statements for such sub-sites will be found locally on each site.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/organisation/university-officers:
Lord Hague of Richmond was elected as the new Chancellor of Oxford University in November 2024.
The admission ceremony took place on 19 Feb 2025.
Professor Martin Williams took up the role of Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Education) on January 1 2018.
Professor Williams received his BSc and PhD degrees from Bristol University and later worked as a structural design engineer.
He moved to the University of Oxford in 1989, based in the Engineering Science Department and at New College, where he is the David Clarke Fellow in Engineering.
He is a Fellow both of the Institution of Civil Engineers and the Institution of Structural Engineers.
He served on the Council of the University of Oxford for four years, and as Senior Proctor from 2009-2010.
He has chaired the Committee for the Proctors Office since 2015.
He was previously Associate Head (Education) of the Division of Mathematical Physical and Life Sciences and was Deputy Head of the Department of Engineering Science.
At New College he was Sub-Warden from 2007-8 and Senior Tutor from 1995-99.
As Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Education), Professor Williams is responsible for the University’s strategy and policies for teaching, learning, student support and admissions.
Professor Anne Trefethen is Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Digital) and a Fellow of St Cross College.
She became Pro-Vice-Chancellor for the Academic Services and University Collections in January 2015, and from 1 September 2018 became Pro-Vice-Chancellor for People and GLAM, as chair of the Personnel Committee and with responsibility for overseeing the University’s gardens, libraries and museums.
Professor Trefethen was appointed the University’s first Chief Information Officer in March 2012, prior to which she served as Director of the Oxford e-Research Centre.
Before coming to Oxford in 2005, she was a Director of the UK e-Science Core Programme and prior to that worked at NAG (Numerical Algorithms Group) in both management and technical roles.
She has spent ten years in the US at Thinking Machines Corp and at the Theory Centre, Cornell University, in leadership roles.
Dr David Prout took up the post of Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Planning and Resources) in September 2017.
He has had a distinguished career in central and local government, most recently (2013-17) as Director General for the £50 billion High Speed 2 programme.
Prior to that he was Director General for Local Government at the Department for Communities and Local Government, where he was responsible for all aspects of local government policy and funding, for the Fire Service, and for tackling extremism.
He has also served as, among other roles, Executive Director for Housing, Planning and Regeneration at the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea (2007-2009); Director for Local Government Policy in the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister (2004-2007) and Private and Principal Private Secretary to the Deputy Prime Minister (1999-2004).
As Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Planning and Resources), Dr Prout is responsible for institutional and strategic planning, and resource allocation.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/organisation/history:
Oxford is a unique and historic institution.
As the oldest university in the English-speaking world, it can lay claim to nine centuries of continuous existence.
Here’s a timeline of key dates:
There is no clear date of foundation but teaching existed at Oxford in some form in 1096.
( Image c redit: Shutterstock )
Oxford developed rapidly from 1167, when Henry II banned English students from attending the University of Paris following a quarrel with Thomas Becket.
( Image: Thomas Becket, Archbishop of Canterbury stained glass window in the Chapter House at Westminster Abbey.
Credit: Shutterstock.
)
In 1188, the historian Gerald of Wales gave a public reading to the assembled Oxford dons (university lecturers, especially at Oxford or Cambridge).
As a royal clerk to the king and two archbishops, Gerald of Wales travelled widely and wrote extensively.
In around 1190 the arrival of Emo of Friesland, the first known overseas student, set in motion the University’s tradition of developing international scholarly links.
By 1201 the University was headed by a ‘magister scholarum (head of an ecclesiastical school) Oxonie’, on whom the title of Chancellor was later conferred in 1214, and in 1231 the Masters were recognised as a universitas or corporation.
( Image: The current Chancellor, Lord Patten of Barnes.
During the 13th century, rioting between town and gown (townspeople and students) hastened the establishment of primitive halls of residence.
These were succeeded by the first of Oxford’s colleges, which began as endowed houses or medieval halls of residence, under the supervision of a Master.
Established between 1249 and 1264, University, Balliol and Merton Colleges are the oldest.
(Image: Merton College and chapel, from the first quadrangle, 1775-1827.
Credit: Oxford University Images / Oxfordshire History Centre)
Less than a century later, Oxford had achieved eminence above every other seat of learning, and won the praises of popes, kings and sages by virtue of its antiquity, curriculum, doctrine and privileges.
In 1355, Edward III paid tribute to the University for its invaluable contribution to learning.
He also commented on the services rendered to the state by distinguished Oxford graduates.
John Locke (1632-1704) by Thomas Gibson.
Image: Oxford University Images / Bodleian Library Early on, Oxford became a centre for lively controversy with scholars involved in religious and political disputes.
John Wyclif, a 14th-century Master of Balliol, campaigned for a Bible in English, against the wishes of the papacy.
In the 16th century, Henry VIII forced the University to accept his divorce from Catherine of Aragon, and the Anglican churchmen Cranmer, Latimer and Ridley were later tried for heresy and burnt at the stake in the city.
The University was Royalist during the Civil War and Charles I held a counter-Parliament in the University’s Convocation House.
In the late 17th century, the Oxford philosopher John Locke, suspected of treason, was forced to flee the country.
Edmond Halley, astronomer (1656-1742), by Thomas Murray.
OUImages / Bodleian Library The 18th century became an era of scientific discovery and religious revival.
Edmond Halley, Professor of Geometry, predicted the return of the comet that bears his name.
John and Charles Wesley’s prayer meetings laid the foundations for the Methodist Society.
Find out more:
Oxford people
Famous Oxonians
British Prime Ministers | University of Oxford
Award winners | University of Oxford
From 1833 onwards, the Oxford Movement sought to revitalise the Catholic aspects of the Anglican Church.
One of its leaders, John Henry Newman, became a Roman Catholic in 1845 and was later made a Cardinal.
In 2019 he was canonised as a saint.
(Image: Close-up of Cardinal Newman bust from Trinity College Garden Quad, Oxford University.
Credit: Shutterstock.)
In 1860 the new University Museum was the scene of a famous debate between Thomas Huxley, champion of evolution, and Bishop Wilberforce.
From 1878 academic halls were established for women, who were admitted as full members of the University from 1920.
By 1986, all of Oxford’s male colleges had changed their statutes to admit women and, since 2008, all colleges have admitted men and women.
(Image: The first women to be awarded degrees at Oxford University.
Credit: Lady Margaret Hall.)
During the 20th and early 21st centuries, Oxford established major new research capacities in the natural and applied sciences, including medicine.
In so doing, it has enhanced and strengthened its traditional role as an international focus for learning and a forum for intellectual debate.
Oxford University has been at the centre of the COVID-19 response from the very onset of the crisis, remaining at the forefront of global efforts to combat the disease and to mitigate its many effects, such as developing a vaccine and identifying treatments.
By early 2022, more than 2.6 billion doses of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine had been supplied to over 180 countries, with approximately two-thirds going to low and middle-income countries.
The vaccine is estimated to have helped prevent 50 million COVID-19 cases, five million hospitalisations, and saved more than one million lives.
(Image: Seven of the Oxford academics recognised in the Queen’s Birthday Honours for their work on stopping the pandemic.
Credit: John Cairns.)
The founding dates and history of the colleges and halls can be found on their own websites which are listed here .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/organisation/governance:
Oxford's distinctive governance structure stems from its long history.
Congregation is the sovereign body of the University and acts as its ‘parliament’.
It has just over 5,000 members, including academic staff; heads and other members of governing bodies of colleges; and senior research, computing, library and administrative staff.
Congregation has responsibility for:
Council is the University’s principal executive and policy-making body.
You can find information about the current membership of Council here .
It is responsible for the academic policy and strategic direction of the University, for its administration, and for the management of its finances and property.
The main committees of Council are the Education Committee; General Purposes Committee; People Committee; Planning and Resource Allocation Committee; Research and Innovation Committee; and the Joint Committee for Equality, Diversity and Inclusion.
The 39 colleges , though independent and self-governing, form a core element of the University, to which they are related in a federal system.
Each college is granted a charter approved by the Privy Council, under which it is governed by a Head of House and a Governing Body comprising of a number of Fellows, most of whom also hold University posts.
There are also four Permanent Private Halls, which were founded by different Christian denominations, and still retain their religious character today.
The Conference of Colleges represents the common concerns of the colleges on Council, its committees, and the four Divisional Boards, and acts as a body for intercollegiate discussion and decision-making.
The University’s academic departments, faculties and research centres are grouped into four divisions: Humanities; Mathematical, Physical and Life Sciences; Medical Sciences; and Social Sciences.
Day-to-day decision-making in matters such as finance and planning is devolved to the divisions.
The Department for Continuing Education is the responsibility of a separate board.
The Chancellor, who is usually an eminent public figure, serves as the titular head of the University, presiding over all major ceremonies.
In November 2024, the Rt Hon Lord Hague of Richmond won a majority of support by members of Convocation in the final round of voting for the post and was officially admitted as Oxford’s 160th recorded Chancellor in a ceremony at the Sheldonian Theatre on February 19, 2025.
Lord Hague will serve for a term of 10 years.
The Vice-Chancellor holds office for up to seven years and is the senior officer of the University.
There are currently seven Pro-Vice-Chancellors who have specific portfolios in Education; Innovation; Digital; Planning and Resources; Research; Strategic Initiatives; and External Engagement.
There are also up to ten Pro-Vice-Chancellors without portfolio who undertake a range of duties on behalf of the Vice-Chancellor, including presiding at degree ceremonies and chairing electoral boards.
Information on and links to the main bodies involved in the University's governance, its legislation, its elections, and on the team supporting the governance structures.
What is the University doing to make personal data safer?

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/organisation/university-as-a-charity:
The University of Oxford is an exempt charity under the terms of the Charities Act 2011 and its principal regulatory body is the Office for Students .
University of Oxford University Offices Wellington Square Oxford OX1 2JD
The University of Oxford is a civil corporation established under common law, which was formally incorporated by the Act for Incorporation of Both Universities 1571 under the name of 'The Chancellor Masters and Scholars of the University of Oxford', but is more commonly referred to as the University of Oxford or Oxford University.
Further information on the corporate and charitable status is available on the University's Legal Services.
The University has no charter; the University's Statutes and Regulations set out the constitutional framework within which it operates.
The current Statutes and Regulations are available online.
In accordance with its obligations as a charity, a copy of the Statutes in force from 1 August 2024 to 31 July 2025 is available as a PDF.
This shows changes to the statutes during the previous academic year and is updated on an annual basis.
A commentary on the University's governance structure can be found on the governance pages .
The mission and objectives of the University are set out in the Strategic Plan .
Facts and figures on the University can be found in the Financial Statements and the Annual Review .
The charity trustees of the University are the members of Council, the University's executive body.
A list of Council members as at 31 January 2025, which provides the names of other charities of which the University’s trustees are also a trustee, is available as a PDF.
Information on Council's primary responsibilities and its current membership are available online.
The University is the reporting charity for a number of linked charities.
Details will be available online in due course.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/organisation/oxford-community-sanctuary:
The University of Oxford is committed to being a place of welcome for people who have been forcibly displaced around the world, and supports students and academics who have been forced to flee conflict or persecution.
Oxford University, colleges and wider city has a long-standing history of supporting people with lived experience of displacement, dating back to welcoming refugee academics during the Second World War up to the most recent support provided to students and academics affected by global crises .
The University's dedicated Refugee Studies Centre was established in 1982 and undertakes research, teaching, and outreach relating to all aspects of forced displacement.
Oxford has received University of Sanctuary status , and is proud to have signed the City of Sanctuary Organisation Pledge .
Professor Alexander Betts talks about Oxford's University of Sanctuary status...
">Video of Oxford granted University of Sanctuary status
Several colleges have a long history of supporting displaced scholars, including through collaboration with the Community for At-Risk Academics .
Oxford’s Mansfield and Somerville Colleges were both awarded College of Sanctuary status in 2021, having established Sanctuary Scholarships offering fully funded places for postgraduate study.
Since then, the central University and colleges have worked together to increase the number of full scholarships available to graduate students from displacement backgrounds.
2024 Sanctuary Fairs
The University hosted a Sanctuary Fair on Wednesday 24 April 2024, for staff and students of the University, held at Worcester College.
All members of Oxford were invited for a series of panel discussions and information sharing.
Download a PDF summary of this event .
A Sanctuary Fair for Oxford's wider community was held on Thursday 13 June at Oxford Town Hall.
This is an annual event organised in collaboration with University of Oxford, Oxford Brookes, Asylum Welcome, Oxford City and County Councils.
More details for next year’s fair will be announced in due course.
The University delivers an integrated programme of scholarships and support for students from displacement backgrounds under its ‘Oxford Sanctuary Community’.
This provides pre-arrival and on-course support, a regular programme of social and cultural events, and a dedicated point of contact for all self-identifying members of the community.
The University offers a range of scholarships and a cohort support programme for students from displacement backgrounds.
With thanks to the generous support of funding partners across the University and colleges, as well as support from student members, the University has been able to offer scholarships to refugees and other forced migrants since 2016.
Since 2022, the University has offered graduate scholarships to students from displacement backgrounds as part of its wider Academic Futures programme.
The Refugee Academic Futures graduate scholarship scheme includes a dedicated contact person and cohort support programme available to all students within the collegiate University, who self-identify as having a displacement background.
In 2022, the University welcomed 26 graduate students from Ukraine who were affected by the Russian invasion of Ukraine to join our graduate community.
Further scholarships have been offered for the 2023-24 and 2024-25 academic years.
The Palestine Crisis Scholarship Scheme will provide access to higher education to students displaced by the humanitarian crisis in Gaza and the West Bank through the provision of full graduate scholarships to study at Oxford in 2025-26.
A range of other scholarships for students from displacement backgrounds have been confirmed for 2025-26 (and beyond), for instance as part of the University’s Africa Oxford Initiative in collaboration with the Mastercard Foundation, and through the Hope scholarships, in collaboration with the Weidenfeld Hoffmann Trust .
More information can be found on the University's graduate scholarships pages .
We encourage our students to learn about sanctuary and to create an inclusive culture of welcome.
As part of this, the University is supporting the Oxford branch of Student Action for Refugees in recruiting new members for the 2023-24 academic year.
With a physical base in Nairobi, the Refugee-Led Research Hub aims to support aspiring researchers from displacement backgrounds to become research leaders.
It strives to go beyond ‘participation’ by enabling people with lived experience of displacement to lead at every stage of the research process.
The Hub office was established at the British Institute in Eastern Africa premises in November 2021 to deliver academic programmes.
These include a 3-month online course in Refugee and Forced Migration Studies available free of charge to learners from displacement backgrounds around the world, and a range of graduate access support schemes.
It also supports and funds a range of refugee-led research projects on themes relating to forced displacement.
A film crew comprising film-makers with displacement backgrounds made a short film summarising the Refugee-Led Research Festival .
Oxford's Refugee Studies Centre undertakes research, teaching, and outreach relating to all aspects of forced displacement.
The Centre offers an MSc in Refugee and Forced Migration Studies and a range of short courses which often include bursaries for learners from displacement backgrounds.
The Centre also published Forced Migration Review which is the leading practitioner-oriented publication in the world focusing on forced displacement, published in several languages.
The research of the Centre seeks to influence both policy and practice.
Beyond this work, there is a wide range of other specialist research on forced displacement taking place across the University, including at the Centre for Migration, Policy, and Society .
For more information about the Oxford Sanctuary Community or Sanctuary Fair, please email [email protected]

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/organisation/global-crises:
This page provides core information about the University’s response and support to crises and conflicts, as well as advice and support for impacted staff and students.
This page may be supplemented with dedicated information for staff and students regarding a crisis or incident when it directly impacts our community.
Last updated: 20 June 2025.
At times of international crisis which may impact our staff and students, the University’s first priority is the welfare and safety of our community.
As a University, we work together with the colleges to ensure all members of our community are supported in their work and their wellbeing, and we are committed to providing support for members of our community impacted by global crises.
Conflicts and humanitarian crises are a tragic feature of our world.
Many crisis situations are long-standing, while new crises may occur rapidly as a result of conflict, violence or natural disaster.
It is not uncommon for the University, as an institution, to be asked to comment on many of these tragic situations across the world.
It is not possible, or appropriate, for the University at an institutional level to comment on each of these crises.
Statements by the University regarding a global crisis or conflict will be issued within the context of our institutional teaching and research mission, alongside prioritising the safety and wellbeing of staff and students.
Information on the law (updated in October 2022) governing charities making political and campaigning statements can be found on the government’s website.
We are aware that members of our community may hold different and sometimes conflicting views in relation to conflicts and crisis situations.
We support the right to freedom of expression for all members of our community, within the boundaries of the law.
We strongly encourage all members of our community to treat one another with courtesy and respect and consider the impact that their choice of language and actions can have on others, whether unintended or not.
During a global crisis, within Oxford city, the University and our colleges, there may be vigils and protests expressing solidarity, where supporters voice their opinions, and express their strength of feelings.
The University is committed to supporting free speech, and the right of its members to hold and attend vigils and protests, within the law .
Our position on freedom of speech and our code of practice on freedom of speech can be found on the Compliance team’s webpages.
There are a number of welfare services available to provide support to you at this time, confidentially and free of charge.
Chaplaincy , departmental staff and Oxford SU are here to support you, in addition to the therapeutic and psychological support offered by the University Counselling Service .
At times of heightened worry and stress, it is important to stay in touch with support networks and maintain our usual routines as much as possible.
We encourage you to contact your college welfare team in the first instance.
You can also approach your college tutor in the first instance for pastoral guidance and, if necessary, the senior tutor of your college.
If you feel anxious or in distress and want to speak to someone
If you want to speak to a mental health professional now
University Counselling Service
Other forms of support
The Oxford SU Student Advice service is available to all students.
We hope you can find a service that feels right for you should you need support during a crisis.
Please speak to your college or department for any further assistance.
There are also a large number of national student societies registered with the University.
At times of crisis and conflict, they sometimes provide informal advice and organise solidarity events and activities.
If any member of our community experiences harassment, we encourage them to report it via the appropriate channels and seek support.
This may include:
Reporting hate crimes, and other threats, to the police
Reporting harassment via internal channels (see the University’s harassment policy for guidance on appropriate options, as well as the student guidance on harassment)
Additional support on reporting antisemitism
The Community Security Trust (CST) has published a number of resources on their social media feeds, including guidance on how to communicate about Israel in a non-antisemitic way.
CST also has a national emergency number which should be used to report antisemitic attacks, alongside contacting the police via 999: 0800 032 3263.
Additional support on reporting Islamophobia
Tell MAMA is a confidential support service for those suffering from anti-Muslim hate and discrimination across the UK.
Alongside contacting the police via 999, their website features a number of different ways to report anti-Muslim incidents, including via phone (0800 456 1223) or WhatsApp (0734 184 6086).
If you are planning any travel to a region affected by a crisis, you must keep up to date with government travel advice .
You must also speak to your supervisor and must complete a risk assessment before travelling.
This is particularly important during any crisis.
For queries about your UK student visa, contact [email protected] .
If you need to take some time away from studying, we encourage you to speak with your college and academic department, who will be able to advise further.
If you need further time for academic work or are concerned about an upcoming examination, please speak to your college office (or department academic office if you do not have a college) as soon as possible.
We are aware that some students affected by a global crisis or conflict may face difficulties relating to their academic degree courses, which may necessitate submitting a mitigating circumstances notice to examiners (MCE), or applying for an extension, for example.
You do not need to have a medical diagnosis to apply for an extension, as wider personal circumstances can be taken into account.
We also recognise that suspending status may pose particular challenges for some students given its implications for the right to remain in the UK.
In the first instance, we encourage affected students to approach their college tutors, relevant course directors and, if necessary, college senior tutors to seek guidance.
Please go to the problems completing your assessment page on the Oxford Students website for further information.
If additional clarity is required, the University’s Student Welfare and Support Services may be able to offer advice on individual cases.
If you are in a region impacted by a crisis and you are unable to access online teaching or resources, you should speak to your department about how they might support your learning.
If you are a postgraduate research student and are concerned about the impact on your research, you should speak to your supervisor or contact the Researcher Hub .
We recognise that some students may face unforeseen financial circumstances as a result of a crisis.
Some colleges and departments may have financial assistance funds.
College tutors and senior tutors will be able to advise on these.
In addition, the Oxford Assistance Fund (OAF) aims to assist students who are experiencing financial difficulties during their course.
Applications are assessed by the University Financial Assistance Committee at its termly meeting with non-repayable grants and/or loans of up to £8,000 available, according to individual circumstances.
The OAF is administered by the Student Fees and Funding team and will be able to respond to advise on individual cases.
Students should obtain a link to the OAF scheme application form and accompanying guidance from their College Financial Assistance Officer.
Please speak to your line manager or a colleague to ask for support.
There are a number of welfare services available to provide support to you during any crisis, confidentially and free of charge.
The Looking after you webpage summarises these, and there are further details of a few resources below.
To learn more about what is on offer, you can also email [email protected] .
University welfare support
For reporting via internal channels please see the University’s harassment policy for guidance as well as the Report + Support webpage .
If you are outside the UK
The University has a financial support fund to help staff who may need financial assistance.
You must also speak to your line manager and must complete a risk assessment before travelling.
If you are concerned about the impact of the conflict on your research, you should talk to your supervisor/line manager, or book a conversation with the Researcher Hub by emailing [email protected] .
You should also inform the project officer of your research funder of any delays to your project and seek a no-cost extension if necessary.
The collegiate University has a long history of supporting people who have been forcibly displaced around the world, including welcoming refugee academics during the Second World War.
In May 2023 Oxford received University of Sanctuary status in recognition of this continued commitment.
As a University of Sanctuary Oxford is committed to being a place of welcome for people who have been forcibly displaced around the world, and supports students and academics who have been forced to flee conflict or persecution.
It does so through the Oxford Sanctuary Community, which provides dedicated support to anyone within our community with lived experience of displacement.
Please contact [email protected] for more information.
The Refugee Academic Futures programme aims to address the significant barriers that students with lived experience of displacement can face in realising their right to education and unlocking their full potential.
It provides full scholarships to students who receive an offer to study a postgraduate degree at Oxford, covering both their course fees and living costs.
Recipients of the scholarship are also offered an enhanced programme of pre-arrival and on-course support to ensure they settle and thrive at the University.
This support is delivered as part of a programme of care for all students and staff who have experiences of displacement and includes professional development opportunities, invitations to regular cultural and social events, and pastoral support from a Sanctuary Community Coordinator.
Oxford is a keen supporter of CARA , which provides urgently needed help to academics in immediate danger, those forced into exile and many who choose to work on in their home countries despite serious risks.
Alongside providing financial support, Oxford is a member of CARA’s UK Universities and Research Network which aims to brings together UK higher educations and research institutions ‘in support of persecuted and at-risk academics, and in the defence and promotion of academic and university freedoms worldwide’.
The University recently renewed its commitment to CARA Fellowships for academics at risk, and welcomes applications from academics at risk.
Staff and students may hold concerns regarding the University's policies on donations, research and investments.
Information regarding the University’s governance and key policies can be found below:
The Trustees of the Oxford Endowment Fund have set the following restrictions for the fund:

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/organisation/fundraising:
The University seeks to protect and grow its income streams by diversifying income sources and pursuing an ambitious development strategy which seeks to fund core long-term academic activities.
A key source of income is fundraising, led by the Development and Alumni Engagement office.
DAE is helping to generate philanthropic donations, in support of the University’s strategic priorities.
The generosity of donors helps us to ensure that the most talented students can study here regardless of their background, that our research provides benefit on an international scale and that our expertise is brought to bear on some of the world’s biggest challenges.
Recent achievements include:
A generous donation from the Uehiro Foundation on Ethics and Education for the study of practical ethics has been received.
This support has endowed the Uehiro Institute for Practical Ethics and brings together researchers from across the disciplines to answer ethical questions concerning some of the biggest issues of our time.
Donors have supported a range of academic posts and research programmes across all areas of the University.
Examples include the endowment of a professorship in paediatric oncology; funding for a new centre to boost the learning and teaching of Chinese; research into human lactation; and support to improve the quality and understanding of climate coverage in journalism and media around the world.
The Gardens, Libraries and Museums at Oxford have benefitted from support including a significant legacy gift to the Ashmolean Museum for the Heberden Coin Room, and the endowment of the Head of Conservation and Heritage Science at the Bodleian Libraries.
For more information about philanthropy at Oxford visit our website .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/organisation/future-projects:
The University of Oxford works to ensure that the facilities and resources provided for teaching, learning, research and administrative activities are world class.
In order to help us achieve our strategic objectives, the University is working on a number of key projects that will ensure our current staff and students, as well as those to come, have the resources they need.
A new graduate society on the Radcliffe Science Library site.
The new Centre for the Humanities will provide all of the staff and students of our faculties with facilities to support our outstanding research and teaching.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/organisation/annual-reviews:
The Annual Review is now part of the University's Financial Statements .
Past University and Colleges Financial Statements .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/organisation/finance-and-funding:
The key financial objectives of the University are to provide the long-term resources to strengthen and further its pre-eminent position – nationally and internationally – as a place of outstanding learning, teaching, and research; and to enable it to provide additional support to its three core priorities of students, academic posts, and buildings.
% change year on year
13,920 Postgraduate students
+4.5%
NEW Access and Participation plan approved
12,470 Undergraduate students
-1.7%
20.7% of undergraduates admitted during 2023/24 UCAS cycle are from the most disadvantaged backgrounds 1
£778.9m Research income
-1.3% underlying growth: +3%
1st in the Times Higher Education World University Rankings (9th time running)
£148m Research income from industry
+0.5%
6,905 Research-related agreements executed
£746.8m Educational publishing income
-0.8%
£99.3m Operating profit
more than 180 million visits to Oxford Academic research platform
71 Major academic publishing awards won
1,321 participants in the UNIQ 2023/24 programme
1,642 Students from low-income backgrounds supported by Crankstart scholarships
182 participants in our Opportunity Oxford bridging programme
+6.4%
179 Active spinout companies
Adjusted surplus
before other gains and one-off exceptional items
The colleges of Oxford University (apart from Kellogg, St Cross and Reuben) are financially autonomous.
In 2022–23, the aggregate annual incoming resources (including donations for capital projects or endowment) of these 36 colleges amounted to £668.5m.
The three main sources of income are teaching, research and residential (38% of the aggregate income), legacies and donations (27%), and investment income (28%).
Other income derives mostly from trading activity such as vacation conferences.
Total resources expended amounted to about £578m in 2022/23; 82% of this expenditure was directly attributed to core activities, including teaching, research and residential services.
The balance is split between the costs of fundraising, running trading activities such as conferences and tourism, and investment management costs.
The University has endowment reserves of £1.9bn.
Individual colleges have their own endowment assets, which amount to £6.4 bn.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/organisation/harassment-and-sexual-misconduct:
The University of Oxford is committed to fostering a safe environment in which all students can thrive.
Harassment and sexual misconduct in any form are not tolerated here.
This comprehensive guide on harassment and sexual misconduct has been developed in accordance with the University’s Student Disciplinary Procedure (Non-Academic Cases) effective from 1 September 2025, which includes updated regulations and procedures related to student conduct.
For any related queries, please contact [email protected] .
This page is the University’s Single Comprehensive Source of Information, published in line with the Office for Students Condition of Registration E6.
It sets out the University’s approach to preventing and responding to harassment and sexual misconduct involving students, and brings together policies, procedures, guidance and key information relevant to both students and staff.
The page provides information about how the University works to prevent incidents through training and awareness, including guidance on behaviours that constitute harassment and sexual misconduct.
It explains reporting routes for incidents involving a student or a member of University staff and sets out the procedures that follow a report.
The page also outlines available support services, the University’s policy concerning staff-student relationships, and how the University balances its responsibilities to protect freedom of speech and academic freedom while fostering a safe and respectful environment for all.
This guidance applies to all students studying at Oxford.
However, it should be noted that certain University services may not be available to students enrolled on non-award-bearing courses*.
Where relevant, this distinction is highlighted in specific sections of the guidance.
Students on non-award-bearing courses are advised to contact the Proctors’ Office ( [email protected] ) or their course director/administrator.
* Award-bearing courses include undergraduate and postgraduate certificates and diplomas, masters’ and doctoral degrees, whereas non-award-bearing courses (which may also be referred to as ‘Open Access Courses’) do not lead directly to a qualification from Oxford.
The University of Oxford is a collegiate University.
While this guidance outlines University policies and procedures, many students are also members of one of Oxford’s colleges or permanent private halls.
These are independent entities and will have their own policies, procedures and sources of support.
Where applicable, students are strongly encouraged to consult their college for further guidance and to familiarise themselves with college-specific approaches to harassment and sexual misconduct.
Depending on the situation, either college-specific or University policies and procedures may apply.
For guidance on how it is determined whether the University or college will take responsibility for handling a report, students should refer to the section below; ‘Reporting: When the University may take action’.
The University is committed to preventing and addressing harassment and sexual misconduct.
These core policies:
Set out the behaviours that may constitute harassment and sexual misconduct;
Outline the standards of behaviour expected of all members of the University community, including students and staff; and
Provide clear processes for raising concerns and accessing support.
Key policies and procedures about student conduct
Key policies and procedures about staff conduct
Other relevant policies for all University members
University policies uphold both freedom of speech and academic freedom, which are central to its mission.
The University also has a responsibility, through its policies and practices, to foster an environment where students feel safe, supported, and able to participate fully in university life.
It is important to distinguish between academic content that may be challenging or offensive, where its use serves legitimate academic purpose and is protected under academic freedom, and conduct that is unlawful and contrary to University policies, such as harassment and discrimination, which is not.
Colleges will have their own policies and procedures.
The University recognises that experiencing or witnessing harassment or sexual misconduct can have a significant impact, whether a student has been directly affected, witnessed something happen, or has been named in a report.
Support is available to students regardless of whether the incident(s) occurred within the collegiate University or elsewhere.
Many services offer the option to speak with identity-specific advisors or counsellors, including individuals with lived experience or specialist understanding of race, gender, sexuality, disability, or other aspects of identity.
*Award-bearing courses include undergraduate and postgraduate certificates and diplomas, masters’ and doctoral degrees, whereas non-award-bearing courses (which may also be referred to as ‘Open Access Courses’) do not lead directly to a qualification from Oxford.
There are a range of services available for students who have experienced any form of harassment or sexual misconduct.
Students do not have to go through a situation alone, and accessing support does not mean a formal report has to be made.
Support available includes the following confidential options:
Sexual Harassment and Violence Support Service – confidential specialist support for students who have experienced sexual harassment or violence, domestic abuse, relationship abuse, coercive control and stalking.
Independent of colleges and departments.
Independent Sexual Violence Advisor (ISVA) – The ISVA service is independent of a student's college and the University.
The ISVA can support as an advocate if the student is reporting sexual violence to their college, the Proctors’ Office or the police.
They provide information about the criminal justice process and can support throughout this journey.
Non-therapeutic emotional support is also offered.
Support is ongoing and can range from weekly to monthly appointments, including beyond a students' time at Oxford.
Harassment Advisor Network – Harassment advisors are available across the collegiate University to offer confidential support and guidance to anyone affected by harassment.
Oxford SU Advice – Independent advice and support on navigating collegiate University processes including how to access support, report incidents of harassment and sexual misconduct and access academic adjustments.
College welfare teams – each college has its own support framework, which may include welfare officers, peer supporters, nurses and chaplains (who support students of all faiths and none).
These teams can offer support to students affected by harassment or sexual misconduct, providing a safe space to talk and help to access further specialist help if needed.
University Counselling Service – professional, confidential counselling and wellbeing support.
Discussion with the Proctors’ Office ( [email protected] )  before any participation in a formal process.
Specialist external organisations – There are a number of organisations locally and nationally providing specialist support to individuals affected by sexual harassment or violence, domestic and relationship abuse and stalking.
Full details of each area of support and contact information can be found on the pages linked to above.
It is natural for students to feel unsure about what to do after witnessing or becoming aware of an incident of harassment or sexual misconduct.
Support is available for students to help process the experience and understand how to respond safely and appropriately.
The Sexual Harassment and Violence Support Service for advice on how to support someone impacted by sexual misconduct.
Harassment Advisor Network – Harassment Advisors are available across the collegiate University to offer confidential support and guidance to anyone affected by harassment.
Oxford SU Advice for independent advice on how to navigate collegiate University processes, including participating as a witness in a formal report, accessing support services, and managing academic adjustments.
College welfare teams – each college has its own support system, which may include welfare officers, peer supporters, nurses or chaplains (for all faiths and none).
These teams can offer support to students affected by harassment or sexual misconduct, providing a safe space to talk and helping students access further help if needed.
Information and training on bystander intervention and how to support others safely.
No formal steps are needed to speak with someone.
Being named in a report or involved in an investigation can be distressing and confusing.
Dedicated, impartial, and confidential support is available for students who have been reported for, or are otherwise alleged to have carried out, harassment or sexual misconduct.
Reported Student Service – a confidential specialist support service for students who are subject to an allegation of harassment or sexual misconduct.
Oxford SU Advice - for independent advice on how to navigate collegiate University processes, including attending informal meetings and formal interviews, providing guidance on statements and evidence and helping to navigate accessing support services and academic adjustments.
College welfare teams - each college has its own support system, which may include welfare officers, peer supporters, nurses or chaplains (for all faiths and none).
These teams can offer confidential support to students who have been reported for, or are otherwise alleged to have carried out, harassment or sexual misconduct, helping with access to further support if needed.
Discussion with the Proctors’ Office ( [email protected] ) before any participation in a formal process so students know what to expect.
Seeking support does not affect the outcome of an investigation, and it is available to students regardless of how far the process progresses.
If a student’s experience is affecting their ability to engage with their studies or assessment, there is a range of academic support routes available.
These can ensure that a student’s circumstances are considered.
Resources include:
Student Handbook – outlines a student’s academic rights, responsibilities, and guidance on available processes.
Mitigating Circumstances Notices (MCEs) – can be submitted if personal circumstances affect a student’s ability to sit exams or complete coursework or their performance in an exam.
Exam adjustments or academic dispensations – such as deadline extensions, alternative assessments, or deferral options.
Suspension of status - Suspension of status within the University ‘stops the clock’ for all elements of a student’s course, including residence, fees and terms for which a particular status may be held.
This is not an exhaustive list, and further information is available on the Problems completing your assessment webpage .
The most appropriate support will depend on a student’s individual circumstances.
College Offices and Welfare Leads; or Departmental Academic Offices can help guide students in the first instance through options and next steps.
Students can access independent advice from the Oxford SU Advice , including support with navigating these conversations.
Non-award-bearing students, in some circumstances, may have recourse to access Harassment Advisors, the Proctors’ Office, and the Sexual Harassment and Violence Support Service, who can refer to external support services as appropriate.
Students should also consider contacting their department for signposting to any additional sources of support relevant to their course or individual circumstances.
Students who have experienced harassment or sexual misconduct can decide how, when, and if they want to share what happened.
A formal report is not required to receive support e.g.
via the routes outlined in the section above.
Many students begin by speaking with a support service or a trusted member of staff, asking questions, and exploring their options.
Disclosure:
A disclosure occurs when a student shares information about an incident of potential harassment or sexual misconduct.
This might have been an incident involving another student or a staff member, and the disclosure may be made to a member of University and/or college staff, or to the University by other means (other than a report).
The intention is typically to seek emotional or practical support, advice, and information about formal reporting options.
Formal report or complaint:
A written request for the University to investigate an incident through its procedures is referred to as a formal ‘report’ under the Student Disciplinary Procedure (Non-Academic Cases) or a ‘complaint’ under the Procedure for Complaints of Harassment Against University Staff :
A formal report can be against another student and is considered under the Student Disciplinary Procedure (Non-Academic Cases) .
A formal complaint can be against a member of University staff and considered under the Procedure for Complaints of Harassment Against University Staff.
For clarity, throughout this section and those that follow, all reference to ‘formal reports’ and ‘formal complaints’ will be described as a ‘formal report’ of harassment and sexual misconduct.
Colleges will have their own reporting procedures.
Where applicable, students are strongly encouraged to consult their college for further guidance and to familiarise themselves with college-specific procedures for reporting harassment and sexual misconduct.
Support is available to students before, during, and after making a report.
Support when deciding whether to report
Confidential support is available if a student is unsure what to do or is seeking help thinking through their options:
Sexual Harassment and Violence Support Service
Oxford SU Advice
Harassment Advisory Network
College welfare teams
If a student talks to a staff member who isn’t part of a support service, they can help connect them to the right support service for their needs.
For disclosures involving another student:
Where possible and appropriate to the circumstances it may be possible for the matter to be resolved locally, for example by departmental staff.
A staff member will keep a record of the disclosure, and seek advice from the Proctors’ Office, if needed.
Disclosures involving allegations against a member of University staff :
What happens after a student’s disclosure involving a member of staff will depend on the specific circumstances and the nature of the concern.
Each disclosure is considered individually, and the next steps will be guided by what is appropriate and proportionate in that context.
In some situations, if it is appropriate, it may be possible to resolve the issue through an informal approach such as mediation or facilitated conversations.
For more details about what the process might involve, and the other possible steps that may follow a disclosure, students should refer to the Procedure for Reports of Harassment Against University Staff .
Disclosures will generally be kept confidential, and students’ preferences will usually be respected.
The University works to ensure that as much as possible, students are in control of what happens next.
However, there are certain situations in which the University may need to share information, or to act including (but not limited to):
Where the University assesses that the welfare of any person requires that a disclosure cannot be kept in confidence, such as where there are welfare concerns that indicate a risk of serious harm in accordance with the University’s Confidentiality Guidance.
Where the disclosure concerns a medical student or a PGCE student and there are Fitness to Practise/Fitness to Teach implications arising from the disclosure.
Where the University has safeguarding responsibilities that require further action.
For the purpose of taking legal or other specialist advice or to notify insurers.
If the University does need to act, students will be kept informed throughout where reasonably possible and offered support every step of the way, via the support services listed in the Section: Student Support.
Some disclosures and reports may involve behaviour that could also be a criminal offence, such as assault, stalking, or threats of violence.
These cases are taken seriously, and students can choose whether to report the matter to the police, the University, or both.
Unless the University decides that someone’s welfare requires sharing the information, or there are other exceptional circumstances, the University will respect students’ wishes about whether the matter should be reported to the police.
If the police are involved If a student reports an incident to the police and there is an active criminal investigation, the University will usually pause its own disciplinary process.
The Student Disciplinary Procedure (Non-Academic Cases) details the circumstances under which the University may investigate at the same time as the police and what precautionary measures might be put in place in the meantime.
Deciding which process to use Because the Proctors will not normally investigate while the police are doing so, if a student’s report involves criminal conduct, the student may need to decide whether:
They want the matter to be handled by the police and the Courts, or
They prefer to ask the University to consider investigating under its own procedures
Students are encouraged to refer to the Student Disciplinary Procedure (Non-Academic Cases) to understand the University’s investigatory process and how it differs from that of the criminal justice system.
The University will support the student in any decision they take, and will provide practical and substantive support through:
Student Welfare and Support Services
Appropriate specialist caseworkers in the Proctors’ Office.
For more information, view the Student Disciplinary Procedure (Non-Academic Cases) .
If a disclosure or a report about a member of staff involves behaviour that could amount to a criminal offence (e.g.
assault or threats), it may not be dealt with under the standard harassment procedure.
In these cases, the Head of Department, in consultation with:
the Head of Employee Relations, and
the Director of Student Welfare and Support Services (if students are involved),
will decide which University procedure is most appropriate.
For more information, view the Procedure for Complaints of Harassment Against University Staff .
If a student decides to make a formal report about harassment or sexual misconduct, the process will depend on whether the report concerns another student or a member of University staff.
Support is available to guide students through either route.
They do not need to go through the process alone.
Reports about a student
Formal reports about students are to be submitted to the Proctors’ Office and considered under the University’s Student Disciplinary Procedure (Non-Academic Cases) .
Students can report in one of the following ways:
By email - by submitting the student report form to [email protected]
In person – by contacting the Proctors’ Office ( [email protected] ) to arrange a meeting or ask questions
A specific form is used for reports against students.
Support completing the form is available from the:
the Proctors’ Office.
Step-by-step written guidance is also available in the Student Disciplinary Procedure (Non-Academic Cases) .
Students can contact the Proctors’ Office ( [email protected] ) for confidential information and guidance, even if they are not ready to make a report.
When the University may take action (student reports) The University may only take formal action under the Student Disciplinary Procedure (Non-Academic Cases) where the behaviour occurred in a University context - such as in University or college premises, or during academic, social, sporting, or cultural activities of the University.
The University has discretion as to whether or not to investigate, having regard to a range of factors.
In particular, the University will not usually take formal action in relation to matters which occurred more than six months previously.
Further relevant factors will include whether the matter has previously been determined by another organisation (e.g.
a college, or a tribunal) or under another University procedure or where another organisation is better placed to respond (e.g.
a college).
Reports are usually managed by colleges if the matter is internal to college life, e.g.
if the report involves two members of the same college.
However, the University will take the lead where the reporting and reported parties are members of different colleges.
For full details about the factors which the Proctors’ Office takes into account when deciding whether or not to investigate, view the Student Disciplinary Procedure (Non-Academic Cases) .
Reports about University staff
Formal reports about University staff are to be submitted to the relevant Head of Department and are considered under the University’s Procedure for Complaints of Harassment Against University Staff .
Any references to the ‘head of department’ should be taken to mean the head of department, faculty board chair, head of division or their equivalent, or the person to whom any of these has formally delegated responsibility.
Students can:
Email a written report to the Head of Department (contact details are available on the relevant departmental website)
Request a meeting with the Head of Department before submitting a report, to discuss concerns and ask questions
The Procedure for Complaints of Harassment Against University Staff includes guidance on what a written report should contain.
If students are unsure how to begin or would like to speak to someone first, they can contact the Head of Employee Relations at [email protected] for confidential advice.
This does not commit a student to submitting a report.
For information about reports of harassment or sexual misconduct against a member of college staff, students should refer to their college procedures.
Confidential support is available for students who are uncertain about how to proceed or who need assistance in understanding their reporting options:
In some situations, students may prefer to explore informal or alternative ways of addressing concerns, particularly if they are not ready to submit a formal report.
These options are designed to support student wellbeing and help establish safe and respectful boundaries.
Informal resolution
Informal resolution may be appropriate in certain cases and can be facilitated with support from a Head of Department, Director of Graduate Studies, Human Resource teams or Senior Tutor.
This might involve a structured conversation, clarification of expectations, or practical steps to help resolve a concern without formal proceedings.
Third-party reporting Reports involving students
In certain cases, as set out in more detail in the Student Disciplinary Procedure (Non-Academic Cases) , a report about a student may be submitted on another student’s behalf by a trusted third party where the student consents (for example, reports made by a specialist sexual violence support service).
The Proctors’ Office caseworker will:
Reports involving staff
The University will be limited in the action it can take if the student who is raising the complaint is not willing to take part in the process.
If a student has reservations about raising a complaint, they should discuss their concerns with their Head of Department who will discuss the options available for taking a matter forward, depending on the circumstances.
Students are welcome to have the support of a trusted person, such as another student, a member of staff, or a support service, when making the report.
Anonymous reporting
Anonymous reports will only be considered in exceptional circumstances where there are compelling reasons to do so.
While limited investigation may be possible in certain cases, it is generally very difficult to proceed without identifying the reporting individual, due to the fundamental requirement that the individual reported against is given the opportunity to respond to the report.
Students should also be aware that, even where a report is submitted anonymously or where identifying information is withheld from the subject of the report, it may still be possible for the individual concerned to infer the identity of the reporting party based on the circumstances described.
Useful Documents and Guidance
Before making a report, students are expected to read the relevant procedures and guidance as outlined above.
These documents explain how to submit a report, what to include, and what to expect from the process:
Student Disciplinary Procedure (Non-Academic Cases)
Procedure for Complaints of Harassment Against University Staff
When a student shares information with the University about harassment or sexual misconduct, it will be treated with care.
We know these matters can be difficult to talk about, and such information will be handled securely, in line with University policies and safeguarding responsibilities.
While the process is ongoing, students will be asked to keep the matter confidential.
Some elements of the matter (which will usually include details of the University process and outcomes) will remain confidential after the process has concluded, but there will be no limitations placed on a student wishing to speak about their experiences of the underlying events in their own words.
Information is managed in accordance with the University’s Data Protection Policy , Harassment Policy , Student Disciplinary Procedure (Non-Academic Cases) , and other relevant procedures.
Information is only shared when necessary and with as few people as possible, typically to:
Carry out a fair investigation
Carry out procedures related to a report, including instances where the matter progresses under the University processes such as disciplinary or appeals procedures
Put safety or wellbeing measures in place
Comply with contractual obligations
Comply with legal or safeguarding duties
Support academic arrangements or student welfare.
Depending on the nature of the report,  those with whom information is shared may include (but is not limited to) staff in the Proctors’ Office (for reports about students), Student Welfare and Support Services (including the Disability Advisory Service), Education Policy Support, Legal Services, People Department, college and departmental contacts, individuals involved in the procedure (such as the subject of the report, witnesses, or an internal or external investigator), decision makers in the context of University processes, or third parties such as external authorities, external funders, regulatory bodies or courts in limited cases.
When a formal report is made, information is shared in a number of ways at the outset of the process, including the examples below:
The subject of the report will usually be informed of the complaint and the identity of the reporter and will usually receive the evidence relied on as part of the University responding to the matter and/or any further University processes.
Any senior officers who may be taking or supporting decisions on the report, for example a copy of the written complaint will be forwarded to the Head of Employee Relations and, with the student’s permission, the Director of Student Welfare and Support Services.
Where appropriate, a senior member of the relevant college if the reported University staff holds a joint position with a college.
Considering the need for confidentiality, the University will specify that students who have made a formal report or students who are named in a formal report should only discuss the matter with certain people, who are likely to include:
Anyone students speak to should understand that the process is confidential, that information should not be shared further, and should be shown a copy of the Student Disciplinary Procedure (Non-Academic Cases) for a formal report involving a student, or the Procedure for Complaints of Harassment Against University Staff for a formal report involving University staff.
If a report involves potential criminal behaviour, the University will not usually contact the police without a student’s consent.
However, information may be shared without consent including if:
There is a serious and immediate risk to the student’s safety or the safety of others.
The University has a legal obligation to do so.
A request is made as part of an active police investigation.
In such cases, only the information necessary to meet the purpose for sharing will be shared, and the University will aim to keep the student informed where reasonably possible.
For more information on how these situations are handled, view Criminal Conduct in the Reporting section of this page.
If students have questions about confidentiality or how their information will be used, they can ask:
The Proctors’ Office (for reports about students) [email protected] .
Their Head of Department or the People Department (for reports about staff).
When a formal report of harassment or sexual misconduct is made, the University may launch an investigation.
What happens next depends on whether the report involves a student or a member of staff and is managed under the appropriate University procedure:
Student Disciplinary Procedure (Non-Academic Cases) - for reports involving students.
Procedure for Complaints of Harassment Against University Staff – for reports involving staff.
These procedures outline the investigation process, clarify decision-making responsibilities, and explain how all parties involved will be supported and kept informed.
Colleges will have their own procedures for investigating and making decisions about harassment and sexual misconduct.
Where applicable, students are strongly encouraged to consult their college for further guidance and to familiarise themselves with college-specific procedures.
Full details about how the University responds to reports of harassment and sexual misconduct made against a student are set out in the Student Disciplinary Procedure (Non-Academic Misconduct) , which should be referred to for comprehensive and definitive guidance.
To support students’ understanding, the following key aspects are outlined below with reference to the relevant sections of the full procedure:
The decision to investigate
On receipt of a report, a Proctors’ Office Caseworker will decide whether or not to investigate.
In order to make this decision, the Caseworker may make preliminary enquiries.
If the decision is to not investigate , and the reporting student is dissatisfied with this decision, they have the option to make a complaint under the University’s Student Complaints Procedure .
If the decision is to investigate , the Caseworker will usually send the subject of the report a letter which identifies the parts of the Code of Discipline they are alleged to have breached; and explains what, factually, they are alleged to have done (i.e., what alleged conduct will be investigated).
It will normally be appropriate for the subject of the report to be informed of the identity of the reporter in this letter.
Full details on the decision to investigate, including the conditions under which the Proctors’ Office will or will not investigate can be found in Section 5 of the Procedure .
Investigatory process
A structured and impartial process is followed when investigating reports.
Investigations are conducted by trained caseworkers from the Proctors’ Office or external investigators, both of whom are referred to in the Procedure as ‘the Investigator’.
Interviews The Investigator may take any step to investigate and to assemble relevant evidence.
This may include interviewing the reporter and the subject of the report at an early stage, as well as interviewing any witnesses.
Full details of who may accompany an interviewee as a supporter can be found in Section 5 of the Procedure .
Upon the completion of the investigation, the Investigator will present a Proctor with a written account of the investigation in an Investigation Report.
Full details about the investigatory process, including details of the interview procedure, the ways in which accounts of the reporter and the subject are shared, and an overview of the expected contents of the Investigation Report, can be found in Sections 5 of the Procedure .
Decision-making process-referral for disciplinary action
Referral decisions are based on the findings of the investigation and are made by the Proctors.
The Proctor will review the Investigation Report and decide whether there are reasonable grounds for believing the Code of Discipline has been breached, and whether it is fair, just and reasonable to proceed with disciplinary action by referring the matter for a disciplinary hearing.
Full details, including all factors considered in the Proctors decision can be found in Section 5 of the Procedure .
Possible outcomes The decision is communicated to the reporter and the subject of the report in a Referral Decision Letter.
If the decision is to take no further action, the Referral Decision Letter to the reporting student will explain if the University is going to take any other steps as a result of the report (e.g.
reviewing its procedures).
A reporter who is dissatisfied with the way the Procedure has been followed has the option of making a complaint.
If the report is to be referred on to a disciplinary hearing the Referral Decision Letter to the subject of the report will:
Refer the matter to the Student Disciplinary Panel.
For less serious matters, give the subject of the report the alternative option of having the matter considered by a Proctors’ Disciplinary Hearing.
In some cases, offer the subject of the report the opportunity to admit the facts and breaches in the Referral Letter and accept a proposed penalty (an ‘Agreed Determination’).
Full details on the potential outcomes of the decision-making process, including overviews of the content of both the Referral Decision Letter and its accompanying rationale, can be found in Sections 5 and 6, and Appendix A of the Procedure .
What to expect: Proctors’ Disciplinary Hearing
A student is permitted to appoint a supporter to attend the hearing with them for moral support.
The hearing will start with a member of staff from the Proctors’ Office asking the student whether they accept the alleged breach(es) of the Code of Discipline set out in the Referral Decision Letter.
The hearing will have an ‘inquisitorial format’, which means that the Proctor will lead the hearing, consider evidence and the subject’s representations on the referral before making a decision rather than a ‘case’ being presented by the Investigator.
Full details can be found in Section 6 of the Procedure .
The Proctor will inform the subject of the report whether they have been found to have breached the Code of Discipline and the subject will be given the opportunity to present evidence and representations in mitigation.
The Outcome Letter The Proctor will communicate the decision in an Outcome Letter.
A full overview of the content of the Outcome Letters can be found be found in Section 6 of the Procedure .
A reporter who is dissatisfied with the way the Procedure has been followed has the option of making a complaint as described in the Section: Decision to investigate .
For full details on the Proctors’ Disciplinary Hearing, including the possibility of the hearing being conducted in writing, can be found in Section 6 of the Procedure .
What to expect: The Student Disciplinary Panel (SDP)
The Student Disciplinary Panel will be a panel comprising three members, who will choose a chair for the hearing in question.
One of the members of the Student Disciplinary Panel may be an external barrister or solicitor.
When the referral to the Student Disciplinary Panel is made, the day-to day handling of the matter will be transferred to the Secretary to the Student Disciplinary Panel ( [email protected] ).
What to expect: The Student Disciplinary Panel Hearing The subject of a report is permitted to appoint a supporter to attend the hearing with them for moral support.
The reporter usually attends part of the hearing as a witness and is also permitted to appoint a supporter.
The Student Disciplinary Panel hearing is an ‘inquisitorial’ process.
This means that the panel appointed will lead the hearing and decide the case on the basis of the referral and any other additional evidence presented at the hearing.
The Panel will then first consider the evidence relating to whether there has been a breach of the Code of Discipline and will make a finding on the breach.
If the Panel finds that there has been a breach, they will then consider the question a of penalty, taking into account any mitigating and aggravating factors.
Examples (but not an exhaustive list) of the penalties which the SDP can impose, separately or in any combination, are listed in Section 6 of the Procedure.
Full details about the SDP and the hearing process, including how panel members are appointed, who may act as a supporter for the subject of a report, the permitted and prohibited aspects of the supporter's role, the exceptional circumstances under which legal representation is allowed, and when the Panel may seek legal guidance, can be found in Section 6 of the Procedure .
The Outcome Letter
The SDP Secretary will send the reporter, the subject of the report, and the Proctor the SDP’s reasoned decision including their finding as to whether the subject breached the Code of Discipline and details of any penalty in an ‘Outcome Letter’.
A full overview of the content of the Outcome Letters is set out in Section 6 of the Procedure .
A reporter who is dissatisfied with the way the Procedure has been followed has the option of making a complaint as described in the Section: Decision to investigate.
Appeals
A formal process is in place for appealing certain decisions, with specified grounds and procedures outlined in the policy.
An appeal against a decision of a Proctors’ Disciplinary Hearing or the Student Disciplinary Panel must be made within two weeks of the date of the written decision.
An appeal must be made in writing to the Secretary to the Student Appeals Panel ( [email protected] ).
Section 7 of the Procedure sets out the grounds on which an appeal against a Proctors’ Disciplinary Procedure or a SDP may be made.
On receiving the appeal, the Student Appeals Panel will review the submission.
The Panel may ask written questions of the subject of the report, the Investigator, or any witness during the review.
Any information will then be shared with the subject who will be given an opportunity to comment on it.
Student Appeals Panel - Potential outcomes
The Student Appeals Panel’s decision may confirm or reject the Proctors’ Disciplinary Hearing or Student Disciplinary Panel’s decision (including on any breach and/or penalty) or decide any other outcome which would have been within their power to decide.
The Panel’s decision will be one from a list of three detailed in Section 7 of the Procedure.
The Student Disciplinary Panel will communicate their reasoned decision in the Appeal Outcome Letter to the subject of the report, the Proctor and the Student Disciplinary Panel Secretary.
A full overview of the content of the letter can be found in Section 7 of the Procedure .
Full details on the appeals process, including details on any re-hearing, can be found in Section 7 of the Procedure .
Additional arrangements for harassment and sexual misconduct
In cases involving harassment and sexual misconduct additional considerations and arrangements may be necessary and will be considered under the Student Disciplinary Procedure (Non-Academic Cases) .
The principles that will be applied in such cases; and guidance applicable to cases of sexual misconduct where there is an alleged lack of consent can be found in Section 5 of the Procedure.
Timescales and influencing factors
The University’s aim is to conclude its consideration of any report under the Student Disciplinary Procedure (Non-Academic Cases ) within 90 days of the receipt of the report.
If the procedure is paused under the criminal conduct provisions (section 5 of the Procedure ) or to allow another procedure to follow first (for example Fitness to Study), that period of time will not count towards the 90 days.
Generally, an investigation and Proctors’ Disciplinary Hearing/Student Disciplinary Panel hearing should conclude within 70 calendar days, and any appeal to the Student Appeals Panel should be concluded within a further 20 calendar days.
However, this timescale may not be met in certain cases, such as those which are complex due to the unavailability of participants, or for other reasons.
Full details, including the timescales for each stage of the investigatory, decision-making, and appeals process, can be found in Sections 5, 6 and 7 of the Procedure .
Important note
This summary is provided to aid understanding.
The Student Disciplinary Procedure (Non-Academic Misconduct) remains the definitive and complete source of information for reports of harassment and sexual misconduct made against a student.
Full details about how the University responds to reports of harassment and sexual misconduct made against a member of University staff are set out in the Procedure for Complaints of Harassment Against University Staff , which should be referred to for comprehensive and definitive guidance.
To support students’ understanding, the following key aspects are outlined below with reference to the relevant sections of the full Procedure :
On receipt of a report the Head of Department will in consultation with the Head of Employee Relations and the Director of Student Welfare and Support Services, take steps as necessary or appropriate to understand the nature of the report and the outcome sought.
The Head of Department will then decide how to proceed and inform all parties in writing.
The Head of Department may make such enquiries, or commission an investigation, as necessary, to determine the complaint.
The Head of Department may also determine that immediate interim action is necessary, pending the outcome of a formal process.
The purpose of an investigation is to establish the relevant factual evidence in connection with the allegations(s) made by the reporter.
This will usually involve an appointed investigator meeting separately with the reporter, the subject of the report and any witnesses, and the preparation of a written report which will be forwarded to the Head of Department.
Decision-making process
The Head of Department will consider the scope and findings of the investigation and whether any further investigation is required before making a decision.
Possible outcomes
Depending on the nature of the complaint and evidence found, including findings of any investigation report, the Head of Department, in consultation with the Head of Employee Relations and the Director of Student Welfare and Support Services will take one of a number of possible actions, as listed in the Procedure .
The Head of Department will inform both the reporter and the subject of the report of their decision in writing.
Full details of the contents of the letters to the reporter and the subject of the report can be found in the Procedure .
In summary: The letter to the reporter will state whether the report has been upheld, partially upheld or not upheld.
The letter will include any recommendations the Head of Department is making in relation to the complaint and information about any right to appeal the Head of Department’s decision.
If the complaint has been upheld or partially upheld the reporter will be informed of their option of taking their complaint to the Proctors’.
Further details can be found in the Procedure .
Full details of the content of the letter to the University staff who is the subject of the report can be found in the Procedure .
The Head of Department will also inform any other parties who have been asked to participate in an investigation that the investigation has been concluded.
Appeals If the report is not upheld or only partially upheld, a reporter can appeal in writing to the University’s Registrar on specified grounds, normally within two weeks of being informed of the outcome of the report.
Appeals are conducted by way of a review of the papers; there is no reinvestigation or rehearing of the evidence.
The consequence of a reporter's appeal being upheld is that they may seek redress as explained in the Procedure .
Every effort is made to achieve a prompt resolution to reports, the aim being normally to conclude the investigation within six weeks.
Both the reporter and the subject of the report will be expected to co-operate with the University in achieving that result.
In the case of an appeal the Registrar will usually consider the student’s appeal and issue a decision within four weeks.
The Procedure for Complaints of Harassment Against University Staff remains the definitive and complete source of information for reports of harassment and sexual misconduct made against University staff.
Oxford offers a range of training opportunities for students as part of the University’s wider commitment to preventing harassment and sexual misconduct across the student community.
These sessions are designed to help students build awareness of consent and harassment.
Consent for Students All students are required to complete the Consent for Students online training programme.
This training is designed to help students understand what consent and healthy relationships means in real-life situations and why they matter.
The online training programme is required, though it is recognised there are a number of reasons why students may choose to opt out if they wish.
While only required to complete the training once, students are encouraged to retake the course annually to refresh their understanding and stay engaged with the content.
The final section of the training includes information specific to Oxford, linking the topic of consent with the University’s approach to all forms of harassment, its relevant policies, how to seek support, and how to report concerns.
Students receive a confirmation email through the University’s online training system CoSy once the training has been completed, which also includes links to further information and resources.
For more details and access* to the programme, visit the Consent for Students webpage .
*The training is accessible to all on course students and staff via SSO (SSO stands for Single Sign-On account; which uses the individual’s Oxford username, password, and multi-factor authentication).
In addition to the required online Consent for Students training, the University and colleges offer further training and awareness programmes to support Oxford’s culture of respect and inclusion.
These may be offered as part of a students’ course or college induction, as well as throughout the year, including:
To support the effective delivery of training:
Colleges and departments play a role in reinforcing the importance of their students completing the Consent for Students online training as part of inductions or start of new academic year communications.
Feedback is collected and reviewed throughout the academic year.
The University monitors student engagement and gathers impact data to review and improve the programme over time.
The University is committed to ensuring that staff have the knowledge and confidence to support students, uphold a respectful environment, and respond appropriately to concerns and disclosures of harassment and sexual misconduct.
All University staff are required to complete the Harassment in Higher Education online training module .
This training covers behaviours related to both harassment and sexual misconduct, and supports the creation of a respectful, inclusive workplace.
The training is supported by Oxford-specific information, including links to relevant policies, reporting procedures, and support services for both staff and students.
Once completed, staff receive a confirmation email through CoSy, the University’s online training system, with signposting to further guidance and resources.
In addition to the main training, the University promotes a range of optional staff training to strengthen understanding and support our positive institutional culture.
This includes:
Responding to Student Disclosures of Harassment and Sexual Misconduct (webinar) - link to follow
Sexual Violence in Context
Bystander Intervention Training
These sessions are designed to expand on core knowledge, equipping staff with the awareness and skills to prevent harassment and sexual misconduct, as well as to confidently support and direct students to appropriate resources when needed.
The University issues guidance to help staff respond confidently and appropriately to disclosures of harassment or sexual misconduct .
This covers how to offer support and signpost services and outlines what happens when a disclosure involves another student or a member of staff.
This guidance helps to ensure that staff respond with care and consistency and in line with University procedures.
Staff who investigate or make decisions about reports involving harassment or sexual misconduct either receive training appropriate to their role or are supported by colleagues who have the relevant skills and knowledge to carry out these responsibilities.
Reports involving students: Investigations are carried out by trained staff in the University’s Proctors’ Office or external investigators.
Members of the Student Disciplinary Panel may also receive case-specific training, including for harassment and sexual misconduct.
Reports involving staff: Investigations are usually conducted by the Head of Department or someone they appoint.
The Head of Department remains responsible for any decisions made.
Investigators and decision-makers receive ongoing support from HR Business Partners, and relevant team leads (who can access support as appropriate) who have the appropriate skills and knowledge to ensure processes are consistent and fair.
Full details about the University’s position on relationships between students and staff are set out in the University Policy Concerning Relationships Between Students and Staff , which should be referred to for comprehensive and definitive guidance.
Colleges will have their own policies concerning relationships between students and staff.
Where applicable, students are strongly encouraged to consult their college for further guidance and to familiarise themselves with college-specific policies.
To support students’ understanding, the following key aspects are outlined below with reference to the relevant sections of the full policy.
Positive professional relationships between members of staff and students are central to students’ educational development and welfare.
However, intimate or close personal relationships between students and staff who have responsibility for them can cause significant problems because of conflicts of interest, imbalance of power and authority, perceived favouritism, and undermining of trust and confidence in the academic process.
To protect the welfare of students, and in the best interests of staff, the University:
Prohibits staff from entering into an intimate relationship with a student for whom they have any responsibility; and
Strongly discourages any other close personal relationship between a staff member and student for whom they have any responsibility that transgresses the boundaries of professional conduct and requires such relationships to be declared.
Staff who fail to comply with the policy, or with any arrangements put in place under it, may be disciplined.
This provision also applies to students, including DPhil students, who are employed in staff roles involving positions of responsibility; such individuals are expected to adhere to the policy as other members of staff are required to do.
Members of staff (which includes graduate students who are employed by the University in a teaching, pastoral, or supervisory capacity) must not take on or assume responsibility for a student:
Even in cases which are not covered by this policy, i.e.
where a staff member does not have and is not likely to have responsibility for a student, staff are strongly encouraged to be cautious before embarking on an intimate or close personal relationship with any student.
Intimate relationship The policy defines an ‘intimate relationship’ as one that includes sexual or romantic relationships, marriage or life partnerships, regardless of gender, gender identity or sexual orientation, including a brief relationship and one-off occurrences, and whether they are conducted in person and/or online and/or via electronic or any other form of communication.
Close personal relationship The policy defines a ‘close personal relationship’ as one that excludes intimate relationships but means a relationship where the nature, content, emotional involvement and/or frequency of interactions and/or communications between a staff member and student transgress the boundaries of professional conduct or may be reasonably perceived to do so.
Guidance on recognising ‘close personal relationships’ that need to be declared can be found at Annex 3 of the Policy .
Staff
The policy defines ‘staff’ to include every individual working within the University under a formal contract of employment or as a casual paid worker or any individual to whom the University offers any privileges or facilities normally available to its employees (such as visiting academics).
Where graduate students work for the University in a teaching, pastoral, or supervisory capacity this policy applies to them in that capacity to the same extent as if they were employees of the University.
Responsibility for a student ‘Responsibility for a student’ is defined widely in the policy, to include any teaching, professional, pastoral or administrative responsibility or authority over a student, whether temporary or permanent, whether formally conferred on or voluntarily assumed by the staff member and whether the responsibility arises in a University or college context.
It includes, but is not limited to, lecturing, teaching classes or seminars, overseeing projects or fieldwork, supervising, and setting/and or marking of examinations or other assessment of any type.
It also includes acting as a mentor or college advisor, and making decisions on internships or work placements.
Guidance on this issue can be found at annex 2 of the Policy .
Advice to students
If an intimate or close personal relationship has developed contrary to this policy, the student is encouraged to disclose it to their Head of Department or Chair of Faculty Board and to a senior member of their college welfare team.
Students should be aware that they would not be penalised by the University for participating in an intimate or close personal relationship with a staff member.
Non-Consensual behaviour If a student finds themselves in receipt of inappropriate behaviour that occurs within a relationship with a member of staff, or they are involved in a relationship with a member of staff that they do not consider to be wholly consensual, regardless of whether that relationship is in breach of the policy, they should make a report to the Head of Department or the Chair of the Faculty Board.
Students who raise concerns or make a report of harassment or sexual misconduct will be supported and will be protected from any form of retaliation by the staff member as a result of making the report.
Students are strongly encouraged to seek support from the Sexual Harassment and Violence Support Service or their college welfare team.
For any queries related to the information on this page, please contact [email protected] .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/organisation/oxford-university-press:
Oxford University Press (OUP) is a department of the University of Oxford, and shares the mission to further excellence in research, scholarship, and education by publishing worldwide.
Oxford University Press publishes for three primary markets: research, education, and English language teaching.
Its mission is to create world-class academic and educational resources and make them available as widely as possible.
">Video of Advancing knowledge and learning with Oxford University Press
Oxford University Press (OUP) has a rich history which can be traced back to the earliest days of printing.
The first book was printed in Oxford in 1478, just two years after Caxton set up the first printing press in England.
The University was involved with several printers in Oxford over the next century.
From the late 1800s OUP began to expand significantly, opening the first overseas office in New York in 1896.
Other international branches followed, including Canada (1904), Australia (1908), India (1912), and Southern Africa (1914).
Today, OUP is a global organization with more than 5,000 employees worldwide.
OUP products and services are sold in most of the countries of the world in a wide range of languages.
It delivers an annual turnover of more than £800 million.
Products cover a broad academic and educational spectrum, partnering with technology providers to make content available to users in a range of formats.
A growing proportion of content published by OUP is produced primarily as digital outputs, from research articles to school workbooks.
OUP has become familiar to millions through a diverse publishing program that includes scholarly works in all academic disciplines, bibles, music, school and college textbooks, children's books, materials for teaching English as a foreign language, dictionaries, and academic journals.
The main criteria when evaluating a new title for publication are its quality and whether it supports the aims of furthering education and disseminating knowledge.
OUP's governance structure is written into the University of Oxford statutes.
The affairs of Oxford University Press are overseen by a group of delegates appointed from the academic staff of the University.
The Delegacy meets fortnightly during academic term-time under the chairmanship of the Vice-Chancellor, receives reports on the management of OUP from the Chief Executive and Finance Committee, and reviews and authorizes publications.
The Delegacy has established a Finance Committee which, under the general authority of the Delegates, directs and manages the business, assets, and finances of the Press.
The Finance Committee consists of a chairman elected by the Delegates, the Vice-Chancellor, the Senior Proctor, six Delegates, and four individuals possessing high qualifications in business or finance (comparable to independent non-executive directors on corporate boards), together with the Chief Executive, the OUP Finance Director, and up to five senior officers of the Press appointed by the Delegates.
The Chief Executive of the Press is responsible for running Oxford University Press, and is also known by the traditional title of Secretary to the Delegates.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/facts-and-figures/student-numbers:
All figures below on Student Statistics are provided by Student Data Modelling and Analytics and data is correct as of 1 December 2024.
Data is rounded to the nearest five (please note, this means that 0 could represent 1 or 2 students).
See below for an explanation of visiting and recognised student status.
175 countries and territories are represented among the Oxford student body.
The largest groups of international students are those from:
International students by country:
Afghanistan
Albania
Angola
Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belarus
Belgium
Belize
Bermuda
Bhutan
Bolivia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Bulgaria
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Cayman Islands
Channel Islands (Other)
Chile
China
Colombia
Congo (Democratic Republic)
Costa Rica
Croatia
Cyprus (EU)
Czech Republic
45
Denmark
Dominican Republic
East Timor (Timor-Leste)
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Eritrea
Estonia
Eswatini
Ethiopia
Fiji
Finland
France
Gambia
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guernsey
Guinea
Guyana
Haiti
Honduras
Hong Kong (SAR)
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Iran
Iraq
Ireland
Isle of Man
Israel
Italy
Ivory Coast
Jamaica
Japan
Jersey
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Korea, Republic of (South)
Kosovo
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Latvia
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Macao (SAR)
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Malta
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mexico
Moldova
Monaco
Mongolia
Montenegro
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar (Burma)
Namibia
Nepal
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
North Macedonia
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Palestinian Territories
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Qatar
Romania
Russia (Russian Federation)
Rwanda
San Marino
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovakia
Slovenia
Soloman Islands
Somalia
South Africa
South Sudan
Spain
Sri Lanka
St Lucia
St Vincent and The Grenadines
Sudan
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Togo
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
USA
United States Virgin Islands
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
*No college represents, almost exclusively, non-matriculated courses such as PG and UG Diplomas and Certificates.
Visiting students are students from overseas (in most cases from countries outside the EU) spending up to one year in Oxford on an undergraduate course related to the degree course they are following in their own country.
Visiting students are members of an Oxford college but are not awarded a degree or any other qualification from Oxford, although colleges can provide a record of achievement, for example for credit purposes at the home institution.
Recognised student status is given to graduate research students who are registered with another university and have been admitted by a University of Oxford faculty or department to undertake research for their degree for a minimum of one and maximum of three terms.
It is also a status given to early career researchers admitted by a faculty or department to work with an Oxford academic or researcher.
Recognised students are not affiliated to an Oxford college or hall and will not receive an Oxford qualification or any formal accreditation for their studies.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/facts-and-figures/admissions-statistics:
Over 23,000 people applied for undergraduate study in 2024 and almost 38,000 people applied for graduate study in 2023.
Oxford usually has around 3,300 undergraduate places and about 5,500 graduate places each year.
Oxford is committed to recruiting the best candidates from all backgrounds and all identities.
The University is committed to fostering an inclusive culture which promotes equality and values diversity.
For more information about our access programmes and how to apply, please see our admissions pages .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/facts-and-figures/staff-numbers:
The total number of employees across the University was 16,905 on 31 July 2024; the University is the largest employer in Oxfordshire.
This figure does not include those employed solely by the colleges, casual workers, or by Oxford University Press.
More details about the University's staff, including breakdowns by gender, age, and more, can be found on the HR Systems website .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/facts-and-figures/faqs:
We have an extensive database of frequently asked questions and recommend that you look there in the first instance.
If you cannot find an answer please submit your question through that interface and we'll answer you as soon as possible.
Go to our Any Questions?
service

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/oxford-people/famous-oxonians:
Among them are 28 British Prime Ministers, at least 30 international leaders, 55 Nobel Prize winners, and 120 Olympic medal winners.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/oxford-people/british-prime-ministers:
Of these, 13 were educated at Christ Church, four at Balliol, three at Trinity, two at Brasenose and one each at Hart Hall (now Hertford), Jesus College, Lincoln, Merton, St Edmund Hall, St Hugh's, St John's, Somerville and University.
Sir Keir Starmer
Rishi Sunak
Liz Truss
Anthony Eden
Earl of Rosebery
Sir Robert Peel
Lord Grenville
Earl of Wilmington

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/oxford-people/award-winners:
Nobel Prizes are awarded annually in physics, chemistry, physiology or medicine, literature, peace and economics.
Director of the Target Discovery Institute in the Nuffield Department of Medicine, 2016 - present; Professor of Medicine; Head of the Nuffield Department of Clinical Medicine, 2004 - 2016
* Colleges are listed for those Laureates who studied at Oxford.
Excluded from this list are those Nobel Laureates whose only connection with Oxford is that they were awarded an honorary degree by the University, and those Laureates who came to Oxford after receiving their Nobel prize.
The Fields Medals recognise existing work and the promise of future achievement in mathematicians under the age of forty.
Oxford recipients include:
The interdisciplinary Balzan Prizes are awarded annually by the International Balzan Foundation.
The Rolf Schock prizes are awarded biennially in the fields of logic and philosophy, mathematics, the visual arts and music.
Excluded from this list are those Schock Laureates whose only connection with Oxford is that they were awarded an honorary degree by the University.
The Abel prizes are awarded annually, and recognizes contributions to the field of mathematics that are of extraordinary depth and influence.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/oxford-people/women-at-oxford:
Women Making History celebrates women’s contribution to scholarship and to progressive change at Oxford, 100 years since the first women were awarded degrees at Oxford in 1920.
The year 2020 is a landmark year in the history of Oxford University; in October, we mark a century since the first women collected their degrees in the Sheldonian Theatre.
To mark this centenary and celebrate the contribution of women to Oxford, we have launched Women Making History: 100 years of Oxford degrees for women .
The centenary provides an opportunity to take stock of our progress in promoting women’s education and advancing gender equality and diversity.
This year marks the 100th anniversary of the formal admission of women at Oxford University.
Find out more about this milestone, and what it means in the context of the University's overall history:
This timeline marks some of the significant moments since 1920, when women at Oxford were first awarded the University degrees that they had earned.
Women have made extraordinary contributions to academic excellence and University life at Oxford, despite considerable resistance.
Most of these inspiring women are well known and many have been pioneers in their field.
From remarkable achievements in science and politics, to important victories for women's movements, such as suffrage and childcare, explore the powerful story of these women and their struggle for gender equality at Oxford University and beyond in the last 100 years.
View timeline .
You can also download another version of the timeline .
To learn more about women’s history at Oxford from 1878 to 1920, explore the interactive timeline on the Education and Activism website , featuring a comprehensive digital collection of original documents from the former women’s colleges and the Bodleian Libraries.
100 years since women were admitted as full members of the University of Oxford, women now hold vital posts at all levels of this institution.
Medical Sciences Division asked 100 of these women to take part in a project to showcase diversity of roles they now hold.
Launching on Thursday 11 February, each day they will be bringing you a new group of incredible women working across the Medical Sciences Division, each reflecting on their journeys, their place in Medical Sciences and their vision for the next 100 years.
Find out more on the MSD website or follow @OxfordMedSci on Twitter.
Women Making History is shining a spotlight on the diverse women who have contributed to Oxford, as well as the women who are shaping its future today.
In the coming months, we will explore and share stories of Oxford women as scholars, students, researchers, academics, clinicians, technicians, librarians, archivists, activists, artists and much more.
If you have a story about an Oxford woman that you think should be told, please get in touch at [email protected] or join the conversation on social media by using the hashtag #WomenatOxford .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/oxford-people/professor-of-poetry:
The Oxford Professorship of Poetry is regarded as one of the most prestigious and prominent posts in the field of poetry.
The Professorship of Poetry is held for four years.
The term of office for the current Professor of Poetry began on 9 October 2023 .
Elections took place in Trinity Term 2023 and a meeting of Convocation was held in Convocation Hall at 3.45pm on Friday 16 June 2023 to announce the appointment of A.
E.
Stallings.
A.
Stallings A.E.
Stallings is a multi-award winning poet whose accolades include a MacArthur Foundation Fellowship, a Guggenheim Fellowship, the Poets’ Prize, and the Willis Barnstone Translation Prize.
Her books include Archaic Smile (1999), Hapax (2006), Olives (2012), Like (2018), and This Afterlife (2022).
She will succeed Alice Oswald.
Professor Marion Turner, Chair of the English Faculty Board at Oxford, said, ‘Poetry is the heart of the English Faculty and other Humanities Faculties in Oxford.
Poetry engages and excites children before prose does.
Poetry crosses cultures and time: in the pandemic many people realised anew its power and importance.
I am delighted to welcome A.E.
Stallings as Oxford’s 47 th Professor of Poetry, confident that she will bring something new and thrilling to the role, as her predecessors have done.
A.E.
Stallings is a poet of unusual range and flexibility.
A translator, a Classicist, a poet who is particularly focused on technique and form, she runs regular workshops with refugees, teaches extensively, and writes on poetry by American, English, Canadian, Greek, Irish, and Afro-Caribbean poets.
We are extremely lucky to be able to host her for the next four years, and I know that her talent will be generative for a generation of our students and other members of the Oxford community.’
A new Oxford Professor of Poetry is elected every four years, and their responsibilities include giving a public lecture each term, as well as an oration at the University’s honorary degree ceremony every other year.
Voting was open to members of Convocation, a group that includes Oxford graduates who have had their degree formally conferred, and members of staff who make up the University’s ‘parliament’, known as Congregation.
1708–18 1718–28 1728–38 1738–41 1741–51 1751–6 1756–66 1766–76 1776–83 1783–93 1793–1802
Christopher Ricks (1933– ) Sir Geoffrey Hill (1932–2016) Simon Armitage (1963– ) Alice Oswald (1966– )
2004–9 2010–15 2015-19 2019-23

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/oxford-people/Oxford-at-the-Olympics:
We are extremely proud of the 170 Olympic medals that our alumni have won on behalf of many nations across the globe.
Hundreds of our alumni have participated and many more have been at the heart of helping to stage the modern Olympics, including London 2012.
Below you will find details of Oxonians who have competed in Olympic and Paralympic Games, listed by athlete, medal type and year.
This list may not be definitive and we would be delighted to hear from you regarding other Oxonians who need to be included.
For some athletes from many years ago, we are struggling to identify the Oxford college they attended – can you help?
We also invite any stories to help bring these names and achievements to life.
To contact us about Oxford and the Olympics, please email us here .
If you would like to find out more about Sport at Oxford, please visit the Development Office page .
Oxford graduate Eddie Eagan was the first individual to win gold in both the summer and winter Olympics.
A rather unique combination of boxing (Antwerp, 1920) and bobsleigh (Lake Placid, 1932) cemented his place in history.
Oxford student John Boland journeyed to Athens in 1896, ostensibly to assist a friend with staging the Games.
He came away as a double Olympic champion after his friend secretly entered him into the Men’s singles and doubles tennis competitions.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/oxford-people/videowalls:
It's the people that make Oxford University the amazing and diverse institution it is today.
Here we've collected together some of our favourite stories from alumni, students, teachers and more.
Oxford has educated people from more than 140 countries and territories around the world
What are Oxford students like?
Probably just like you - come and meet some
Oxford honours the educators who inspired and encouraged their students to study here
Students and tutors give an insiders' view of each undergraduate course on offer
What does it take to prepare for one of the most famous races in the world?
Singing, soldiering and secrets are just a few of the topics Oxford Today has featured recently
If you enjoy these short films then subscribe to our YouTube channel - we are making more films all the time.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/international-oxford/oxfords-international-profile:
Oxford aims to deliver an exceptional education, to carry out world-leading research, and to make significant contributions to society – locally, nationally and globally.
This includes supporting mobility across our staff and student body, and supporting international research collaborations on the basis of academic interest and need.
Our extensive and ever-expanding global links have been developed to serve these principles.
Globalisation is nothing new at Oxford: we welcomed our first international student - Emo of Friesland - in 1190.
The pace of globalisation has accelerated in recent decades, and Oxford now has a strong international character and a presence around the world unlike that of any other university.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/international-oxford/frequently-asked-questions:
Detailed guidance on how to make an application to study at Oxford can be found on the University’s Admissions webpage.
More specific information for international undergraduate applicants can be found here and information for international counsellors and teachers can be found here .
You can also view detailed information about international qualifications here .
Information for international graduate applicants can be found here .
You can also find contact details for subject-specific admissions teams on the relevant pages for undergraduate courses and graduate courses .
The University of Oxford sets up very few partnerships at an institutional level.
The agreements the University does sign are usually designed to achieve a specific outcome and follow many years of collaboration at an academic-to-academic level.
If you are interested in establishing a subject-specific partnership, please reach out to the relevant department directly.
A list of our departments can be found here .
Undergraduates who would like to complete a study abroad period at Oxford can apply to come as a Visiting Student.
Please see the undergraduate admissions website for more details.
Graduate students can apply for Recognised Student status, which is given to graduate research students who are registered with another university and have been admitted to undertake research for a minimum of one and maximum of three terms.
Please see the graduate admissions website for more information.
The University welcomes applications from academics who are employed at a university overseas for visits of between one month and one year.
If you would like to visit Oxford for less than a month, you also have the option of visiting Oxford’s libraries and attending research seminars as an independent researcher.
Please see here for more information.
Please see the Fees & Funding webpages for detailed information on scholarships available for both undergraduate and postgraduate study.
Please contact the International Student Recruitment team for guidance.
Information on Erasmus+ can be found here and information on the Turing Scheme can be found here .
Please see the University’s Visa & Immigration guidance.
We do not work with student recruitment agencies.
All prospective students should apply to the University of Oxford in the same way, which is detailed on our Admissions webpages .
There is no central internship scheme for international students.
If you are interested in undertaking an internship at Oxford, please contact the department you wish to host you directly.
Support for staff is provided by your department and a range of central services.
The Oxford University Welcome Service for international staff members and their families offers information and support to people who have moved to Oxford from abroad.
If your question has not been addressed above, please contact [email protected] .
Please be aware that we cannot provide guidance on applying to study at Oxford.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/building-our-future/planning-and-consultation:
More than £100 million per year is spent on major building projects and £2 billion will be invested in the estate as a whole over the next decade.
This includes restoration and refurbishment projects as well as new buildings, enabling the University to continue to offer excellent teaching and accommodate world-leading researchers in state-of-the-art facilities.
For all our projects we have a detailed planning procedure which is followed by our project managers, planning consultants, and architects.
The University is also mindful of its responsibility towards the local community and ensures that people are informed and consulted about proposed projects and planning applications.
We organise events that provide opportunities to view proposals, speak to University staff and designers, and give us feedback.
We take this feedback into account before any planning application is submitted.
The University is also a Client Partner of the prestigious Considerate Constructors Scheme.
As a member, the University must abide by the Code of Considerate Practice covering five key areas, including respect for the local community.
View our Planning Procedure

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/building-our-future/community-access:
Oxford's museums include the Ashmolean Museum - the oldest museum in Britain - the History of Science Museum, the Museum of Natural History and the Pitt Rivers Museum.
All four of these offer free admission to their permanent collections.
The Weston Library also hosts a series of free exhibitions throughout the year.
Our publicly accessible green spaces include the University Parks , Wytham Woods , the Botanic Garden and Harcourt Arboretum .
Colleges, which are independent of the central University, frequently open their doors to visitors to see the main quads, chapels and gardens.
The University also participates in the annual Open Doors event when private buildings and spaces across the city open their doors to the public for one weekend.
We are committed to ensuring that new buildings accommodate disabled access needs and that adjustments are made to existing buildings where necessary.
We are also committed to consulting the local community about our renovation and construction work and to improving the way we communicate with local residents, businesses and the owners of public buildings.
Many University buildings are available for hire for meetings, conferences, weddings, and other events.
The Conference Oxford website makes it easy for people to find venues suitable to their requirements.
A number of our cafe outlets are also open to the public, including those at the Ashmolean Museum , the Museum of Natural History , the Weston Library , the Andrew Wiles Building on the Radcliffe Observatory site, and the Biochemistry Building on South Parks Rd.
More information?
Additional information is available on our Visiting Oxford page.
There is also further information about visiting colleges and permanent private halls – many offer free entry.
More information about the University’s broader community engagement strategy and activities can be found on our Community pages .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/building-our-future/environmental:
Environmental sustainability is one of the most important and urgent issues facing society.
Large organisations like ours, with hundreds of buildings and thousands of staff and students, have a significant part to play in facing the global challenges of climate change and biodiversity loss.
Oxford takes this duty seriously and is committed to reaching net zero carbon and biodiversity net gain by 2035.
Our Environmental Sustainability Strategy identifies ten priority areas in which we will take action through a range of programmes and services.
The Environmental Sustainability team is helping the University reach these goals and increase its positive impact on the world around us.
We help departments to reduce their environmental impact through sustainable procurement, waste management schemes, and the efficient use of energy, water, and waste:
The University of Oxford acknowledges the three pillars of sustainability: social, economic and environmental.
The University takes on economic and social sustainability in areas such as access and participation, race equality and closing the gender pay gap.
Our Strategy is focused on environmental sustainability, but the social and economic impacts of implementing it will also be taken into consideration.
Visit the Sustainability website to find out more.
Contact us Telephone: 01865 (6)14893 Email: [email protected]

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/building-our-future/vision:
The University’s buildings and estate are not only necessary for our academic work; they also contribute to Oxford’s reputation as a city of learning, heritage and culture.
They form a vital part of the rich architecture of the city and provide a beautiful environment for visitors and Oxford residents, as well as University staff and students.
The University’s estate, comprising buildings for research, teaching, learning, and administration, has been growing at around 5% a year for the last 15 years.
Today there are around 260 buildings across 13 sites in and around Oxford.
We aim to provide our staff and students with state-of-the-art facilities within an inspiring and historic setting, to improve opportunities for interdisciplinary working, and to minimise our environmental impact.
We invest in the estate to enable new or improved ways of working; this includes the decommissioning and transformation of inappropriate spaces.
How we manage and develop the estate is underpinned by our environmental policies .
To support this investment, we have on average of 80 building and refurbishment projects ongoing at any one time, with an annual expenditure in excess of £100m.
This cost is met through a combination of University funds, Government grants and initiatives, and donations.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/building-our-future/buildings:
Oxford is famous for its historic buildings, which attract millions of tourists every year, and perhaps less well known for the cutting-edge design of our most recent buildings.
Conservation and excellence in design are central to our work, in order to preserve and develop the University’s estate and ensure that we provide world-leading teaching and research facilities for our staff and students.
We own and manage 67 listed buildings, out of a portfolio of around 235 buildings used for teaching, research and administration.
We also own 140 commercial properties including offices and land.
Everything we do is guided by the need to reduce our environmental impact and make best use of space in a very compact city where opportunities to expand are limited.
The oldest building that we own and manage is the 15 th century Duke Humfrey’s Library (the oldest part of the Bodleian Library), which contrasts with one of the most recent – the Blavatnik School of Government.
This section of our website contains more information about our listed buildings, conservation work, and our award winning modern buildings.
There is also a timeline illustrating the history, size and variety of our estate.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/building-our-future/housing-and-innovation:
In June 2019 the Vice-Chancellor announced a major new partnership for the University with Legal & General Group plc, enabling us to move forward with our commitments to address the high cost of accommodation for our staff and students and to develop innovation districts.
Both of these are key objectives of the University’s current five-year Strategic Plan .
Providing good quality, affordable accommodation is vital if we are to continue to attract the world’s best researchers and students.
Importantly, the new housing we plan to build will also relieve pressure on the supply of local housing and bring benefits to the wider Oxford community.
The creation and expansion of our existing innovation districts will mean we can offer enhanced facilities for spin out companies from the University, support our local economy with high-quality jobs, growth and income, and contribute to the national economy.
The University’s science park at Begbroke, five miles from the city centre between Yarnton and Woodstock, has a track record of incubation and growth of successful start-up and spin-out companies.
The University and its joint venture partners are now working to build on this, both by expanding the existing Science Park and, in the longer term, by creating a unique new innovation district in the area around it.
Find out more about the vision for this new community and the progress that’s been made so far.
Professor Louise Richardson, Vice-Chancellor of Oxford University, with Sir John Kingman, Chairman of Legal & General Ian Wallman
Ian Wallman
Through the joint venture, Legal & General (L&G) are providing up to £4 billion of funding to deliver a series of projects with the aim of providing approximately 1,000 subsidised homes for rent by University and college staff, around 1,000 additional units of graduate student accommodation and expansion of our existing innovation facilities.
The partnership means that the University can move forward with a cohesive plan to meet housing and research development needs that will also bring benefits to the city.
The projects will be developed initially by Oxford University Development Limited (OUD), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the joint venture company established by the University and L&G Group.
OUD will design each project in line with the University’s requirements, consult with the local community and statutory authorities, apply for planning permission and manage the construction tender process.
Once planning permission has been granted, the project will be completed by a company wholly-owned by L&G in return for rental income from the site for a defined number of years.
If you have any queries, please contact the University at [email protected] .
Further information for University Staff only .
Contact us Email: [email protected]

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/student-life:
If you study here, you will receive a great education - something which lasts a lifetime.
Beyond that, the extraordinary range of opportunities allows you to determine your student life at Oxford - it really can be what you want it to be.
There is no typical Oxford student, and no single Oxford experience.
At the end of their time here, we want our graduates to have the self-belief to be whoever they want to be, and to feel confident and excited about their future.
Oxford has been voted No.
1 university in the world because the teaching, research and learning resources are exceptional.
There are many different communities for you to choose from at Oxford.
As well as providing support, some are actively pioneering change.
Oxford makes over £10 million of financial support available to undergraduates.
Pick and choose from over 400 clubs and societies to create your own amazing Oxford experience.
Oxford graduates are some of the best paid and their skill-sets make them highly sought after by employers.
The diversity of our students makes Oxford one of the most exciting learning environments anywhere.
Should you apply?
Take our guided audio tour for new and prospective students.
FAQs - Student life and living in Oxford

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/student-life/exceptional-education:
Oxford is a famous university because it offers one of the best educations in the world and has been doing so for a very long time.
We believe a world-class education will expand your choices and enrich your experiences, allowing you to fulfil your potential and make the most of life's opportunities.
Tutorials offer you individual attention from academic experts.
On your doorstep - free access to some of the best learning resources anywhere.
Work alongside some of the world's most famous researchers.
A general summary of how our courses and academic year are structured.
Watch videos in which our academics discuss their research and why this matters.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/student-life/welcoming-and-supportive-community:
Everyone wants to feel that they belong and can be themselves.
Oxford takes the well-being of all of its students very seriously.
Every undergraduate belongs to a college, which means you will have your own close-knit Oxford community.
You will also have lots of opportunities to join groups, societies and campaigns that celebrate diversity and promote change.
Is there really an 'Oxford type'?
In reality our students come from all kinds of backgrounds and from all over the world.
Lots of people will be there to help if you find yourself running out of steam or are in need of some advice.
Your college provides a welcoming and safe environment from the minute you arrive.
In these videos, a few of our students with disabilities talk openly about their experiences at Oxford.
FAQs- Student life and living in Oxford

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/student-life/help-with-the-cost:
Going to university is expensive, but Oxford is committed to ensuring that no one who is offered a place is unable to study here for financial reasons.
Around one in four UK undergraduate students currently receives an annual, non-repayable bursary from Oxford and together our University and its colleges do their best to make sure that financial worries do not affect your time here.
Last year Oxford made over £10 million of financial support available to undergraduates.
Is your family income £32,500 or less?
Life in a college really helps to keep costs down.
FAQs- Fees and funding

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/student-life/do-what-you-love:
One of the many myths about Oxford is that there is no time to have fun.
Alongside your college community you will be able to develop your interests, old or new, through over 400 clubs and societies, many of them University-wide.
Taking part in extra-curricular activities is not only lots of fun and great for your social life but will help you build skills which will stand you in good stead for the rest of your life and help with your career goals.
Find out the extent of your options the week you arrive at Oxford SU's Freshers' Fair.
Become a broadcaster or reporter and enjoy communicating about what interests you through Oxford's own student media.
Do you want to sing, perform, DJ, just listen or do a bit of everything?
You choose.
Whether it's film or theatre which draws you, Oxford's vibrant drama scene offers some amazing opportunities.
If you like to doodle, create, attend art exhibitions or meet other art lovers.
Play for fun, for your college or for University teams - or maybe you just want to keep active.
Do something completely different and have a positive impact on the wider Oxford community.
Speak up for what you believe in and campaign with like-minded students.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/student-life/building-your-future:
Oxford graduates are highly sought after by employers from various sectors.
Studying at Oxford triggers a lifetime of opportunity and you will have a choice of exciting careers or further study options when you finish.
Even whilst studying, you will have lots of opportunities to build your employability skills, get work experience and/or develop entrepreneurial ideas.
Oxford's Careers Service provides expert advice and job opportunities for our graduates.
Do you already have an idea you want to develop?
Find out how Oxford can help make this dream come true.
Around a quarter of Oxford graduates go on to further study after completing their undergraduate degree.
As an Oxford graduate you will become a member of a global network.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/student-life/oxford-you:
Oxford students come from all over the world and from all kinds of backgrounds and this is one of the best things about being a student here.
However, as you would expect from somewhere offering a world-class education, the academic standards are very high and the workload more demanding than at some other universities .
Is Oxford right for you?
Asking yourself the questions below might help you decide.
I think the common denominator that I find at Oxford is the ability to think deeply...
It's the ability to look at anything - whether it's a newspaper article, a piece of research or an object - and instinctively start considering the theory behind it, the potential impacts on a wider level, your own position and thoughts about it, what other people might think...
It's the ability to absolutely refuse to take things at face value.
Hugh
Do you love one of our courses?
Are you on target to meet our admission requirements ?
Do you like the idea of personalised and interactive tutorial teaching?
Do you recognise the following in yourself?
These are some of the qualities our students think are important in Oxford applicants:
If this sounds like you - please apply!
We offer up to 50 fully funded places on our Astrophoria Foundation Year programme.
If you're a UK state school student with high academic potential and have experienced severe personal disadvantage or disruption to your education, you may be eligible to apply.
Find out more about the Astrophoria Foundation Year .
If you're still not sure and would like to know more, then here are a few suggestions:
Whether your disability is seen or unseen, the earlier we know about your particular requirements, the sooner we can begin to meet them.
Please be assured that our admissions decisions are only based on academic merit and potential and the University makes reasonable adjustments to facilitate access.
As a prospective student you may also request pre-application advice and 1:1 meetings at Open Days in the Open Day Information Centr e.
If you are shortlisted for an interview, please make sure you let us know if you would like help with interview arrangements.
If you receive an offer of a place to study here, the Disability Advisory Service (DAS) can provide help to:
Read more about applying to Oxford as a disabled student .
Going to university can be daunting for everyone, and Oxford recognises there are specific issues that are more relevant to care leavers, and works tirelessly to support and mitigate these.
The collegiate system also often means that college can feel like a family.
Bryony
The University of Oxford is committed to supporting students from care experienced backgrounds.
There are around 26,000 students from across the globe at Oxford, with an amazing range of backgrounds and interests, meaning that the only things that Oxford students have in common are academic ability and intellectual curiosity.
Please be assured that we will work with you to make sure you have the support you require, whether you are still considering university, already making your application, or just starting your studies.
When we say care experienced, we mean those who have spent any amount of time in the care of the local authority care, such as through foster care, children’s homes, or a supervision order, or who have spent time in kinship care.
We understand that the experiences and needs of care experienced students vary widely and are highly individual, and you may, therefore, have questions about your own unique circumstances.
Whether you are considering applying to Oxford yourself or supporting a care experienced young person who might be interested, please contact [email protected] for confidential advice and guidance, including assistance in connecting with Oxford colleges or departments or arranging a visit to Oxford.
If you will be 21 or over at the start of your course, then you will automatically be considered a mature student.
I thought the door to Oxford was closed when I put off going to university for 5 years after leaving school, but I found that they were eager to give me an opportunity to re-enter academia, even after my break.
Adam, Philosophy and Theology
Oxford is looking for the best and brightest candidates, irrespective of their age or background.
Coming to university as a mature student can be both exhilarating and challenging.
We understand that you will have a lot to consider when thinking about returning to education, and that your needs and experiences are likely to be different from those of younger students.
In addition to considering how an Oxford degree may contribute to your academic path or career aims, you may need to take into account other personal and professional commitments.
So, whether you have been to university before or not, whether you are looking to improve your employment prospects or pursue an academic interest for its own sake, we have support on offer to help.
Check out our Applying to Oxford for Mature Students page for more information.
Our students come from over 170 countries and we hugely value the benefits which this diversity brings to our academic community.
The application process is exactly the same for you as for all other candidates.
For more detailed information about applying as an international student, please visit our International Students page .
Oxford may accept school-leaving qualifications and scores from your country – if they are equivalent to the attainment of very high grades in three or more British A-levels: otherwise you may need to undertake further study.
All the international qualifications we accept are listed on our international qualifications page .
Teaching at Oxford is all in English (unless specific to a language course) so you will need a high standard of written and spoken English.
You may be required to take an English test to prove your fluency and meet our English Language requirements .
Our Language Centre offers English classes in advanced writing and communications skills.
All interviews are currently held online.
Read more about interview arrangements .
Our Student Immigration team offers immigration and visa advice before you arrive and whilst on course.
Around 20% of our undergraduates are from outside the UK and there are student societies representing most countries in the world.
Our student recruitment team runs events in several countries for international students, their teachers and advisors.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses:
Do you already know what you want to study?
Have you explored all our courses in the subject areas which interest you?
Make sure you really know your options and don’t immediately go for the obvious choice.
The most inspiring course may be something you didn’t know existed!
cultures, film, history, language, linguistics, literature, people...
animals, archaeology, behaviour, biology, conservation, earth, ecology, environment...
archaeology, culture, communication, drama, expression, people, societies...
biochemistry, cells, genetics, health, molecular, neuroscience, pathology, pharmacology...
beliefs, classics, economics, ethics, law, logic, politics, society, religion, theology...
chemistry, climate, manufacturing, engineering, environment, physics, geology, materials...
anthropology, archaeology, arts, civilisations, classics, cultures, history, politics...
economics, engineering, materials, mechanics, physics, programming, statistics...
anthropology, law, culture, demography, development, economics, politics, social science...
Some things to bear in mind when making this important decision.
All about each course, including the core syllabus, options and assessment.
For course specific requirements, see your course page .
Visit the department's website to find out what tutors are looking for in applications for the course you are interested in.
Where, how and by whom will you be taught at Oxford?
How long are the terms?
When will you have exams?
Find out about the structure of an Oxford student's year.
Make sure you know how much your course will cost and about the support available to help you pay for it.
Check which colleges offer the course you are interested in.
Find out more about Oxford's foundation year for talented students who have experienced disadvantage and educational disruption.
FAQs - Courses

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/choosing-what-study:
Choosing the right course is crucial to enjoying your time at university so make sure you really explore your options, even if you think you know what you want to study.
Your degree course will run for three or more years and your workload will feel much lighter if you genuinely love your course.
">Video of Choosing an undergraduate course at Oxford
Having a clear favourite might make this decision seem easy but do still check out the structure and content of the course and consider how these might differ from other universities you are applying to.
Subjects at degree level can be quite different from studying them at school.
Oxford offers a wide range of joint courses which give students the chance to explore different subjects and examine the connections between them.
This will often reveal insights not necessarily found by studying them individually.
There tend to be fewer places on our joint courses but this is not always the case.
A few subjects are only available as part of a joint course, for example Philosophy or Economics.
Don't forget to check out our courses not normally available at school, for example Archaeology and Anthropology , Biochemistry , Human Sciences and Materials Science .
For some they are the perfect opportunity to explore aspects of favourite subjects in an exciting and new way.
For others they are the chance to study something else which fascinates them.
Some of our courses require applicants to achieve certain grades in specific subjects in order to meet the admission requirements.
This is because tutors want to ensure you are sufficiently prepared for the academic demands of a course.
The subjects you choose at A-level (or equivalent) can therefore have an impact on whether you can apply for a specific course.
While we generally recommend that students take those school subjects which they enjoy the most, and where they are most likely to achieve top grades, if there is a particular course you want to apply for you should check our subject requirements to make sure you are eligible.
Some courses, particularly those lasting four years, offer the chance to produce your own research and to work alongside other researchers at the University.
These projects can lead to exciting career or further study opportunities.
Read your course page for more on this.
Most of our degrees are assessed primarily by written examination and dissertation (an extended essay or thesis).
These exams are typically divided between First (known as 'Prelims' or 'Mods') and Final University exams (Finals).
At Oxford your results in your Finals determine your class of degree.
Find out more on our course pages .
Whatever degree course you choose here, you will have a very wide choice of careers and internships .
'The vast majority of jobs do not specify the subject studied at university; all degree courses equip you with a wide range of valuable employability skills.' - Jonathan Black, Oxford Careers Service
Explore our courses in the subject areas which interest you most.
FAQs- Courses

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/admission-requirements:
See our summary table of the requirements for all courses.
Many students apply with A-levels but we also accept equivalent-level qualifications.
You may apply with qualifications from any country where these allow you to meet your course’s requirements.
If you are a non-native English-speaking applicant, check whether you meet our English language requirements.
Does your course require you to register for and sit an admissions test?
Find out now.
Check whether you need to submit essays as part of your Oxford application.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/admission-requirements/uk-qualifications:
In order to take up the offer of a place to study here, all applicants must meet the qualification requirements of their course.
Most students who apply to Oxford are taking A-levels but we also accept other equivalent UK qualifications, and international qualifications .
In some subjects, particularly sciences, candidates are required to have studied certain subjects to at least A-level standard.
If a candidate has studied an alternative course, tutors will require evidence that the course covers the same content as A-level to the appropriate standard.
Please read the specific subject requirements on the individual course pages or in this summary table of admission requirements .
Wherever possible, your grades are considered in the context in which they have been achieved .
The UCAS Search tool now enables applicants to view historic grades on entry for particular undergraduate courses.
We would not advise that UCAS’s entry grades data is used to predict the likelihood of being admitted to Oxford.
Oxford’s admissions processes use a range of evidence about applicant performance and potential, including information from UCAS forms, the personal statement and reference, prior achievement and predicted grades.
Oxford also considers the results of any admissions tests where relevant, and interview performance for those shortlisted.
A very small number of students are admitted to Oxford who don’t meet their offer conditions and this is often as a result of personal exceptional circumstances.
Offers for students studying A-levels range between A*A*A and AAA depending on the course.
If a practical component forms part of any of your science A‐levels used to meet your offer, we expect you to pass it.
Each course page gives details of specific subject and grade requirements.
Providing that any specific subject requirements have been met, all A-levels are approved for admissions purposes, with the exception of:
For the avoidance of doubt, Maths and Further Maths are viewed as separate A-levels.
We are aware that General Studies and Critical Thinking have now been withdrawn.
We are aware that A-levels in England are no longer modular and that the majority of applicants with A-levels will therefore not have UMS marks or unit grades.
If you have taken A-levels in Wales or Northern Ireland, or international A-levels, you can choose to disclose any unit grades you have achieved by the time you are making your application; however, these will not be taken into account during the admissions process.
If you have completed (and cashed in) any standalone AS-levels by the time you are making your application, these can be listed as separate qualifications.
However, conditional offers will be made on the basis of final A-level grades.
We would normally expect that all units that make up your final A-Level grade will have been completed within a two-year period.
Where there are specific requirements for any course – including any requirement for A-levels to be taken together or at particular times – these will be clearly stated in the entrance requirements listed on the relevant course page.
The usual expectation is that candidates will complete the A-levels specified in their applications within a two year period; this should include all units that are part of the final A-level grade.
Where a candidate completes a relevant A-level before they apply, this will be taken into account; however, it is likely that offers will be made on the basis of three A-levels completed in Year 13.
The Maths department and the Computer Science department have each published advice for students wishing to take Maths A-level early.
There are also specific requirements which relate to students applying for Medicine and applicants are recommended to consult the Medical Sciences website for the latest information.
Offers will normally only be made for three A-levels regardless of how many you are taking, though the offer may specify in which three subjects we want the required grades.
Any additional A-levels that you choose to take will be considered, and can help to demonstrate your ability to handle a large workload.
However, we recommend that you think carefully before taking on any additional A-levels as this may reduce the time you have to read around your chosen subject beyond your school or college work.
We advise candidates not to spread themselves too thinly across too many subjects, where they may risk dropping a grade or two in their results.
Our offers are made on the basis of exam grades rather than UCAS Tariff points, so three A*/A grades would be sufficient to meet most conditional offers, but two A*s and two Bs would not.
The University supports the general principles of Age and Stage, whereby students are allowed to progress through their educational development and qualifications at an appropriate rate according to their ability.
However, if students are entered early for examinations, the University would still expect students to achieve at the highest level.
Poor performance could potentially have a negative effect on a future application.
GCSEs will be taken into account when we consider your application but they are just one aspect that we look at.
GCSE results will be considered alongside your personal statement, academic reference, predicted grades and performance in any written work or written test required for your course.
If you are shortlisted, your performance in interviews will also be taken into account.
Higher grades at GCSE can help to make your application more competitive, and successful applicants typically have a high proportion of 7,8 and 9 grades.
However, we do look at GCSE grades in context .
If you feel that you did less well in your GCSEs than you might otherwise have done because of extenuating circumstances, you may still be able to make a competitive application.
Examples would include disruption caused by change of school or system, severe discontinuity of teachers, bereavement, and debilitating illness.
We take care to treat each application individually and would always take such extenuating circumstances into account, if they are brought to our attention.
You may like to mention any such circumstances in your personal statement, and your referee should make sure to mention them clearly in their reference.
If for any reason this is not possible, then we would advise you to contact the college you applied to (or are assigned to if making an open application) once they are likely to have received your application.
This is likely to be around the end of October.
For those who were due to take GCSEs in 2020 and 2021, we will take into account the difficult circumstances in which these grades were issued when we assess your application.
Please follow our advice about personal statements and academic references which we update for each year of entry.
Tutors will want to see how you improve your academic performance after your GCSEs and that you do well in your A-levels or other equivalent qualifications.
We recommend that candidates take those GCSE subjects that they enjoy the most and are confident in achieving good grades in.
Where applicants have undertaken the EPQ, this will not be a condition of any offer but the University recognises that the EPQ will provide an applicant with the opportunity to develop research and academic skills relevant for study at Oxford.
Candidates are encouraged to draw upon relevant EPQ experience when writing their personal statement.
Oxford University will continue to accept the Pre-U as a valid qualification for admissions purposes up to and beyond its withdrawal by Cambridge Assessment International Examinations*.
Conditional offers are likely, as now, to vary between D2, D2, D3 and D3, D3, D3 depending on the subject.
Each course page will detail the requirements necessary.
For admission purposes D2 is considered to be equivalent to an A* grade at A-level and D3 to an A grade.
Students may also take Pre-U principal subjects in place of A-levels.
*June 2022 was the final examination for Latin, Classical Greek, Psychology, Russian and Italian.
All other Cambridge Pre-U subjects had a final examination in June 2023 with retakes in June 2024.
We welcome the valuable skills developed by students studying within the Curriculum for Excellence and would usually expect AAAAB or AAAAA in Scottish Highers, supplemented by two or more Advanced Highers.
Conditional offers will usually be for AAB if a student is able to take three Advanced Highers; where this is not possible then a student would be expected to achieve AA in two Advanced Highers, as well as an A grade in an additional Higher course taken in Year 6.
Oxford University welcomes Young Applicants in Schools Scheme (YASS) modules as extra qualifications that applicants may study to develop their knowledge of a particular subject, or to try something new.
These YASS modules are offered by the Open University in Scotland, and students may find them useful in preparing for university study.
Students who take these modules may wish to refer to them in their personal statements, to discuss what they have gained from this extra study.
However, as most students who are taking YASS modules are also studying for Advanced Highers or Scottish Highers (or other equivalent qualifications), offers will usually be made on the basis of those qualifications alone.
The University is aware that framework for the Advanced Welsh Baccalaureate has now been withdrawn, but that students are still able to take the Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate as a standalone qualification.
The University recognises that this qualification will provide students with the opportunity to develop research and academic skills relevant for study at Oxford, particularly through the independent research project, and applicants are encouraged to draw upon their experiences when writing the personal statement.
However, the Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate will not form the basis of any offers, and conditional offers are likely to range between A*A*A and AAA at A-level, depending on the course.
Students with the International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma are our second largest group of applicants and students, after those with A-levels, and we welcome applicants with this qualification.
We would expect students to achieve a total score of 38, 39 or 40 points, depending on the course, including core points, with 6s and 7s in the higher-level subjects.
Each course page gives details of the specific requirements.
IB students are able to choose from:
All Oxford courses that state that they require Maths accept both courses at HL, apart from Chemistry, which requires applicants to have taken either of the courses at HL, or the Analysis and Approaches course at SL, depending on what other subjects they are taking; please see the Chemistry course page for further information.
If courses state that they recommend Maths, either course will be acceptable.
The University does not accept the IB Career-related Programme.
Candidates with vocational or technical qualifications equivalent to A-levels are welcome to apply, although candidates may need to take additional academic qualifications to make a competitive application.
If you would like to discuss whether your qualification is suitable for entry to Oxford University, please contact the subject department that you'd like to apply to for further information.
T-Levels are not considered appropriate preparation for courses at Oxford and are therefore not accepted for entry.
Candidates with a mix of qualifications should contact the department or faculty for the course they are interested in applying for.
Because of the academic nature of the undergraduate courses at Oxford, most Applied General qualifications (such as BTECs, Cambridge Technical Diplomas or UAL Diplomas) are unlikely to be suitable for making a competitive application by themselves, though they could be considered if taken alongside A-Levels, depending on the course applied for.
Examples of the requirements of some courses that accept Applied General qualifications can be found on this page.
When considering applications, tutors would want to see evidence of learning and assessment that would provide the skills and knowledge the candidate would need for the course they are applying for.
Candidates are therefore advised to include in their UCAS personal statement information on how their qualification has prepared them for the course they are applying to.
A D grade (distinction) in an Applied General qualification would be considered equivalent to an A at A-level, and a D* in a BTEC National would be considered equivalent to an A* at A-level.
Applicants interested in applying for Fine Art who are studying for a BTEC National Extended Diploma will be required to achieve DDD grades.
As the Fine Art degree also includes a substantial history and theory component, BTEC applicants will be expected to have successfully completed a range of modules that include art history.
Please visit the Medical Sciences website for details.
BTEC National Extended Diploma with grades D*D*D or BTEC National Foundation Diploma with Grade D* and A-level grades A*A in Maths and Physics
Please visit the Computer Science website for the latest information on our standard offers for students taking BTECs .
Competition is very strong for places at Oxford.
Although a foundation year course may be accepted in certain circumstances, we recommend taking different qualifications in order to make the strongest application.
This is especially true if your chosen course has specific subject requirements.
You can check these requirements on the course page .
For a foundation year course to be accepted, you would need to make sure that the course covers the same content as any required A-levels to the appropriate standard.
If it does not, you will need to take alternative qualifications.
If you would like further advice regarding your particular circumstances, please contact the relevant department.
Contact details can be found on the course pages .
The University of Oxford offers Foundation Certificates in English Literature, and History, through its Department for Continuing Education.
Students on these courses can apply to study a complete degree at any university, including here at Oxford University.
If students do apply here to Oxford, they may apply for direct entry to year two of the relevant undergraduate course.
Visit the Continuing Education Department website for further details, or email [email protected] .
An Art Foundation course is not a prerequisite for applying to study Fine Art at Oxford, but is highly recommended as a good preparation for taking Fine Art at degree level as it enables candidates to prepare a comprehensive portfolio of work which is a requirement for the admissions process.
Most successful applicants to Oxford have completed an Art Foundation course.
Foundation degrees are usually two years of full-time study and would be acceptable in lieu of A-levels, provided that the degree covered the same content as any A-levels which are specifically required.
Some Access courses allow students to take one or two A-levels as part of the course.
This option is strongly recommended for students who wish to apply to Oxford, especially for those courses which have specific subject requirements.
You can check the requirements on our course pages and in this summary table .
Conditional offers are likely to be for completion of the Access to HE diploma with all the level 3 credits at Distinction, and A or A* grades in any A-levels taken.
If you would like to discuss whether to use your Access course for entry to Oxford University, please contact the subject department that you’d like to apply to for further information.
Contact details are on the course pages .
Open University courses are usually studied by distance learning, with course work and examination elements.
Students are awarded points according to the content of each course, and the points may count towards different qualifications from diplomas to complete degrees.
A full degree would usually require 360 points: 120 at stage 1 (equivalent to the first year of a degree at a conventional university), 120 at stage 2 and 120 at stage 3.
To apply to Oxford, students would need to have completed, or be studying for, at least 120 points at stage 1 or above, in appropriate subjects.
We would expect students to be performing at the highest level, with at least pass grade 2.
We are aware that students, particularly mature students , may hold qualifications which are no longer available or where grading systems have changed.
These qualifications will be assessed on a case by case basis by the college considering your application.
Please refer to our Second Undergraduate Degree webpage.
You may be able to apply for Senior Status which would mean you can start directly in the second year of the degree.
You should also note that your eligibility for government support or loans will be affected by any study you have already undertaken.
Oxford University does not accept transfer students.
If you wish to follow an undergraduate course here, then you would need to start the course from the beginning.
However, this option is not available if you are currently enrolled on a Medicine course elsewhere and wish to apply to study Medicine at Oxford.
If you are currently studying at a UK university and are thinking of applying to Oxford to start the first year of an undergraduate course, please note that normally we will only consider such applications in exceptional circumstances and you should make very clear in your application why you do not wish to continue on your current course.
Please note we are not able to give examples of these exceptional circumstances as applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
If you do decide to apply whilst at another university and you do not have A-level or equivalent qualifications at the grades required for the standard offer for the course you are interested in applying for, you will need to demonstrate how your subsequent study has prepared you for studying at Oxford, including any evidence of your performance on your current course, as well as a reference from your current tutor or equivalent.
Please note that you must declare on your UCAS form whether you are currently studying at another university, and that failure to do so could result in Oxford withdrawing any offer made to you.
Please also remember that not only will you incur a year of additional costs but your eligibility for government support or loans may be affected by any study you have already undertaken, whether or not you have completed your course.
Professional qualifications will be taken in to account as part of an application, particularly where these provide evidence of recent academic study.
Applicants who are applying with HND or HNC qualifications will only be considered for entry to the first year of an Oxford degree.
Candidates should ensure that their reference is given by a tutor from the HND or HNC course, and that they provide details of all their modules and grades in the UCAS application.
The University will expect a candidate to be achieving at the Distinction level (grade A in Scotland).
We recognise that some schools feel their students’ needs are best fulfilled by alternatives to GCSEs, and the school is best placed to assess what is in the interest of their students.
At Oxford we are accustomed to considering applications with a range of qualifications, alongside other additional evidence to assess academic potential including admissions tests and interviews.
None of our courses have a specific GCSE requirement; however, there are some parts of our admissions process that use GCSE grades to contextualise applicants’ performance, and we are not able to use other Level 2 qualifications (or equivalent) to replicate those measures for students not taking GCSEs.
Find out more about our use of contextual data .
Please contact us if your qualification is not listed here.
FAQs - UK qualifications for admission

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/applying-to-oxford/for-international-students/international-qualifications:
Many students who apply to Oxford are taking A-levels but we also accept a whole range of other equivalent UK and international qualifications.
If you are an international student wanting to apply to Oxford, you need to have achieved - or be expected to achieve - one of the qualifications listed on this page.
There are also specific subject requirements for some courses, particularly in the sciences, so please check the requirements for your course .
Please do not submit any transcripts or certificates with your application to Oxford, and if you have US qualifications, do not send any scores via the College Board.
You will only need to produce certificates or transcripts if you are offered a place here.
You should self-report all details of your qualifications, standardised test scores, and grades on the UCAS application form under ‘Education’.
Please visit the UCAS application section of our Guide for applicants for further details.
It is however very important that the teacher writing your reference gives predicted grades for the exams that you are yet to take.
Your referee can find advice on our teachers’ pages .
If your qualification is not accepted, then you will need to undertake further study if you wish to apply.
You can take any of the qualifications which are listed as acceptable on this page as well as our accepted UK qualifications .
Taking one of these accepted qualifications will help you make the most competitive application, rather than seeking to qualify through attending the first year of university elsewhere.
If you cannot find your country on this list or the status is marked as 'not accepted' then this means the school-leaving qualifications from your country do not currently meet Oxford’s admissions requirements.
We monitor international qualifications and check that the requirements outlined below remain equivalent to our standard A-level/IB requirements.
If you have a query regarding a qualification not listed here, you are welcome to contact us.
If you are currently studying at a university outside the UK and are thinking of applying to Oxford to start the first year of an undergraduate course, you should make very clear in your application why you do not wish to continue on your current course.
This is important as we only consider such applications where there are strong reasons for moving university after the first year.
Please note we are not able to give examples of these reasons as applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
If you do decide to apply whilst at another university and you do not have A-level or equivalent qualifications at the grades required for the standard offer for the course you are interested in applying for, you will need to demonstrate how your subsequent study has prepared you for studying at Oxford, including any evidence of your performance on your current course and a reference from your current tutor or equivalent.
You may be able to apply for Senior Status, which would mean you can start directly in the second year of the degree.
Because of the academic nature of the undergraduate courses at Oxford, vocational and technical qualifications may not provide the most suitable preparation.
Candidates with vocational or technical qualifications are welcome to apply, although it may be necessary to take additional academic qualifications to make a competitive application.
If you would like to discuss whether your application is suitable for entry to Oxford University, please contact the subject department that you'd like to apply to for further information.
A total score of 38, 39 or 40 points (depending on the course) including core points, with 6s and 7s in subjects taken at the Higher level.
Please visit the individual course pages for details.
IB Maths
IB students can choose from:
All Oxford courses that state that they require Mathematics will accept both courses at HL, apart from Chemistry, which will require applicants to have taken either of the courses at Higher Level, or the Analysis and Approaches course at SL, depending on what other subjects they are taking.
Please visit the Chemistry course page for further information.
If courses state that they recommend Mathematics, either course will be acceptable.
IB Career-related Programme
An average of 85% or above, with scores of between 8 and 9 in subjects specified at A-level or equivalent.
Visit your course page or our admission requirements table for further information about specified subjects.
International A-levels (offered by Cambridge Assessment International Education, Pearson Edexcel and Oxford AQA) are recognised as equivalent to UK GCE A-levels on a grade-for-grade basis.
The University does not accept the Cambridge Assessment International Education A-levels in either Global Perspectives or Research and Thinking Skills.
Where applicants have undertaken the OxfordAQA International Project Qualification (IPQ), this will not be a condition of any offer but the University recognises that the IPQ will provide an applicant with the opportunity to develop research and academic skills relevant for study at Oxford.
Candidates are encouraged to draw upon relevant IPQ experience when writing their personal statement.
The University does not accept MOOCs as qualifications on which to base an application, as the majority of MOOCs are not accredited.
However, MOOCs can be used as part of a candidate’s wider learning and discussed in their personal statement, if relevant to the proposed course of study.
Qualification
For courses with an offer of A*A*A An ATAR of 99.00 plus completion of the relevant Year 12/High school certificate.
You should ensure that you have taken all subjects required for the course you are applying for.
For courses with an offer of A*AA An ATAR of 98.50 plus completion of the relevant Year 12/High school certificate.
For courses with an offer of AAA An ATAR of 98.00 plus completion of the relevant Year 12/High school certificate.
For all offers If an A* or A is required in a particular subject, you will need to achieve the following grades in that subject: Australian Capital Territory A-level Grade A* = Grade A A-level Grade A = Grade A New South Wales A-level Grade A* = Grade 6 A-level Grade A = Grade 5 Northern Territory A-level Grade A* = A or above A-level Grade A = A- or above Queensland A-level Grade A* = A or above A-level Grade A = A or above South Australia A-level Grade A* = A or above A-level Grade A = A- or above Tasmania A-level Grade A* = EA A-level Grade A = HA Victoria A-level Grade A* = A+ A-level Grade A = A Western Australia A-level Grade A* = A A-level Grade A = A
Please note that students in the Australian school system can only make an application to Oxford in their final year of school, as the conditions of any offer of a place must be met by August/September within the application cycle they have made a submission in.
From the 2024-entry admissions round onwards:
For courses requiring A*A*A: • Diploma za Sredno Obrazovanie with an overall average score of 5.8 • Any subjects essential for the course you are applying for should be taken as a state matriculation exam if available • You should achieve 6.0 in at least two subjects, including at least one state matriculation exam • You should achieve 6.0 in any subjects for which an A* is required at A-level, and at least 5.8 in any subjects for which an A is required at A-level
For courses requiring A*AA: • Diploma za Sredno Obrazovanie with an overall average score of 5.75 • Any subjects essential for the course you are applying for should be taken as a state matriculation exam if available • You should achieve 6.0 in at least two subjects, including at least one state matriculation exam • You should achieve 6.0 in any subjects for which an A* is required at A-level, and at least 5.8 in any subjects for which an A is required at A-level
For courses requiring AAA: • Diploma za Sredno Obrazovanie with an overall average score of 5.7 • Any subjects essential for the course you are applying for should be taken as a state matriculation exam if available • You should achieve 6.0 in at least two subjects, including at least one state matriculation exam • You should achieve at least 5.8 in any subjects for which an A is required at A-level
If the course you are applying for requires more than one subject and you are only able to take one as a state matriculation exam, please contact the relevant department or faculty for guidance.
We understand that many Canadian students may take the International Baccalaureate, or tests (SATs and APs) from the American education system alongside their Canadian qualifications.
Any of these qualifications may be sufficient to make a competitive application to Oxford, but please note that candidates do need to state all their qualifications (test scores) when they complete their UCAS application.
Offers will be made on the basis of one qualification type, and for applicants taking more than one qualification it will be at the college’s discretion to determine which to use for the final offer.
Alberta High School Diploma
If an A* is required, candidates should achieve a minimum 93%.
If an A is required, candidates should achieve a minimum 90%.
If a course requires Mathematics, candidates should be taking Mathematics 31.
British Columbia Certificate of Graduation (Dogwood Diploma)
If a course requires Mathematics, candidates should be taking Calculus 12.
Manitoba High School Diploma
If a course requires Mathematics, candidates should be taking Advanced Mathematics and Calculus (45S).
New Brunswick High School Diploma
If a course requires Mathematics, candidates should be taking Calculus 120.
Newfoundland and Labrador High School Graduation Diploma
If a course requires Mathematics, candidates should be taking Mathematics 3208
Northwest Territories High School Diploma
Nova Scotia High School Graduation Diploma
Nunavut Secondary School Graduation Diploma
Ontario Secondary School Diploma
If a course requires Mathematics, candidates should be taking Calculus and Vectors MCV4U.
Prince Edward Island High School Graduation Diploma
If a course requires Mathematics, candidates should be taking Advanced Mathematics and Calculus (MAT611B).
Quebec Diplôme d'études collégiales (DEC)
If a course requires Mathematics, candidates should be taking Calculus I or Integrated Calculus.
Saskatchewan Transcript of Secondary Level Achievement
If a course requires Mathematics, candidates should be taking Calculus 30.
Yukon Graduation Diploma
For courses requiring A * AA and above: Matura with the Maturalna Svjedodzba (matriculation certificate), with an average overall score of 5, including 5 in at least four subjects, including any subject required by the course you are applying for.
For courses requiring AAA: Matura with the Maturalna Svjedodzba (matriculation certificate), with an average overall score of 5, including 5 in at least three subjects, including any subject required by the course you are applying for.
All courses should be taken at Advanced Level.
Successful completion of the Ylioppilastutkintotodistus/ Studentexamensbetyg with at least four subjects.
No individual subject score should be below eximia cum laude approbatur (excellent) and at least two subjects are at laudatur (outstanding), including any subjects required by the course you are applying for.
Students are required to achieve the grades required to attain their qualification in a single sitting, unless there is a compelling reason why this is not possible.
For courses requiring A*A*A: Diplôme du Baccalauréat General with an overall score of at least 16.5.
Students taking the Baccalauréat Français International (BFI) should achieve an overall score of at least 15.
Any subjects required by the course you are applying for should be chosen as specialised subjects, achieved with at least 15 if a Grade A is required, and at least 16 if Grade A* is required.
For courses requiring A*AA: Diplôme du Baccalauréat General with an overall score of at least 16.
Students taking the Baccalauréat Français International (BFI) should achieve an overall score of at least 14.
For courses requiring AAA: Diplôme du Baccalauréat General with an overall score of at least 15.
Any subjects required by the course you are applying for should be chosen as specialised subjects, achieved with a score of at least 15.
Abitur, with the following grades:
For courses requiring A*A*A:
For courses requiring A*AA:
For courses requiring AAA:
Plus
HKDSE, with the following grades:
For courses requiring A*A*A: Chemistry and Engineering: • Grade 5 in Core Maths and Core English • Grades 5*5*5 in three electives from Category A (or grade A in any electives taken from Category C), with grade 5* in subjects required for the course you are applying for.
• Students taking a Maths extension paper may count it as one of their electives.
Maths/Maths and Statistics/Maths and Philosophy: • Grade 5 in Core Maths and Core English • Grade 5* in one Maths extension paper and grades 5*5 in two other electives from category A (or grade A in any electives taken from Category C)
For courses requiring A*AA: • Grade 5 in Core Maths and Core English • Grades 5*55 in three electives from Category A (or grade A in any electives taken from Category C), including any subjects required for the course you are applying to.
• Students should check the relevant course page for specific subject and grade requirements: if A* is required, students will need to achieve 5* in that subject.
For courses requiring AAA: • Grade 4 in Core Maths and grade 5 in Core English • Grades 5 or A in three electives from Category A or C, including any subjects required for the course you are applying to.
Erettsegi/Matura.
You need to take five subjects and achieve a score of five in at least four subjects.
Where there is a required subject for the degree course you would be expected to take the Higher (emelt szintu) examination in this subject.
Year XII qualification, studied with either the CBSE (All-India SSC) or CISCE (ISC) boards, with the following grades:
For courses requiring A * A * A:
For the CBSE board, we are aware that students will not know their grades at the point when they are applying.
• For CBSE board: Grades A1 A1 A1 A1 A2, with grade A1 in any subjects relevant to the course applied for.
• For CISCE board: Overall grade of at least 90%, with 95% or above in four subjects (including any relevant to the course applied for) and 85% or above in the fifth subject.
For courses requiring A * AA:
• For CBSE board: Grades A1 A1 A1 A2 A2, with grade A1 in any subjects relevant to the course applied for.
• For CISCE board: Overall grade of 90% or more, with grades of at least 95% or above in three subjects (including any relevant to the course applied for) and 85% or above in the other two subjects.
• For CBSE board: Grades A1 A1 A2 A2 A2, with grade A1 in any subjects relevant to the course applied for.
• For CISCE board: Overall grade of 90% or more, with grades of at least 95% or above in two subjects (including any relevant to the course applied for) and 85% or above in the other three subjects.
Irish Leaving Certificate:
Overall score of 100%.
You should ensure that you are taking any subjects required for the course you are applying for, achieved with the following scores:
A*: equivalent to 20/20 in written exam or 10/10 in final year of school A: equivalent to 19/20 in written exam or 9/10 in final year of school
Overall score of 98%
Overall score of 95%
A: equivalent to 19/20 in written exam or 9/10 in final year of school
Sijil Tinggi Persekolahan Malaysia (Malaysian Higher School Certificate) with AAA
Students taking the Option Internationale du Baccalauréat should achieve an overall score of at least 15.
In both cases, any subjects required by the course you are applying for should be chosen as specialised subjects, achieved with at least 15 if a Grade A is required, and at least 16 if Grade A* is required.
Students taking the Option Internationale du Baccalauréat should achieve an overall score of at least 14.
In both cases, any subjects required by the course you are applying for should be chosen as specialised subjects, achieved with at least 15 if a Grade A is required.
For courses requiring A*A*A :
Diploma Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO) with an overall grade of 8.0 or more with a grade 9 in at least one subject, and a grade 8 or above in all of the specialised subjects (both compulsory and optional) for your subject stream.
For courses requiring A*AA :
Diploma Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO) with an overall grade of 8 or more with a grade 8 or above in all of the specialised subjects (both compulsory and optional) for your subject stream.
For courses requiring AAA :
Diploma Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO) with an overall grade of 8 or more including grade 8 in any subjects required by the course you are applying to.
Vitnemål fra den Videregående opplæring with the following grades:
For courses requiring A*A*A at A-Level:
Average of 5.2 for Common Core subjects (excluding PE), including 6.0 in Mathematics and Natural Sciences (Common Core subjects) plus 6.0 in two Specialised Programme subjects Students should ensure they have taken the Natural Sciences and Mathematics specialised programme.
For courses requiring A*AA at A-Level:
Average of 5.2 for Common Core subjects (excluding PE), including 6.0 in at least one subject.
This should be Mathematics (Common Core) if that subject is required for the course you are applying for plus 5.0 and 6.0 in two Specialised Programme subjects Students applying for courses in the MPLS division should ensure they have taken the Natural Sciences and Mathematics specialised programme.
Average of 5.0 for Common Core subjects (excluding PE) plus 5.0 in two Specialised Programme subjects It is recommended that students take the Languages, Social Sciences and Economics specialised programme.
Singapore-Cambridge GCE A-Levels
For all courses:
Where applicants have undertaken H3 courses, these will not be a condition of any offer and cannot be used to fulfil offer conditions.
However, the University recognises that H3 courses will provide candidates with the opportunity to develop research and academic skills relevant for study at Oxford.
Candidates are encouraged to draw upon relevant H3 experience when writing their personal statement.
National University of Singapore (NUS) High School Diploma in Maths and Science
For courses with an offer of A*A*A:
For courses with an offer of A*AA:
For courses with an offer of AAA:
The Singapore Polytechnic Diploma may be accepted on a case-by-case basis.
Students planning to apply to Oxford with this qualification are advised to contact the relevant department or faculty for further information.
Qualifications
Título de Bachiller, with the following grades:
Gymnasieexamen / Högskoleförberedande examen (Higher education preparatory diploma), with the following grades:
2500 points with overall average score of 19.25 or above on either the Natural Science or Technology Programme, with grade A (20.00) in the following:
Additional points awarded to students taking Mathematics and/or Modern Languages will not count towards meeting your offer.
2500 points with overall average score of 19.00 or above on a Programme related to your choice of course at Oxford, with Grade A (20.00) in the following:
2500 points with overall score of 18.00 or above on a Programme related to your choice of course at Oxford, with Grade A (20.00) in the following:
Applicants are reminded to include all grades in your application, including both original and retake grades if applicable.
While the University will consider applications with retake grades, any such application is likely to be less competitive than those without retakes.
If there were extenuating circumstances in relation to any retakes these should be explained in your UCAS statement.
One of the following federally-recognised Matura certificates:
With the following grades, depending on the course applied for:
Fachmaturität/Maturité spécalisée/Attesto di maturità specializzata, with or without the Passerelle
Advanced Placement (AP) qualifications, with the following grades:
Either Four APs at grade 5 (including any subjects required for the course you are applying to)
OR
Three APs at grade 5 (including any subjects required for the course you are applying to) plus a score of 33 or above in the ACT or 1480 or above (out of 1600) in the SAT.
We do not require the optional essay for either the ACT or the SAT.
Please note that Calculus AB and Calculus BC cannot be counted as two separate subjects for the purposes of meeting your offer, whether taken as separate tests or by receiving the AB sub-score when taking Calculus BC.
If you are applying for a course that requires Mathematics you should take Calculus BC if you are able to do so.
However, courses will accept Calculus AB if you are unable to take Calculus BC.
AP Pre-Calculus may not be used to fulfil the mathematics requirement for courses specifying this in their offer, but may be used to meet the one of the four (or three) grade 5s required to meet the offer for other courses.
The following combinations of Physics courses can be counted as two separate qualifications for the purposes of meeting your offer:
If you are taking both Physics C courses, or both Physics 1 and Physics 2, you will not be able to count any additional Physics courses towards your offer requirements.
In addition, only the specified combinations of Physics 1/2 and Physics C are permitted.
Three APs at grade 5 (including any subjects required for the course you are applying to) plus a score of 32 or above in the ACT or 1470 or above (out of 1600) in the SAT.
Three APs at grade 5 (including any subjects required for the course you are applying to) plus a score of 31 or above in the ACT or 1460 or above (out of 1600) in the SAT.
Superscoring
Please note that to meet the requirements of an offer to the University, your SAT Total Score for the SAT Evidence-based Reading and Writing, and SAT Math sections must be from the same session; we will not consider scores from multiple sessions ('superscoring').
This also applies to scores for the ACT, so we will only consider the ‘Highest Full Battery’ score, and not the ACT Superscore.
Candidates are asked to enter all their scores for any tests taken when they complete their UCAS application, showing the relevant dates for each.
This gives tutors a complete picture of a candidate's academic record, rather than just the ‘superscore’ of best results for the different sections of any test taken on multiple occasions.
Candidates are also asked to include any pending test scores on the UCAS application: that is, details of any test they intend to take up until the end of Senior Year.
Again, this is to give tutors a complete picture of the candidates’ academic record, including studies which are still in progress.
AP Capstone Programme Where applicants have undertaken the additional AP qualifications making up the AP Capstone Diploma (AP Seminar and AP Research) these will not be a condition of any offer.
However, the University recognises that they may provide an applicant with the opportunity to develop research and academic skills relevant for higher education.
Where relevant, candidates may draw upon relevant subject understanding and interest explored via the AP Capstone Diploma when writing their personal statement.
Score cancellation/withdrawal
We are aware that students taking APs can apply to College Board to have their scores cancelled or withdrawn.
However, it is a requirement of the UCAS application process for students to declare all results, including any that have been cancelled or withdrawn, so that tutors are able to consider students' full educational profile.
Failure to declare all qualifications could result in Oxford withdrawing any offer made to you.
Associate degrees College Level Examination Programs (CLEPs) GED (General Education Development) Dual enrolment
Zimbabwe General Certificate of Education at Advanced Level
For all degree courses, three GCSE A-levels at Principal level with grades AAA, including any specific subjects required by the course you are applying for.
Guidance for international students
FAQs - International qualifications for admission

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/about-your-studies:
Term-time teaching on our undergraduate courses normally takes place in central Oxford, usually in buildings belonging to your college or department though sometimes in other venues.
Some courses also have field trips or other activities away from Oxford, as explained in the course descriptions.
Visit the Medicine course page for information about teaching locations for Medicine.
Unless doing a language degree, it is unusual to study out of Oxford during term time as we want all our students to benefit from the University's teaching expertise and resources.
Most tutorials, classes, and lectures are delivered by staff who are tutors in their subject.
Many are world-leading experts with years of experience in teaching and research.
Some teaching may also be delivered by postgraduate students who are usually studying at doctoral level.
Read about the exceptional education you will receive at Oxford.
Visit our Academic Year page for information about the structure of our teaching year, term dates, vacation dates, typical workload and exams.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/academic-year:
Each academic year at Oxford University is divided into three terms:
Most teaching and learning takes places in the eight weeks of each term known as ‘full term’.
These weeks are numbered: 1st week, 2nd week, etc.
View dates of term .
You will normally receive details of your lectures, classes, tutorials and any other requirements at the start of each term.
New students are known as ‘freshers’.
There is a ‘freshers’ week’ immediately before the start of Michaelmas term to help new students settle in, so you will probably be required to arrive in Oxford at the beginning of October or end of September in your first year.
The exact date you will need to arrive may vary slightly between colleges.
Students may also be required to arrive in Oxford a few days before the start of each subsequent ‘full term’ for any college exams.
You may sometimes be required to stay in Oxford for a few days after the end of full term, into 9th week, to complete any outstanding work or attend classes or tutorials.
Some students choose to stay in Oxford in 9th and 10th weeks of Michaelmas term (in December) to help with interviews in their college.
Some students also stay in Oxford until 10th week in Trinity term (usually June/July) to help with University Open Days.
Some courses have extended terms where students will be required to be in Oxford for longer periods, usually in the later years of the course.
These are explained in the course descriptions.
Some courses have optional papers which would require you to submit work by 10th or 11th weeks of Hilary term (usually March/April).
Some students choose to stay in Oxford until this deadline.
The University’s expectation is that undergraduate students treat academic study as a full-time commitment during full term.
This entails approximately 40 hours per week typically being spent on focussed, concentrated academic work.
Students should seek advice from their tutors if they find it impossible to meet their academic obligations without spending significantly longer than 48 hours per week on academic study on a regular basis.
The three holidays between the three terms are known as vacations: the Christmas vacation, the Easter vacation and the long summer vacation.
Students are usually required to leave college accommodation during these vacations, so many students return home or travel, and may undertake paid employment.
It is expected that students will use some of this time to consolidate learning from the last term and to read around their subject.
You may also need to undertake pre-reading or work in preparation for the next term, or to revise for examinations.
Most Oxford courses are assessed by examinations at the end of the first and last years.
First year examinations are often called Prelims or Moderations, and you need to pass these exams to progress to the second year.
You must pass your final year exams, or ‘finals’, to pass your degree.
Finals also determine the classification of your degree.
For some courses you may also be assessed on your practical work, or you may be required to submit a dissertation.
Please check the assessment details for your course.
Colleges may also set their own examinations, known as ‘collections’, at the start of each term.
These exams are to check that you are progressing satisfactorily through the course.
They do not count towards your final degree.
One of the benefits of studying at Oxford is that you will receive highly personalised feedback and support from your tutors each week during your tutorials .
You would usually also receive feedback on your college examinations within four weeks.
You can check our course pages for specific information relating to your degree subject, including a typical weekly timetable, example modules and how these are assessed.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/department-virtual-tours:
These 360° views cover facilities such as the library, seminar rooms, lecture theatres, as well as an example of a social areas, and the entrance.
Archaeology & Anthropology
Earth Science
Economics & Management
English
Law
Materials
Medicine (see: Biomedical Sciences)
Politics (PPE)
Statistics
Theology

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/colleges/a-z-of-colleges:
Oxford University is made up of more than 30 different colleges.
Colleges are academic communities, where students usually have their tutorials.
Each one has its own dining hall, bar, common room and library, and lots of college groups and societies.
All undergraduate students at Oxford become members of a particular college, and of the whole University.
Colleges do not specialise in particular subjects as most colleges offer most courses and excel in all the subjects that they teach.
(Visit ' Which Oxford colleges offer my course?
')
Your lectures, assessment, and any practical work will be organised by the academic department(s) who run your course.
Your college will organise your tutorials and provide you with accommodation and other facilities.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/colleges/what-are-oxford-colleges:
Our University has no central campus but is made up of over 30 colleges and halls spread across the city centre and beyond.
These colleges are at the heart of Oxford's reputation as one of the best universities in the world and make it a very special place to study and live.
Every student belongs to a college as well as being a member of their course department and the University.
This means all Oxford students have the benefits of belonging to both a large, world-class university and to a small and friendly academic community.
Colleges provide a safe and supportive environment so you can focus on your studies, enjoy time with friends and make the most of all the opportunities on offer.
Undergraduates live in college accommodation in their first and usually last year - some people live in for the duration of their course.
Students mix freely across colleges and you are welcome to have friends over or invite them to some college events.
Inter-college sport and drama can be a fun way to meet people from other colleges.
You will also meet other people not at your college in your course department and at University-wide events.
If you come here, you are likely to spend lots of time in your college, particularly in your first year.
">Video of Oxford Colleges  –  what exactly are they?
Read the video transcript .
The friendly family atmosphere that you get with such a close-knit community is almost like a second family and makes you feel at home.
Jack
Most tutorial teaching takes place in colleges with academic tutors who usually teach as well as do their own research.
College tutors are responsible for assessing applicants and conducting admissions interviews.
They decide who comes to their college and who they will teach.
Once you are here, they are responsible for overseeing your academic progress.
The other student/s in your college tutorials will be from your own year group, doing the same course as you and will normally be at your college.
Read more on personalised learning in our section on Student Life.
Each college is unique, but generally their facilities are pretty similar.
Each one, large or small will have the following essential facilities:
Visit the college pages to view the facilities at each and read more about student accommodation in Oxford.
Much college socialising revolves around the Junior Common Room, or JCR.
Every college has a JCR room where you can meet friends, play games, get a cup of coffee and watch TV.
Confusingly, JCR also collectively refers to all the undergraduate students in a college.
Elected students form the ‘JCR’ committee which organises lots of events and campaigns on behalf of the students in their college.
College academic tutors support your academic development but you can also ask their advice on other things.
Lots of other college staff including welfare officers help students settle in and are available to offer help on practical or health matters.
Participating in your college's clubs and societies is a great way to relax and spend time with friends.
Read more on support and welfare .
Read more about how colleges help to bring down the cost of studying here.
There is a map on every college page so you can see exactly where each one is.
A few colleges are slightly further from the centre.
Typically they are some of the largest and feel spacious.
They often have beautiful and peaceful gardens, sometimes running alongside the river.
All are within easy distance of the city centre and main University buildings such as the Bodleian Libraries.
They may also be conveniently near privately rented student accommodation.
You can specify a college preference on your UCAS application but you can also make an open application.
To help you decide, read our advice on choosing a college or making an open application .
'The friendly family atmosphere that you get with such close-knit community is almost like a second family and makes you feel at home.' Jack
'I love the family feel of the college.
It’s not too big but not too small.
I know everyone in every year and we are all genuinely friends.' Anna
'The staff and porters are lovely!' Michael
'My college has a reputation for being ‘small and friendly’, and one of my favourite things about it is that it’s actually true!
I love how we are a little family, and whenever you enter the library or walk through the quad, people smile and wave.
There’s also a really great welfare team who just make me feel so looked after and safe here.
Most of all, I love how much this feels like home.' Chloe
'I love the fact that everyone knows everyone, and that approaching other year groups isn’t intimidating and college really subverts the idea of exclusivity.' Leila
'Whenever I’m heading to the library after being in insanely busy central Oxford, the stillness always makes me stop and breathe and remember what’s important!' Nyasha
'I found choosing a college really hard!
I chose one to apply to but was interviewed at two colleges, and ended up being offered a place at the other one.' Imogen
View a selection of 360° images of:
Student accommodation Junior common room Libraries Sports facilities Quads and gardens

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/colleges/do-you-choose-a-college:
Not exactly.
You can put a college's campus code on your UCAS form to specify a preference but you might still be shortlisted and offered a place by another college.
This 'reallocation' helps us ensure that the best candidates, regardless of which college they select, are offered places.
Typically, around a third of successful applicants receive an offer from a college they didn't specify on their application.
There are over 30 colleges and halls offering undergraduate courses at Oxford.
College campus codes are listed on each college page .
If you can't decide on which college to apply to then you can make an open application.
Read more about this on this page.
All colleges have signed up to a Common Framework for admissions which means the same application process for your course at every college.
Whichever college you go to, you will be studying for the same degree at the end of your course.
Although all undergraduates belong to a college, it is the University of Oxford, not the colleges, which awards degrees.
My college is so friendly and inclusive, and the other students are so incredibly diverse and interesting.
There is a really strong support system, and I feel like I am truly part of a community in which we all look out for each other.
Izzy
On the whole, colleges have more similarities than differences but here are a few things you might like to consider:
Then you are welcome to choose an open application on your UCAS form.
This will mean that your application will be assigned to a college or hall that has relatively fewer applications for your course in the year you apply.
In 2023, 16% of applicants made open applications.
Tutors have no preference for direct or open applications: they are looking for the best applicants for their course.
However, once your application has been allocated to a college, this is final.
If there are any colleges you do not want to go to, you should name a college preference rather than submitting an open application.
Most colleges offer most courses so they don’t specialise, though the Permanent Private Halls (PPHs) offer a smaller range of subjects.
Check which colleges offer your course .
They all have high academic standards.
Extra-curricular opportunities don’t vary as much as you might think, either – facilities do vary between colleges, but you may be able to use those of another college.
You can always join University-wide clubs and societies and use the University’s facilities.
Regardless of which college you belong to, you will be able to mix freely across colleges and have friends over to yours.
You will also meet people not at your college in your department and at university-wide events.
Most students will say their college is the best within a few days of arriving - even if it is not the one they put on their UCAS form!
College pride is big, but it doesn't get in the way of intercollege friendship.
I have never felt so liked as I do at my college.
Tamsin
Competition for places at all Oxford colleges is very strong.
None of them is easy to get in to.
Some colleges tend to receive more applications for each place than others, but this varies from year to year.
Open applicants are allocated to colleges which have fewer applications in that year.
If a college is very oversubscribed for a particular course, shortlisted applicants might be 'reallocated' and invited to interview by another college instead.
Each college interviews roughly the same number of applicants for each place.
Many applicants will be interviewed by several colleges during the interview period in December.
If at all possible, come to a University Open Day and look round several colleges.
This will help you decide what college characteristics and facilities are important to you.
You can also read more about each college on the college pages or on the colleges’ own websites.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/colleges/which-oxford-colleges-offer-my-course:
Oxford colleges do not specialise in particular subject areas, as they all excel in all subjects that they teach.
Most colleges offer most courses.
Select the course names listed on this page to view which of our colleges and Permanent Private Halls (PPHs) offer each.
You can also visit our college pages for a complete list of courses offered by a particular college.
Visit Modern Languages for full details of the different language courses available at different colleges.
Please note that deferred entry is not permitted for this course.
The standard medical course (A100) is offered at:
The graduate entry medical course (A101) is offered at:
FAQs- Colleges

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/colleges/college-facilities:
All Oxford colleges offer the same excellence in teaching, but they do vary in terms of their size, location and facilities.
Use the dropdowns below to check the characteristics that matter to you.
Visit the college’s own website for details (linked to below) or our college pages for an introduction, and summary of key information for each.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/colleges/do-I-pay-to-live-in-my-college:
Students pay for accommodation and food, although this is often heavily subsidised.
Colleges provide a wide variety of accommodation and meal options.
Costs vary across colleges and are likely to increase annually.
It is important you understand how much your degree is going to cost and what financial support you might be eligible for.
Visit our page on living costs for more information.
The costs on this page are weighted averages and apply only to the academic year 2024-25.
Costs are likely to increase annually.
175 days covers eight weeks per term, and an additional week before the first term for freshers' week.
The exact number of days that you will need to spend in Oxford may vary, as will the number of days accommodation offered by each college.
ABOUT
This table gives an indication of the types of costs students will need to cover for accommodation and other charges.
If you require more detailed information about college costs and charges, please get in touch with individual colleges directly.
All their contact details can be found on their college page .
FAQs - Fees and funding

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/colleges/college-virtual-tours:
These 360° views cover facilities such as the dining hall, library, JCR, chapel, as well as an example of a student room, garden or quad, and the porters’ lodge.
A college JCR
Student accommodation
Libraries
Sports facilities
Quads and gardens

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/fees-and-funding:
Oxford offers one of the most generous financial support packages available for UK students, providing over £10 million of financial support to undergraduates from lower-income households.
Around 1 in 4 UK students currently receives an annual, non-repayable bursary from Oxford.
Our ambition is to ensure that no one with outstanding academic potential is deterred from studying here because of their background, personal circumstances, or finances.
Are you eligible for one of our generous financial support packages?
Scholarship support for low-income UK students.
What else will you need to pay for and how will you meet these costs?
How much will you pay for your course?
Find out about government support available to help with fees and living costs.
Find your fees and what financial support you might be eligible for.
Fees and Funding arrangements for UK undergraduates starting in 2026
Use our fees, funding and scholarship search tool

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/fees-and-funding/oxford-support:
The following page contains information about Oxford's non-repayable bursaries and scholarship programmes for students starting in October 2025, along with external scholarships that may be available.
If you are a UK-resident studying for your first undergraduate degree and your annual household income is £32,500 or less, we will offer you a Crankstart Scholarship.
This includes a non-repayable bursary worth up to £6,150 per year towards study and living costs.
The Crankstart Scholarship also provides access to funded internships to develop employability skills, volunteering opportunities and social and community building events.
For full details of the scholarship visit the Crankstart Scholarship pages .
If you are a UK student, or a Republic of Ireland (ROI) national living in the UK or Ireland, from a lower-income household studying for your first undergraduate degree (or Graduate Entry Medicine) and are not eligible for, or do not take up, a Crankstart Scholarship you will be eligible to receive an annual non-repayable Oxford Bursary to help with the costs of studying and living in Oxford.
Eligible students who are studying the Undergraduate Certificate or Diploma in Theological Studies on a full-time basis will also be considered for an Oxford Bursary award.
Students from the EU, EEA and Switzerland who have been granted settled or pre-settled status under the EU Settlement Scheme may qualify for Home fee status and student finance from the UK government, and therefore they may also be eligible for an Oxford Bursary, if they meet the residence requirements.
The bursary amount will depend on your annual household income:
Receiving the bursary enables me to pursue my academic and sporting goals without the burden of financial anxiety.
The financial security provided by the bursary is incredibly comforting as it lets me access the full Oxford experience and allows me to dedicate myself to my degree to fulfil my academic potential, as well as contribute to other aspects of university life.
Current Oxford Bursary holder
There is no separate application process for the Oxford Bursary or Crankstart Scholarship as these are based on the household income assessment carried out by your regional funding agency.
You just need to ensure both you and those who you live with are financially assessed when you apply for UK government funding.
If you are eligible for an Oxford Bursary or Crankstart Scholarship and are starting your course in 2025, you will be notified of your entitlement from mid to late September 2025.
You must have your financial assessment completed by 30 May 2026 to be considered.
(New and returning students on course in 2024/25 should visit our Oxford Support webpage for details of the bursary support available in the 2024/25 academic year).
If you are studying for your first undergraduate degree and live more than 80 miles from Oxford within the UK, we will help with your travel costs between your stated home address and Oxford.
If you are a Crankstart Scholar or an Oxford Bursary recipient, you will automatically receive a non-repayable annual Oxford Travel Supplement of £220 if you live between 80 and 150 miles from Oxford.
If you live more than 150 miles from Oxford, you will receive an annual Oxford Travel Supplement of £550.
Distance is measured as the direct distance in miles (sometimes termed 'as the crow flies').
If eligible you will be notified of this additional funding shortly after being contacted about your bursary funding from Oxford.
If you have ever been in care or are studying without the emotional or financial support of your family, you can apply for a non-repayable annual bursary of up to £3,500 for each year of your course to help with costs, including during the vacations.
Before applying, students must have taken out the full government support available to them, unless there is a good reason why this is not the case.
Our Student Support Bursary is available to assist UK students who may require financial assistance in a range of circumstances.
If you have a shortfall in your finances or need to meet additional exceptional costs once you have started your course, you will be able to apply for non-repayable supplementary funding.
There are a small number of other centrally administered scholarships available for undergraduates and these are summarised below.
For further details of each scheme, click on the name of the scholarship.
Applications for these scholarships are now closed.
Applicants must be ordinarily resident in the UK and from a Muslim community, applying for any subject in the course listing , except medicine and PGCE.
Applications will not be considered from those applying for a second undergraduate degree.
Students must be ordinarily resident in and/or educated in the following countries:
Albania; Armenia; Azerbaijan; Belarus; Bosnia and Herzegovina; Bulgaria; Croatia; Czech Republic; Estonia; Georgia; Hungary; Kazakhstan; Kyrgyz Rep.; Latvia; Lithuania; Macedonia;  Moldova; Montenegro; Poland; Romania; Russia; Serbia; Slovakia; Slovenia; Tajikistan; Turkmenistan; Ukraine; Uzbekistan.
Fees, funding and scholarship search
The Fees, funding and scholarship search provides a comprehensive list of awards being offered by the colleges, departments and faculties.
For information on a number of scholarships and funding search tools administered externally to Oxford, please refer to our external scholarships page .
Various application processes and closing dates apply.
">Video of Help with the cost – financial support at Oxford University

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/fees-and-funding/crankstart:
Find out more about the support available for UK undergraduates starting in 2025
Are you a current scholar?
Take a look at what is available for you
Access to internship bursaries of up to £3,200 as well as exclusive internships
Learn more about the volunteering carried out by our scholars and how to get involved
A community of scholars with a wide range of events held every year
Hear more about the scholarship from scholars past and present
Find out more

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/fees-and-funding/living-costs:
Your living costs can vary significantly dependent on your lifestyle.
These are estimated to be between £1,425 and £2,035 per month in 2025-26.
Each academic year usually consists of three terms of eight weeks each, but you may need to be in Oxford for longer.
We provide the cost per month so you can multiply up by the number of months you expect to live in Oxford.
As a guide, you may wish to budget over a nine-month period to ensure you also have sufficient funds during the holidays to meet essential costs.
The likely living costs for 2025-26 are published below.
These costs are based on a single, full-time student, with no dependants, living in Oxford.
This information is provided to ensure that you are fully aware of and consider very carefully the likely living costs associated with your chosen course of study at Oxford.
In addition to reviewing the information on this page, you should fully consider and research your personal likely living costs.
As part of the Financial Declaration process, you will need to confirm that you are willing and able to fund your living expenses at least at the lower amount in the range shown above, and any remaining years of your course after 2025-26 (see note below on 'Living costs for future years').
Please note that the University calculates its maintenance stipend for undergraduate scholarships using the average of the lower and upper likely living costs amounts, which equates to £15,570 for the 2025-26 academic year.
In order to provide these likely living costs (which are rounded to the nearest £5), the University and the Oxford SU conducted a living costs survey to complement existing student expenditure data from a variety of sources, including the UK government's Student Income and Expenditure Survey and the National Union of Students (NUS).
These estimated food costs would enable you to eat in your college for three meals each day and there is some provision for dining out but food costs may be lower or higher, depending on your personal choice about where and what you eat.
Most students in college eat in the dining hall, although there are basic self-catering facilities available.
These estimated accommodation costs include related bills (eg utilities such as electricity and heating) and are based on the latest available college accommodation costs with an inflationary increase applied.
Please note that college accommodation costs take into account a range of factors, and the impact of inflation on these costs will therefore vary from year to year.
All colleges provide rooms for their undergraduate students during term-time for the first year and for at least one other year of their course, and rent will vary depending on the college and room standard.
Please visit the Colleges section of our website for more information on individual colleges.
You can also choose to live in privately-rented accommodation, but should be aware you will usually have to pay rent for a whole calendar year, including any vacations.
Private accommodation costs and utility bills may vary to the figures shown and may be subject to higher inflationary increases.
The costs will also depend on the number of people you share with and the quality and location of the accommodation.
These are likely costs directly related to your studies, such as text books, stationery, printing and photocopying, course-related equipment and materials.
These are small, miscellaneous costs which do not fall under the other categories above.
Further advice on planning a budget is available on our Managing your budget webpage.
You may need to make additional provision for costs such as travel to and from Oxford.
If you are an international student who needs a student visa, see the international students section below.
If you have dependants (a partner or a child) or live with other family members, the following information may also be of assistance when considering your increased costs:
If you need a student visa you will need to budget for the cost of the student visa and also the immigration health surcharge (see the student visa webpages for more information on the cost).
The immigration health surcharge is paid upfront when you apply for your student visa and covers the entire duration of your course and any additional time the Home Office adds to your course end date so this matches the visa expiry date.
For example, this will be a 3 or 4 year health surcharge based on your course length and the 4 months added to your course end date by the Home Office.
You should plan ahead for this expenditure as it must be paid with your visa application and the Home Office does not offer any instalment options.
This surcharge also needs to be paid for each dependant, if they are able to accompany you to the UK.
The current economic climate and high national rate of inflation make it very hard to estimate potential changes to the cost of living over the next few years.
When planning your finances for any future years of study in Oxford beyond 2025-26, it is suggested that you allow for potential increases in living expenses of around 4% each year – although this rate may vary depending on the national economic situation.
To help in planning your living costs, we asked a number of our undergraduate students to share their experiences on the cost of living and studying in Oxford.
Below are a range of case studies from current students showing how their living costs vary.
During term time I live in college-owned accommodation – my college charges the same rent for every room which helps with future budgeting.
For my meals, I mainly eat in my college’s dining hall as I find it is the easiest way to get nutritious food while preserving my energy.
During term I mainly spend money on food and drink, specifically eating out and socialising with friends.
I bought clothes at the start of university that still fit and I like, so I haven’t purchased much clothing for a while.
Most of the societies I have been involved with at Oxford have a minimal membership fee and quite low-price events, and my college has a book grant which means I haven’t spent too much on course reading materials either (particularly given my college library has the vast majority of the books I need).
During vacations I usually live with my parents rent-free, though having been involved in various college activities I have been able to stay in Oxford for some additional time with subsidised rent.
For additional costs that arise from my disability, there is the government Disabled Students Allowance, which has covered everything I have needed (including printing costs and mental health support) apart from £200 which I paid towards the cost of a specialist laptop which has lasted me through my studies.
Outside of term time there are plenty of opportunities for work to top up my income, including working with the university and my college, as well as more local opportunities – I have monetised my hobby of DJing which has been a great way to earn money while having minimal impact on my studies.
I feel I manage my finances well, despite certain costs at Oxford being more expensive than back at home.
I like to budget by keeping a rough idea of how much money I can sustainably spend each week, and keeping track of how much I actually spend.
During term time I live in college accommodation and have access to a kitchen, which I use regularly rather than eating in hall, as I prefer to cook for myself.
I do a weekly food shop at a budget supermarket to keep costs down, and also have the odd trip to a café for lunch.
I don’t really go out to restaurants and this helps keep me within my budget as eating out often can really add up.
I play table tennis for the university, and my membership and equipment costs are a couple of hundred pounds over the course of the year.
Some of this cost is reimbursed by the university.
I do some vacation work as a tutor to earn some extra money to supplement my income.
I am a Crankstart scholar, and the money from this scholarship means I don’t have to worry about essential costs, like my rent, and am able to splash out on some additional activities - like going to a ball!
The money also means I can prioritise my studies during vacations and spend less time focusing on how I'm going to fund the next term.
I live in a set in college with one roommate during term time - we have two bedrooms, a living room, and a shared bathroom.
I don't really use college meal facilities because I rarely remember to book for hall in advance and there aren't many kitchens, so I tend to use cafés and supermarket meals quite a lot.
I try to stay in Oxford over vacations for access to libraries, but if I can't, I live rent-free with my parents outside term time.
My co-curricular activities aren't particularly expensive - I'm mostly involved in student media, which requires more time and effort than money.
There are occasional one-off costs in Oxford (like when I broke my glasses) and I spend a moderate amount on books.
During term-time, I live in an ensuite college room and have meals at college almost every day.
During Christmas, I stay for free at my friend’s house but for the Easter vacation, I stay in college accommodation for exam revision.
I seldom buy new clothes or any new personal items and I still have my computer since I first bought it during my first year.
My social life is active but not too busy.
I hang out with my friends once or twice per week for dinner or drinks, and sometimes I attend talks or seminars which are mostly free.
Also some of my spending goes on sport activities as I have to pay for membership fees and equipment.
My spending on study-related materials is minimal as all of my textbooks can be borrowed from my tutors or from the library, and I only have to spend money on printing and stationery.
During my time at the University of Oxford, I have developed a strategy for managing my finances effectively, ensuring that I can meet both my academic and personal needs while living in this vibrant and historic city.
I live in college accommodation, which allows me to predict my housing costs for the entire year.
At the start of each academic year, I create a spreadsheet to calculate the total funding I will receive from sources like SFE (Student Finance England), scholarships, and bursaries.
I then note down larger expenses such as rent, toiletries, food, and phone bills.
For meals, I frequently visit my college hall, as it offers affordable, convenient dining options and serves as a great social opportunity.
I also enjoy cooking for myself.
To stick to my budget, I order groceries online and have them delivered.
I often coordinate with friends to split the delivery costs, making it a cost-effective choice.
I shop at a large supermarket chain which offers a rewards program, which provides fantastic deals and rewards through vouchers as the points accumulate.
When my budget for the weekly grocery shop is tighter than expected, my friends and I opt for a taxi to reach the local discount supermarket, which saves on travel costs, and these stores generally offer more budget-friendly options.
I always ensure that I include my 'non-negotiables' in my financial plan.
For me, one such non-negotiable is my gym membership, so I factor in the cost of my preferred gym to ensure it's accounted for.
Like many students, I enjoy socializing with friends and participating in extracurricular activities.
Oxford provides numerous low-cost or free opportunities for students to engage in various societies and events.
Many restaurants and cafes in Oxford offer loyalty schemes, allowing you to enjoy discounts or even free food and drinks after a few visits.
Additionally, my college's book grant has proven invaluable in reducing the cost of the key course reading materials that it is helpful to have my own copies of.
This, coupled with the extensive collection at the college library, has minimized my spending on academic resources.
Overall, my financial strategy revolves around careful planning and making the most of available resources, allowing me to navigate the unique financial challenges of studying in Oxford as a law undergraduate student.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/fees-and-funding/course-fees:
The course fee you will be charged and the support available is determined by your fee status, which will be Home or Overseas
The course fees paid by matriculated students* are for the provision of tuition, supervision, academic services and facilities by the University (including your department or faculty) and the colleges, but do not include residential or other living costs.
Up to and including the academic year 2018/19, separate figures have been published on the university website for university fees and for college fees: the total payable is the sum of these two figures.
From the academic year 2019/20, course fees for matriculated students are published as a single figure.
This change is intended to ensure that the total level of fees payable is in all cases completely clear.
Home undergraduate and PGCE students can access a tuition fee loan from the UK government to cover their course fee in full.
The course fees you pay include your fees for both University and college services and are divided between the University (including your department or faculty) and your college on a formula basis.
More details are available from the Student Fees Team on request.
*For an explanation of the term ‘matriculated students’, see our Matriculation page.
I feel very fortunate that I have faced no financial difficulties whatsoever at Oxford.
This is entirely due to the extremely generous bursary support, which means I can focus on my studies (and hobbies) without financial anxiety.
Chris
If you are a Home student undertaking your first undergraduate degree, current university policy is to charge fees at the level of the cap set by the government, which for 2025 will be £9,535.
For details of annual increases, please see our guidance on likely increases to fees and charges .
Home students can access a tuition fee loan from the UK government for the full amount of your course fee and do not need to pay any fees upfront.
If you wish to pay your own course fees upfront rather than accessing a loan, further information on the arrangements for this can be found in our Payments and Refunds and Fee Liability pages.
If you are a Home student who has already completed a previous undergraduate programme of study you will be classed as an Equivalent or Lower Qualification (ELQ) student.
Your course fee for 2025 will be the same as the standard Home course fee rate, and you will not be eligible for any financial support from Oxford or the UK government.
If you did not complete your course, you might not receive funding for the full length of your studies at Oxford.
On 11 May 2021 the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) published new regulations and guidance to be used in assessing the fee status of students commencing courses in August 2021 and later.
We will be using this guidance to carry out fee status assessments for students commencing courses in 2025/26, including students from the EU, EEA and Switzerland.
If you are an EU national and do not live in the UK then you are likely to be charged Overseas fees.
Students with settled and pre-settled status in the UK and some other categories of students who work in the UK can qualify for Home fee status as long as they meet the residence criteria.
If you are not classified as a 'Home' student you will be classed as an 'Overseas’ student and you should be aware that you will not be eligible for a tuition fee loan from the UK government.
If you are an Overseas student, you will be charged a significantly higher level of course fee, which will vary according to your programme of study (see the courses listing for full details).
* Clinical medicine fees will be significantly higher for Overseas students, please visit the dedicated Fees and Funding section within the Medicine course page for full details.
If you are a Home student on the six-year medicine course, you will have different course fee arrangements in years five and six.
Course fees for UK students in these years of study will be covered by the NHS.
Course fee support arrangements for ROI students in years five and six are not yet known.
Visit the Funding for UK Medical Students page for more information.
Medical students with Overseas fee status should note that the course fees for the clinical years of their course will be considerably higher.
Your fee status is based upon where you usually live, your nationality, and in certain cases, the level of any previous study.
Please visit our fee status page for more information.
Home students will be required to pay a year abroad course fee of 15% of the full course fee that applies in that year.
Overseas students will be charged a reduced rate of course fee for their year abroad.
Visit the Year Abroad Fees page for further information on fee rates.
Fees and charges will usually increase annually.
For details, please see our guidance on likely increases to fees and charges .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/fees-and-funding/government-support:
If you are a UK student undertaking your first undergraduate degree, you will be eligible to access support from the UK government towards the costs of studying at Oxford.
What you can get will depend on where you are from in the UK and on your household-income.
If you are a UK student, you will be eligible to access a loan from the UK government for the full amount of your course fees, regardless of the level of your household income, and do not need to pay anything upfront.
In addition to course fee support, you can also apply for funding towards your living costs, and the amount available to you will vary according to where you are from in the UK.
You will be able to access a basic maintenance loan towards your living costs regardless of your household income level and if you are from a lower-income household you will also be eligible to access additional maintenance support.
You should apply to your regional funding agency (see below) before the end of the Easter holidays to ensure that funding is in place for the start of your course, and should remember to apply to be means tested, if appropriate.
What does it mean to be ‘means tested’ or ‘financially assessed’?
If you want to be considered for additional maintenance support, you will need to complete a financial assessment as part of your application to your funding agency in order to calculate your household income.
Although much of this process is automated, you may need to provide financial information to support your assessment.
What is household income and how is it calculated?
Your household income is made up of your income plus that of the people who live with you, such as your parents/step-parent/partner.
Household income is assessed based on gross taxable income for the last full tax year.
If you are starting your course in 2025, information from the 2023/24 tax year will be used.
The regional funding agency figures below may be subject to inflationary changes in future years.
Any UK government loans that you take out will need to be repaid after you leave your course .
If you are a UK student and have additional costs because of a disability or dependants, you could be eligible to receive the following extra assistance from the UK government.
EU students
The UK government has confirmed that most EU students starting their course from 2021 onwards will not be able to apply for student finance for the duration of their course.
For courses starting on or after 1 August 2021, the UK government has confirmed that EU, other EEA, and Swiss Nationals will be eligible for student finance from the UK government if they have UK citizens’ rights (i.e.
if they have pre-settled or settled status, or if they are an Irish citizen covered by the Common Travel Area arrangement).
The support you can access from the government will depend on your residency status.
For further information please refer to the Student Finance eligibility criteria and the UK government’s Education Hub FAQs page .
Islands students
If you are from the Channel Islands or Isle of Man, you will be entitled to different support to that of students from the rest of the UK.
Find out more at:
US and Canadian Loans
If you are from the US or Canada, you can apply for loans to help with fees and living costs.
Details can be found at:
The University is able to process applications for US Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) funding (also known as the GI Bill or Post 9/11 Bill) and can complete and submit certificates of enrolment to the VA.
Please refer to our US Department of Veterans Affairs funding webpage for further information.
All other students
You should also check whether there is any funding available to you from your home government to support your studies at Oxford.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/fees-and-funding/repayments:
If you have taken out a government loan you will be expected to start repaying this once you have left your course and are earning above a certain amount.
The information below is the University's best understanding of the current position.
Any changes the government make to repayment arrangements are outside the control of the University.
Any loans you take out from the government for your course fees or living costs will be added together to form a single amount to be repaid.
Each year you should receive a statement which details the amount to be repaid and the amount of interest that has accrued.
You do not have to repay Assembly Learning Grants, Maintenance Grants, or Special Support Grants as part of this process.
Oxford Bursaries are also non-repayable.
You will not need to start repaying anything until the first April after you have left your course and you are earning over the repayment threshold.
For students commencing their studies in 2025/26, repayments will be calculated as 9% of any salary you earn over the repayment threshold of £25,000 (and this threshold will be frozen until 2026/27).
Repayments are usually taken from your salary if you are employed or pay tax in the UK.
If you live or are employed overseas you have to make alternative arrangements and the repayment threshold may be different.
The length of time it will take you to repay changes depending upon how much you borrowed.
Loans will be written off 40 years after they become eligible to be repaid.
The amount you pay each month is not affected by how much you have borrowed but by what you earn; this will be 9% of your earnings over £25,000.
For example:
Repayments are currently calculated at 9% of any salary you earn over the repayment threshold of £27,295.
The repayment threshold increases with inflation each tax year.
You will normally have your loans written off 30 years after they become eligible to be repaid.
Repayments are currently calculated as 9% of any salary you earn over the repayment threshold of £24,990.
You will normally have your loans written off 25 years after they become eligible to be repaid.
Repayments are currently calculated at 9% of any salary you earn over the repayment threshold of £31,395.
As well as repaying the original amount you borrowed, you will have to repay the interest which is added to this.
Interest will be added to the outstanding balance each year, not the original amount you borrowed.
For students commencing their students from 2024/25 interest rates will be set at RPI+0% to ensure graduates do not repay more than they borrowed in real terms.
RPI is the Retail Price Index which is one calculation of the cost of inflation.
Adding RPI to a loan amount is generally thought to indicate the value of the borrowed amount in today's terms.
RPI can vary widely from year to year.
The interest rate is usually set on 1 September each year, based on the Retail Price Index of the previous March.
The interest rate charged is normally the Retail Price Index plus up to 3%, depending on your circumstances and income.
Interest will be charged at the flat rate of RPI or at the bank base rate plus 1% (whichever is the lower) whether in study or in repayment, and regardless of income.
Interest rates will vary each year as they are based upon RPI.
However the amount you will pay per month will not be affected by interest rates.
What will potentially change is the length of time it takes you to repay your loan.
This depends upon how much you earn during the repayment period.
A large number of people are likely to be repaying for the full number of years as they won’t earn enough to repay the debt earlier; however this will mean that you won’t repay the full amount.
There is no system of charges for students who wish to repay their loans early.
Additional repayments can be made at any time by debit card, cheque, or by direct debit.
Repayments from overseas can be made by international bank transfer.
Remember the amount you repay will depend upon your earnings, not the amount due to be repaid, so you will earn enough to repay what you are expected to even if this isn’t the full amount.
However Oxford students are highly sought after by employers due to their motivation and achievement levels.
Students from Oxford go into a large variety of professions .
You can find further information on repayments at the GOV.UK Repayments website .
View independent advice on student funding from MoneySavingExpert.com .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/fees-and-funding/fees-funding-and-scholarships:
Find and compare the annual cost of studying and living at Oxford, as well as support that may be available to you through funding and scholarship opportunities.
Please note that:
The University makes every effort to provide a fees, funding and scholarship search facility that is helpful and reliable for prospective and current students.
However, the University cannot guarantee that the search facility will deliver a comprehensive list of available scholarships, and you are encouraged to undertake your own research into the range of potential scholarships and other funding for which you may be eligible.
The University will not be liable for any errors or omissions in the fees, funding and scholarship search.
By using the search tool you agree to the terms and conditions .
The rates and funding shown are for planning purposes only and do not constitute a financial agreement .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/applying-to-oxford:
The only things that Oxford students have in common are academic ability and intellectual curiosity.
Our students come from all over the world and bring with them an amazing range of backgrounds and interests.
This helps make our University one of the most exciting learning environments anywhere.
Oxford is recognised as offering one of the best educations in the world and competition for places to study here at undergraduate level is intense.
On average we receive over 23,000 applications for approximately 3,300 places each year.
To make a competitive application by our 15 October deadline, follow the steps on this page:
">Video of How it felt to receive an offer from Oxford
Discover 10 good reasons to apply to Oxford
See an overview of the process and deadlines.
What you need to know.
Visit your course page for course specific requirements.
Our students come from 170 different countries and we hugely value the benefits such diversity brings to our academic community.
Our application process is exactly the same for you as for all other candidates.
It is never too late to be an Oxford student!
We are looking for the best students regardless of age and background.
As a mature student you need to follow exactly the same application process as all other applicants.
FAQs - Application process

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/applying-to-oxford/step-by-step-support:
For the best free support with your Oxford application, follow the steps on this page.
Designed to be explored alongside this site, our prospectus will give you a bite-sized and digestible first look at what Oxford offers its students.
Choosing Oxford is our newsletter for prospective applicants.
After signing up, you will receive step-by-step support with applying, along with insights into student life.
Sign up to Choosing Oxford .
Previous editions of Choosing Oxford:
Follow us on our social media channels to get the most up-to-date application information throughout the year, and hear from our students.
Take a look at our calendar of events and programmes for opportunities to hear from staff and current students and to have your questions answered.
Open Days are one of the best ways to find out whether you might enjoy student life here and a perfect opportunity to ask questions.
Our guide for applicants is essential reading for anyone serious about applying and includes lots of information about filling out UCAS forms, Oxford’s admissions tests and interview preparation.
Take a look at our three Official Guide videos to find out more about about student life at Oxford, how to apply and ways to prepare for studying at Oxford.
View our video guides .
We also highly recommend that you dip into the edited videos from our 2025 Choosing Oxford online student conference, which will give you a real insight into studying at Oxford as an undergraduate.
View our Choosing Oxford online conference videos.
By this we mean, ways to enhance enjoyment of your chosen subject beyond the school curriculum.
This wider study will help you put in a strong application and may well give you some great content for your UCAS personal statement and help you prepare for an interview.
Visit our FAQ pages .
If you are applying whilst still in education, we recommend asking the teacher supporting your application and writing your UCAS reference to sign up to About Oxford , our newsletter for teachers, so that they too are kept up to date with our admissions news.
Read previous editions of About Oxford

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/applying-to-oxford/admissions-timeline:
View an accessible version of this image
Find out more at ucas.com .
*All Oxford admissions tests will be online, delivered in partnership with Pearson VUE via its established network of test centres.
Detailed information on how to arrange your test can be found on our individual test pages .
Please check our Admissions tests page for the latest information.
Find out more on our Written work page .
Interviews take place in December, if you are shortlisted.
Find out more on our Interviews webpage .
Find out if you have an offer in January 2026.
Deferring entry is not always possible, so we recommend that you check with your course department first.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/applying-to-oxford/guide:
To make sure we consider all applicants thoroughly and fairly, there are several stages to our admissions process.
Each one is outlined on this page.
It is important you understand your role in each of these stages and are aware of the deadlines.
The admissions timeline provides an overview of this process.
In 2025 our UCAS application deadline is 6pm (BST) on Wednesday 15 October , which is earlier than most other universities.
If you are applying to Oxford this year, it is likely that the admissions process for your chosen course will include an admissions test taken at a Pearson VUE test centre in October.
You can register for your test from 18 June until 19 September (6pm BST).
Registered candidates will be able to book their test from 18 August (1pm BST) until 26 September (6pm BST).
Places are allocated first come, first served so we recommend doing this as soon as possible.
All booking and registration details are available on our admissions test pages .
When registering, candidates will be able to request access arrangements, for example extra time, so long as they can submit evidence of need provided by a medical or educational specialist.
Candidates who require access arrangements are advised to read the Admissions Test Access Arrangement Policy carefully to ensure their evidence is sufficient.
The deadline for the submission of any written work required as part of the admissions process for your course is 10 November .
Admission requirements for our courses vary so check carefully the admission requirements for your course before applying.
If you are already studying at another university outside the UK and thinking of applying to Oxford, please read our guidance carefully .
Similar guidance is available for those already studying at another UK university .
Start work on this anytime from May and submit by 15 October.
Don't miss our guidance on how to make the most competitive application you can - including lots of advice on writing personal statements, predicted grades and what to do if you have a disability.
These are an essential part of the assessment for many courses.
Check if and when you need to take an admissions test and how to arrange this in good time.
Please note, the deadline to register and book your test is before the UCAS deadline.
Complete the cover form and submit any required essays by 10 November .
Applicants shortlisted for entry in 2026 will be interviewed online in December.
Candidates who are interviewed will hear whether or not they have been offered a place on 13 January 2026 .
Once you have received your exam results and met the conditions of any offer, your place will be confirmed!
Visit our step-by-step support page to help guide you through ways to find out more and applying to Oxford.
Policy on criminal convictions

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/applying-to-oxford/for-international-students:
">Video of What&#039;s it like to study at Oxford as an international student
Today, one third of our students, including 20% of undergraduates, are international citizens and come from over 170 countries.
Our admissions process is the same for all applicants but if you are coming from abroad we hope you will find the information in this section particularly useful.
Key admissions advice to help you put in a competitive application.
Find out more about the warm welcome and exciting opportunities that await you.
Make sure you understand how much your degree will cost.
Will you need a visa?
Do you need to meet our English Language requirements?
Be part of our global network and get lifelong support with your career.
How many people from your country are already here?
Join our international student mailing list to be the first to hear about upcoming webinars, key dates, and exclusive opportunities designed for prospective international applicants.
Sign up to our international student mailing list

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/applying-to-oxford/guidance-disabled-applicants:
We welcome applications from disabled students, including those with sensory and/or mobility impairments, long-term mental health conditions, autism, long term illnesses and Specific Learning Difficulties (SpLDs).
Our admissions decisions are based on academic merit alone and our Disability Advisory Service currently holds records for more than 7,500 students.
Around a quarter of students known to DAS have long-term mental health conditions or specific learning difficulty (SpLD) such as dyslexia, dyspraxia as well as attention deficit (hyperactivity) disorder (ADHD).
Whatever your disability, we can provide reasonable adjustments (also referred to as access arrangements) during the application process as well as reasonable adjustments and agreed support throughout your time studying at Oxford.
We strongly recommend that you attend an Open Day if you can.
There are three main Open Days each year: two at the end of June or beginning of July and one in mid-September.
The Disability Advisory Service have a stand at the Open Days so that you can come and talk to us and we will endeavour to answer your queries and sign-post you.
You can also contact college disability co-ordinators who will be able to answer your questions and offer advice.
You may also like to refer to the University Access Guide for information on buildings around Oxford, and to explore an interactive map of the city centre.
Detailed information about access to specific buildings is also available from individual colleges and departments.
Whatever your particular circumstances, the earlier we know about your individual requirements then the sooner we can begin to meet them.
We only ask you to tell us so that we can offer support if it is needed and make reasonable adjustments to facilitate your access to your course and our University.
Please follow our guidance on declaring your disability on your UCAS form.
UCAS also has further advice about how best to do this.
This Advance HE guide gives more information for disabled applicants applying to undergraduate courses.
You might also want to contact the college you're applying to and let them know; check our college pages for their contact details.
If you need to take one or more of our admissions tests as part of your application, you can be considered for access arrangements, for example extra time, so long as when registering for your test, you can submit evidence provided by a medical or educational specialist.
All information on registering and booking for admissions can be found on individual test pages but we recommend you start by reading our guidance for candidates requesting access arrangements , where you can also find our 'Registering for and booking your admissions test' guidance video.
Once a candidate has registered and submitted their evidence for approval, it can take five days for standard arrangements to be processed and more than ten days for non-standard arrangements.
It is the candidate’s responsibility to register early enough to allow sufficient time for their access arrangements to be processed and approved before the final booking deadline.
Failure to do so may mean you are unable to book a test place.
Test centre bookings are allocated on a first come, first served basis, so if you have particular requirements, we strongly recommend that you aim to register as soon as possible after 18 June so that your arrangements can be approved in time for you to book your test when bookings open on 18 August.
For more information about the arrangements for admissions tests, including deadlines for registration and booking, please check our admissions tests webpages .
If you are applying to study Law you will need to sit the LNAT, and submit an Examination Access Requirements form when you book your test.
If your application is shortlisted, you will be invited to attend an interview.
Please visit our interview pages for general information on how to prepare for your interview and what you can expect.
Please contact your college before your interview if you will need specific adjustments, for instance materials in alternative or accessible formats, extra time for reading written work before an interview, or adjustments to the interview timings.
Having a mental illness has always made me doubt the prospect of my university success, academically or otherwise.
Thankfully, my tutors and fellow students make me feel valued and respected, which allows me to truly flourish in Oxford.
- Anna
If you are offered a place at Oxford, please contact the Disability Advisory Service as soon as possible.
There is no need to wait until your examination results are announced.
It will help you to plan properly and get things in place before your arrival, so you can get on with enjoying student life and all it has to offer.
You can visit our Disability Advisory Service webpages to find out about the range of support that is available at Oxford.
Study support is developed around your individual circumstances, which means that you have a say in what equipment or study support will be most helpful to you, but you also have responsibility for thinking about and letting us know what you might need.
This can be difficult as it is not always easy to know what life at the University is going to be like before you get here.
However, there are a lot of people who can help you through the process and contacting the Disability Advisory Service is a good starting point.
The unimaginable has happened - I have been awarded a degree with distinction and a prize for best dissertation.
I was able to do an amazing amount of work and edit my dissertation very fast with the assistive technology you recommended and put in place.
For once I was able to do a vast amount of work without it impacting on my health.
- Sabena
If you are a UK student we also strongly recommend that you make an early application for the Disabled Students' Allowance (DSA) .
It can take several months from the point of application before full support is implemented, therefore the earlier you apply the better.
Please note that you will need to provide evidence of your disability to be eligible for DSAs (or for alternative exam arrangements at Oxford).
Our Disability Advisory Service will be happy to assist you with making your DSA application if necessary.
Students who are not eligible for a UK Disabled Students' Allowance should, in the first instance, seek funding from their own country, funding body, sponsor, research council or other source.
However, if there is no funding available, the University makes provision for students who require disability-related study support.
Please contact the Disability Advisory Service for more information about accessing this support.
With the expert guidance of the Disability Advisory Service (DAS), our colleges currently support around 5,000 disabled students and are experienced in responding to particular requirements.
If you feel your college may be unable to meet an essential disability requirement, our key advice is to contact your college and the DAS as soon as possible to make them aware of your circumstances, so that they have time to explore what reasonable adjustments can be made.
All colleges provide rooms for undergraduates in their first year, and many can also accommodate students for some or all of the remaining years of their course.
Most colleges have a limited number of accessible/ground floor rooms with ensuite bathrooms.
You may need arrangements made for a carer, or require an adjustable desk and ergonomic seating.
If you wish to live in college we recommend that you organise a visit to look at the accommodation to establish whether any adaptations (temporary or permanent) are necessary.
This should be arranged via the Disability Advisory Service as soon as possible because adaptations can take a while to organise.
It may not always be possible to adapt a room to meet all your needs, but colleges are always willing to look at the possibilities.
The University Accommodation Office provides information about accommodation in the private sector for all students.
Students with partners or dependent children should contact the Office as soon as they have been accepted as University-owned accommodation may be available.
You may also find it helpful to visit The University Access Guide for further information.
At Oxford, over 7,500 students are registered with the Disability Advisory Service.
We are committed to making reasonable adjustments and addressing individual support.
This is to promote a positive experience and allow students to participate fully and enjoy a fulfilling university experience.
For more information, visit the Disability Advisory Service’s (DAS) webpages .
Watch videos about studying at Oxford with a disability .
The University recognises that students sometimes fail to achieve their potential on their first attempt at school or college because of circumstances beyond their control (including ill health).
We take care to treat each application individually and would always take such mitigating circumstances into account if they are brought to our attention.
Applicants may like to mention these circumstances in their personal statement and the referee could also do so.
However, while difficult personal circumstances will be taken into account, they do not guarantee shortlisting for interview or lead to a lower conditional offer.
Visit the course pages for specific details.
You can be considered for access arrangements, for example extra time, so long as when registering for your test, you can submit evidence provided by a medical or educational specialist.
To ensure your evidence is sufficient, please read our Admissions Test Access Arrangement Policy .
Oxford will need to approve these arrangements before you can book your test, so it is important you register as soon as possible.
It can take five days to approve standard access arrangements and more than ten days to arrange non-standard arrangements, and it is your responsibility to make sure you are aware of registration and booking timelines and meet any deadlines.
For more information about the arrangements for admissions tests, please check our admissions tests webpages .
We recommend that you contact your college before your interview if you will need specific adjustments, for instance materials in alternative or accessible formats, extra time for reading written work before an interview, or adjustments to the interview timings.
Please visit the interviews section of this page for more advice.
Further information

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/applying-to-oxford/mature-students:
If you will be age 21 or older at the start of your course, then you will automatically be considered a mature applicant.
In general, the process to apply to Oxford is the same regardless of your age; however, we know that some elements of the application process may be more complex for mature applicants.
Oxford is looking for the candidates with the most academic potential, irrespective of their age or background.
Just like everyone else who applies, mature students need to demonstrate academic ability and commitment to study.
We know that mature applicants are likely to have a wide range of experiences beyond formal education, including work experience and volunteering.
Mature applicants are required to meet standard formal entry criteria (though they may meet this in a wide variety of ways), and we will therefore still need to see academic qualifications completed in the past 3 years.
Where relevant, tutors at Oxford will take your work experience and life skills into account when you apply.
These are most helpful when they relate to the course you are applying for, and help to demonstrate independent motivation and academic curiosity.
While showing these skills can add to your application, work experience will not replace direct evidence of your ability to succeed in a formal learning environment.
There is no disadvantage to applying in the absence of relevant work and life experience.
To make a competitive application, you will need to show that you have the necessary skills to tackle intensive, independently-driven academic study in your subject.
This means that we will be looking for recent evidence of success in formal education, typically within the three years before you apply.
This might be A-levels, or it could be an Access to Higher Education qualification, Open University course, foundation degree, or equivalent.
If you haven't done any formal study for longer than three years, it's a good idea to take another qualification to refresh your study skills.
Bear in mind, you may need to have A-levels or equivalent qualifications in particular subjects, depending on your chosen course.
Visit our admission requirements table for further details.
Don’t worry if your school results don’t reflect your best work.
We understand that education is an ongoing journey, and that a lot may have changed from when you left school.
We are most interested in your academic potential to pursue a degree now, not your abilities at age 18.
The application procedure for mature students is the same as for other students, and you can find further step-by-step guidance in our application guide .
When you apply, you will be asked to choose a particular Oxford college, or else to make an ‘open application’.
As a mature applicant, you can choose any Oxford college which offers your course.
You can also choose to preference either Harris Manchester College (which admits for a range of courses) or Wycliffe Hall (where you can study Theology and Religion or Philosophy and Theology), both of which are only open to mature students.
Whether you choose a mature college or apply to a college with a mix of students is a matter of personal choice.
Regardless of which college you attend, you will have access to personalised academic support and a wide array of college and University events and societies, including the opportunity to join a mature student society.
Visit our What are Oxford Colleges?
page for more information on Oxford’s collegiate system.
The UCAS application form requires an academic reference, which is usually completed by a school or college teacher.
Depending on your educational background, we understand that mature applicants may find it difficult to find a teacher who can speak to their academic potential.
While we encourage you to ask a teacher who is familiar with your recent work in a formal education setting, where this is not possible, you should ask someone who knows you from an educational setting, work context or volunteering, can give specific details of your academic potential and is not a friend or relative.
Applicants for many courses at the University of Oxford are asked to complete an admissions test.
Visit our admissions tests webpage to find out more.
Many subjects require you to submit written work as part of your application.
Mature applicants do not always have suitable written work, and we do understand this.
Please contact the college you’re considering to discuss your options.
If you have completed a degree at undergraduate level before, you may still apply to Oxford for a second undergraduate degree.
Before considering a second undergraduate degree, you should review your finance options, as you may not be eligible for the funding typically available for first undergraduate degrees.
If you already have an undergraduate degree in another subject, you may choose to apply for 'Senior Status'.
This option allows you to start your second undergraduate degree directly in year two of the degree.
While the application process for a second undergraduate degree, with or without the Senior Status option, is generally the same as the standard application process, you may wish to note that not all colleges offer the Senior Status option, and that this status is at the discretion of the college.
Visit our second undergraduate degree page for further information.
The University of Oxford does not offer part-time or distance learning options for our undergraduate degree courses.
All of our undergraduate courses are offered full-time, and require students to live in Oxford during term time in order to participate fully in the short, intensive teaching periods of the degree.
If you are interested in part-time or distance learning options, you may wish to consider one of the many certificates, diplomas and graduate courses offered by the University’s Department for Continuing Education .
Given the short, intensive nature of the teaching terms at Oxford, there are constraints around students working during term time.
However, many students pursue internship or work experience opportunities between terms.
Support in securing internships and placements is available through the Careers Service .
Please visit our Fees and Funding pages for more details on the financial support Oxford can offer.
The Crankstart Scholarship is available to all UK residents with a household income of £32,500 per year or less, who will be studying for their first undergraduate degree.
This scholarship offers an annual bursary of up to £6,090, as well as extensive personalised careers support and internship and volunteer opportunities.
If you have spent time in care or are estranged from your family, you may be eligible for additional bursary support .
If you are not eligible for, or choose not to take up the Crankstart Scholarship, you may be eligible to receive an Oxford Bursary, an annual, non-repayable bursary to support your living costs available to first-degree UK students with a household income of up to £50,000.
Those wo are offered a place at Harris Manchester for a Second Undergraduate Degrees (excluding those reading Graduate Entry Medicine) are eligible to apply for a scholarship.
Awards will be made primarily on the basis of academic merit but applicants’ financial situation will also be taken into consideration.
Offer holders will be forwarded the relevant application form in January and all those reading for a second BA are eligible, including overseas students from outside the UK or Republic of Ireland.
Mature students from the UK may also be eligible for further assistance from the Government to support them during their studies, including:
Yes, all Oxford students must live in or near Oxford city during term time.
All our undergraduate degrees involve intense study and high levels of commitment.
The amount of time you will spend studying in a week is approximately the same as a full-time job.
Most students study around 40 hours a week.
All undergraduate students are therefore required to be resident in the city during term time, either in college accommodation, in other accommodation within six miles of the city centre, or within 25 miles if it is your family home.
All first year undergraduate students are provided accommodation by their college and in the first instance you should discuss your accommodation with your assigned college.
You can also seek guidance from our Accommodation Office .
The University aims to assist wherever possible in the provision of childcare.
Visit our childcare pages for further details.
We do understand that people often develop their academic interests and skills later in life.
Having lower grades from school will not prevent you from making a successful application, as long as you are able to demonstrate recent academic achievement and exceptional academic ability.
Visit our individual test pages for more information on how to register.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/applying-to-oxford/familysupporters:
When it comes to deciding what to do after school, everyone benefits from the support of the family and friends who know them best.
Having said that, it's not always easy to know how to help, so we want to make sure you have to hand the information you might need.
On this page you will find a brief insight into student life at Oxford, plus our top tips on the admissions process.
We explain why we believe university might be the right next step for your child and why Oxford might be a good fit.
There's advice on how students should set about choosing what to study, preparing for university and how to put in a strong application.
We want you to know that students are in safe hands at Oxford and how seriously we take their wellbeing, so there's information on the support we offer.
We also understand that you need to be clear on how costs will be covered, and to be reassured that our financial support for UK students is some of the most generous offered by any university.
More detailed information about undergraduate life at Oxford and our admissions process can be found throughout our website and on the UCAS website , so please do explore further.
You are also warmly invited to accompany your child to one of our Open Days , where there are specific events for parents and carers, as well as other opportunities open to all.
If they are after life-changing experiences and opportunities, this could be the perfect next step.
Oxford is famous for offering one of the best educations in the world.
Some ideas for helping them make the most of their abilities.
Who studies at Oxford and how can they make a strong application?
Take a look at a summary of the admissions process.
Very few costs are paid up front and generous funding support is available.
Expert and personalised teaching in a subject they love.
Welcoming communities, plenty of support and opportunities for fun.
Individual guidance on finding the right job.
Oxford runs thousands of free events and programmes each year so everyone can find out more.
There’s a myth that Oxford is looking for the most well-rounded applicants, with a long list of varied extra-curricular activities.
In fact, extra-curricular activities are only helpful in so far as they demonstrate the selection criteria for your child’s chosen course.
Your child can find more advice on writing their personal statement on our UCAS application page.
Find further advice on GCSE consideration .
Yes, Oxford University welcomes applications from home educated students.
Your child will still need to meet our entrance requirements for their application to be considered, and so would need to be taking A-levels or another accepted equivalent .
Find further advice for home educated applicants .
Not necessarily; three A-levels is absolutely sufficient to make a competitive application.
A candidate who has had time to read around their chosen subject(s) will generally be more appealing than a candidate who may have taken more subjects, but who is not able to discuss their interests with any enthusiasm or in any depth.
Find further advice on taking additional A-levels .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/applying-to-oxford/care-experienced-students:
We understand that as a care experienced student, you are likely facing complicated, ongoing challenges that may make applying for university feel like a particularly daunting task.
The University of Oxford is keen to support you throughout this process, from before you apply to helping you communicate your educational journey on your application.
If you need to travel to Oxford for interview, we are committed to covering your travel as well as other costs.
All food and accommodation is free if you need to stay longer than a few hours.
The information outlined here covers some of the application guidance and support that is specific to care experienced students.
Visit the University’s Application Guide for more general information on the application process.
In order to ensure you get the support available to you as a care experienced student, please let us know as soon as possible by indicating on your UCAS application that you’ve spent time in care.
The earlier we know about your particular requirements, the sooner we can begin to meet them.
Understanding your experience in care will also help us consider your application fairly, alongside other important data which puts your achievements in context, and which we gather for all students from the UK.
Keep in mind that we will consider the wider context of surrounding your application regardless of your age, so if you are considering a return to education, we would still like to know about any time you spent in care.
Read about how we use this contextual data and what factors we consider.
In addition to telling us about your care experience on your UCAS application, we would like you to tell us about anything that will help us to see the bigger picture around your application.
It would help if you include information about any disruptions to your education or other unique circumstances in your personal statement.
Alternatively ask your teacher to include these details in your reference, or contact the college that you have applied to directly.
If you’re not sure what information might be relevant or how you should share it with us, please contact [email protected] for confidential advice and guidance.
We understand that many care experienced students face disruptions to their studies or changes of school, and that your educational background might be unusual.
Although many of our UK applicants are taking A-levels, we also accept a wide range of other equivalent qualifications .
Above all, we want to see that you have the skills and aptitudes necessary to enjoy your course, and your qualifications help provide evidence of your academic potential.
If you are unsure how your particular qualifications would be viewed, please contact the subject department that you would like to apply to for further guidance.
Many courses require admissions tests as part of the application process.
Usually, you will sit these tests at your school or college, but you can also attend an open centre.
For care experienced students, your local authority will be able to cover any cost of your admissions test registration.
For more information, contact your personal adviser.
If your application is shortlisted, you will be invited to interview .
We understand that even after submitting your Oxford application, you may continue to face challenges to your educational path that make it difficult to thrive at your interview or to show your full potential at exam time.
If you have encountered difficulties at any point along the application process that you think we should be aware of, we suggest directly contacting the college that you have applied to.
If you are offered a place at Oxford, we recommend getting in touch with your college as early as possible to start discussing what support may be available to you.
This may include access to year-round accommodation, a possible early move-in date, or connecting with a current student mentor or other pastoral support.
As a UK student with care experience, you would be given priority consideration for Oxford’s UNIQ programme .
This programme is open to students studying in their first year of further education, who are based at UK state schools or colleges.
Students make a single application between December and January.
It is free to take part, and gives you a fantastic chance to learn more about life as an Oxford student, and offers lots of admissions advice, so you can make a competitive application to any university.
The University’s Open Days are another excellent way to explore Oxford, including opportunities to tour colleges, chat with current students, and learn more about the course you’re considering.
Magdalen College hosts a care experienced and estranged students talk - please consult our college timetables page or visit the Magdalen College website for more information.
If you are attending the Open Days and would like to speak to someone specifically about applying as a care experienced student, or are unable to attend the Open Days but would like to visit at another time, please contact [email protected] for further information.
Visit our Increasing Access pages for information on other events for prospective students, online, in Oxford and around the UK.
Like UNIQ, many of the events listed here will offer priority consideration or additional funding for students with care experience.
The University offers generous financial support for care experienced students, including through the Crankstart Scholarship .
In order to be considered for this support you will need to:
Once we have this information, we will follow up with you about the financial support that you are eligible to receive, including the Crankstart Scholarship, Care Experienced and Estranged Student Bursary, and the Oxford Travel Supplement.
The collegiate system at Oxford allows a unique, tailored support network for all of our students.
Each undergraduate student is assigned a college tutor who oversees your academic progress throughout your degree and with whom you can discuss any concerns you may have.
Your college support extends beyond your academic success, supporting you with a welfare team made up of medical staff, such as the college nurse and doctor, and trained support staff, who will provide pastoral support and can advise on academic, financial or welfare issues.
Discover more about Oxford Colleges .
Student Peer Supporters are available in colleges and departments to talk informally about anything that is concerning you.
Peer Supporters are carefully selected and trained and receive support and supervision from the University Counselling Service.
Further support is available through the University’s Counselling Service , which provides free individual and group counselling sessions, as well as workshops and general advice.
The Disability Advisory Service supports students with disabilities, including specific learning difficulties, mobility or sensory impairments and mental and physical long-term health conditions.
You can read more about applying as a disabled student and the additional support available.
One of your main concerns may be the possibility of securing year-round accommodation if you have nowhere to go during the vacation.
Your college can help with this and work with you to organise other support, such as an early move in date or a place to store your belongings when you’re away.
If you have questions about your particular circumstances or what support may be available, please contact the colleges you are interested in applying to.
We understand that the experiences and support requirements of care experienced students vary widely, and you may, therefore, have questions about your own unique circumstances.
UCAS ‘How to’ video for care leavers
UCAS Care Leavers Guide
Propel
Become Higher Education Pamphlet
National Network for the Education of Care Leavers
IMO Hub
'My tips would be to tick the box on the UCAS form, and utilise any support you can access.
Get in touch with the college you apply to quickly, so you know where the support is coming from before results day.' - Bryony
'I never believed that studying at Oxford would be possible until I came here, and now being at university has been the best time of my life.
There no harm in trying, because it might just work out better than you ever imagined.' - Lucy

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/increasing-access:
Find out more about our access programme for UK state school students
Deciding whether or not to go to university is a big decision for everyone, but especially if you don't know people who have been, or if you haven't had a chance to find out what it might be like.
Perhaps you are concerned that you might not fit in or share common ground with other students?
We know that some exceptionally clever and talented students don't think that Oxford is for them - and we want that to change.
So you can feel confident about deciding whether to apply, Oxford runs thousands of free events and programmes every year.
These give potential applicants like you a chance to learn about student life as well as equipping you to submit a strong UCAS application.
As part of our commitment to widening access, Oxford's colleges are developing their regional outreach .
By forming Oxford for UK regions and working together, groups of colleges hope to help more local students from backgrounds which are currently under-represented to make successful applications to Oxford.
You can also find out more about individual college outreach via this tab on college pages.
Some of our outreach and access events and opportunities can be booked directly by individual students, while others may need to be arranged by teachers and are typically designed for school groups.
Learn more about our new outreach programme for 14-16 year old UK state school students from groups who are currently under-represented among Oxford undergraduates.
Find out more about our free outreach programme for UK state school students in their first year of further education - so in Year 12 or equivalent.
Opportunity Oxford is an academic programme that helps to prepare talented UK offer-holders from under-represented backgrounds for successful student careers at our university.
Catch up on all the recorded livestreams now
Groups of our colleges have formed Oxford for UK  to support our work in local communities, particularly with those currently under-represented in higher education.
Find out what is happening in your region now.
Sign up to our Choosing Oxford newsletter You can receive step-by-step support with your application throughout the year.
Join the UNIQ mailing list Receive more information about the programme and reminders when applications go live.
View our undergraduate outreach privacy policy in full.
If you are a current Oxford student and would like to help with our access programmes you can apply to be a Student Ambassador .
FAQs - Increasing access

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/increasing-access/foundation-year:
Please visit the Astrophoria Foundation Year website for more information and content relating to this programme.
Oxford University is committed to improving opportunities for talented students from all backgrounds to be able to access its exceptional education.
Oxford's Astrophoria Foundation Year is one of our range of initiatives aimed at increasing access to Oxford for students from under-represented backgrounds.
The Astrophoria Foundation Year is a one-year foundation programme for UK state school students.
It is aimed at those with significant academic potential, who have experienced severe personal disadvantage or disrupted education which has resulted in them being unable to apply directly for an Oxford undergraduate degree programme.
The programme enables motivated students to reach their academic potential through a supportive and challenging academic course aimed at developing their skills, self-belief and academic confidence.
">Video of Astrophoria Foundation Year - in 2 minutes
The programme will support students financially.
Just like undergraduate students, Oxford’s Foundation Year students will belong to an Oxford college, but their accommodation will be provided free of charge.
Students will not have to pay course fees and will receive a non-repayable bursary to cover living costs.
Up to 50 places will be offered on the programme each year.
Students will apply for their chosen degree course with a foundation year (for example Materials Science with Foundation Year).
During the foundation year they will follow one of four courses:
Successful applicants for Oxford's foundation year will be allocated to a college at the offer stage.
They will be admitted to participating Oxford colleges and will be a fully integrated member of their college community with all of the benefits this includes.
All applicants for 2025 entry to our Astrophoria Foundation Year courses must apply via UCAS by 29 January 2025 6pm UK time.
By the end of the foundation year, students are expected to have developed the skills and confidence to meet the challenges of a demanding undergraduate degree.
On condition that they have completed their foundation year at the required level, they will progress onto the undergraduate degree course at the University of Oxford, if they wish to, without the need to re-apply.
Alternatively, they will be awarded a nationally recognised Certificate in Higher Education (CertHE) and will be supported in their applications to undergraduate degrees elsewhere.
The programme is open to UK state school students who are eligible for Home Fees status and meet the eligibility criteria.
International students are not eligible to apply.
To join the Astrophoria Foundation Year mailing list to hear more about the programme please complete the sign up form .
Please check out the FAQ page on the Astrophoria Foundation Year website.
If you have any further questions about the foundation year, please get in touch at [email protected] .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/increasing-access/events-calendar:
Submit your next Oxford Outreach event (University outreach staff only).
In addition to these outreach events, many colleges and departments also run academic competitions for schools and colleges .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/oxfordforUK:
Oxford for UK
As part of our commitment to widening access, Oxford's colleges are developing their regional outreach.
While continuing to offer support to schools and colleges within their linked local authority areas (see below), they will be prioritising helping the local communities currently under-represented in higher education.
By forming Oxford for UK regions and working together, these groups of our colleges hope to help more local students from backgrounds which are currently under-represented to make successful applications to Oxford.
Evidence-based and tailored to the character and requirements of particular regions, Oxford for UK also helps the University to ensure that regional priorities are considered in the design and delivery of national outreach programmes.
Each Oxford for UK region has a website showing the resources available to local students, their families and teachers.
It gives details of the outreach activities Oxford colleges run in your region and in Oxford.
Please note that getting in touch with a college linked to your region has no influence on students’ chances of being accepted to this or any other college.
You are very welcome to get in touch with any college for advice about applying or studying here.
Oxford for East England brings together three Oxford colleges, with links to the following areas:
Oxford for East Midlands brings together three Oxford colleges, with links to the following areas:
Oxford for North East brings together three colleges with links across the region:
The local authorities supported by Oxford for North East are:
Darlington, Durham, Gateshead, Hartlepool, Middlesbrough, Newcastle upon Tyne, North Tyneside, Northumberland, Redcar and Cleveland, South Tyneside, Stockton on Tees and Sunderland.
Oxford for North West brings together four Oxford colleges, with links to the following areas:
Oxford for Northern Ireland is currently supported by the University’s Undergraduate Admissions and Outreach team and Brasenose College .
Oxford for Scotland is coordinated by the University’s Undergraduate Admissions and Outreach team and is supported by a number of Oxford colleges and departments.
The local authorities supported by Oxford for Scotland are:
Aberdeen City, Aberdeenshire, Angus, Argyll and Bute, Edinburgh City, Clackmannanshire, Dumfries and Galloway, Dundee City, East Ayrshire, East Dunbartonshire, East Lothian, East Renfrewshire, Falkirk, Fife, Glasgow City, Highlands, Inverclyde, Midlothian, Moray, Comhairle nan Eilean Siar (Western Isles), North Ayrshire, North Lanarkshire, Orkney Islands, Perth & Kinross, Renfrewshire, Scottish Borders, Shetland Islands, South Ayrshire, South Lanarkshire, Stirling, West Dunbartonshire and West Lothian.
Oxford for South East brings together four Oxford colleges, with links to the following areas:
Hertford College will continue working with schools in the Medway local authority, alongside their work in the East of England.
Schools in the Thames Valley will continue to be supported by
Oxford for South West brings together three Oxford colleges, with links to the following areas:
Mae'r wefan hon hefyd ar gael yn y Gymraeg.
Oxford for Wales brings together three Oxford colleges with links across the region:
The local authorities supported by Oxford for Wales are:
Blaenau Gwent, Bridgend, Caerphilly, Cardiff, Carmarthenshire, Ceredigion, Conwy, Denbighshire, Flintshire, Gwynedd, Isle of Anglesey, Merthyr Tydfil, Monmouthshire, Neath Port Talbot, Newport, Pembrokeshire, Powys, Rhondda Cynon Taf, Swansea, Torfaen, Vale of Glamorgan and Wrexham.
Oxford for West Midlands brings together three Oxford colleges, with links to the following areas:
Oxford for Yorkshire and the Humber brings together four Oxford colleges, with links to the following areas:
The Oxford for London website gives an overview of the London outreach provided by colleges and highlights additional online resources and projects that students can access directly.
To identify the college linked to your school, please select your local authority from the following list:
Barking and Dagenham , Barnet , Bexley , Brent , Bromley , Camden , City of London , Croydon , Ealing , Enfield , Greenwich , Hackney , Hammersmith and Fulham , Haringey , Harrow , Havering , Hillingdon , Hounslow , Islington , Kensington and Chelsea , Kingston upon Thames , Lambeth , Lewisham , Merton , Newham , Redbridge , Richmond upon Thames , Southwark , Sutton , Tower Hamlets , Waltham Forest , Wandsworth , Westminster
Oxford for Oxford brings together the activities and resources hosted by Oxford University to local Oxford schools, teachers, students and families.
Trinity College is linked with schools in Oxfordshire as a first point of contact, but Oxford for Oxford encompasses the full range of activity offered by Oxford University, including:

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/increasing-access/ug-digital-resources:
They can help parents and teachers to feed the curiosity of growing minds and inspire them to think broadly.
These resources can also enable older students to explore their passions and interests further, and to discover more about Oxford.
A range of digital learning tools for stimulating imagination
Digital resources to feed curiosity and provoke thought
Resources to help explore subjects, follow passions and find out more about Oxford
Advice and guidance for teachers
Guidance and support for families
Big questions to stretch curious minds
Discover more events and opportunities listed in our outreach calendar .
FAQs - Learning resources

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/open-days-and-visits/planning-your-open-day-visit:
We know that many of you will be travelling long distances and taking time off school or work to come to our Open Days and we want to help you make the most of your time in Oxford.
The tips below answer any questions you might have about attending!
There is so much to see and do on Open Days that we recommend you arrive early (first events start from 08:00) and be prepared to spend a full day in Oxford (last events end at 18:00).
Remember, there is no central campus in Oxford so you’ll need time to walk between venues.
Our Open Days attract lots of visitors so you need to allow plenty of time to travel– we recommend adding up to one hour to the usual journey time.
As some events fill up quickly, we’d encourage you to arrive early.
Please read our travel advice for more information.
Whether you need guidance on choosing which colleges to visit or tips on how to pick a course, our Open Days newsletters provide you with everything you need to make the most of an Open Day.
We’d recommend reading about the Oxford application process before you come to Oxford.
This will enable you to know which questions you haven’t been able to find an answer to.
We hope you find all the information you need at the departments and colleges, but if you have any more questions, the admissions staff at the Open Day Information Centre will be more than happy to chat.
Choosing a course is a really important decision and as departments are not normally open to visitors, we’d recommend focusing on this first.
A good idea is to read about the courses you’re interested in before you come to Oxford and then work out which events to attend at which department.
Most sessions don’t need booking but make sure you turn up early as they can get very busy.
The most popular question on Open Days is ‘which college should I visit?’ Visiting any of the colleges will give you a good idea how the college system in Oxford works and you won’t have time to visit them all!
We’d recommend drawing up a shortlist before you come: first check which colleges offer your course and then use our advice on how to choose a college .
Oxford offers generous financial support , with 1 in 4 UK students in receipt of a bursary.
You can pick up information about these scholarships and bursaries at most colleges and departments.
If you have specific questions, the Fees and Funding staff will be at the Open Day Information Centre on the High Street.
Lots of students apply to a course with a career in mind, but it’s important to realise careers are not always linked to the degrees you would expect.
Why not ask staff about what former students are doing now; or ask students about their future plans?
If you have a specific question about the support we offer, you can visit the Careers Service staff at the Open Day Information Centre on the High Street, or at the Careers Service on Banbury Road.
Lots of prospective students come to Open Days with their family, friends or in school groups.
If you’re visiting with your friends or school, be aware you will need to split up unless you are interested in the same course.
If events are particularly busy, family members may be asked to give up their place for prospective students.
However, there are many events specifically tailored to parents and carers.
If you are lucky enough to stay in Oxford the night before the Open Days (maybe even in an Oxford college), make the most of it by sampling student life by heading out to a café or maybe catching a show at the Oxford Playhouse .
Don't stay out too late though, because being first in the city means you can get ahead of the crowds.
If you really can't manage to spend a whole day in Oxford, we encourage you to prioritise learning all you can about your course.
Find your way around using our Open Day map .
For those travelling in by train, our time lapse video provides a route from the station into the city centre.
Ending up at the Open Day Information Centre at the Examination Schools, the leisurely 20-minute stroll takes you past a handful of iconic Oxford landmarks - as well as colleges and departments which you may want to explore during your visit.
">Video of Find your way: Train station to the Examination schools (Open Day information centre)
From the Open Day Information Centre at the Examination Schools, there are four further suggested routes to locations across the city which will take you past other college and department buildings:
">Video of Find your way - Examination Schools to Medical Sciences
">Video of Find your way - Examination Schools to the English and Law Faculties
">Video of Find your way - Examination Schools to Maths Department
">Video of Find your way - Examination Schools to the University Science Area

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/open-days-and-visits/department-timetables:
Oxford students are not only members of a college, but also members of a department with access to libraries and facilities.
Depending on the course you choose, you would usually have your lectures and do any laboratory work in your department with students from other colleges.
Open Days offer a rare opportunity to visit departments and meet tutors and current students as well as attend events.
On this page are the department programmes for the September 2025 Open Day.
If events become full, priority is given to prospective students.
An updated map will be published soon.
Expand all
Where: School of Archaeology, 1 South Parks Road, OX1 3TG Map reference: C4 When: 09:30–15:00 09:30–14:00: Meet the students 11:00–11:30: Taster lecture 14:00–15:00: Admissions talk/Q&A 15:00–15:30: Student-led tours of the Pitt Rivers Museum Archaeology and Anthropology open days
Where: Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies, Pusey Lane, OX1 2LE Map reference: B5 When: 10:00–12:00 10: 00 –10:30: Asian and Middle Eastern Studies at Oxford talk (book via the Faculty website ) 10:30– 11:30: Meet the tutors (visit the Faculty website for further information on participating subject groups) 11:30–12:00: Meet the students Asian and Middle Eastern Studies open days
Where: Department of Biochemistry, Dorothy Crowfoot Hodgkin Building, South Parks Road, OX1 3QU (entrance from Sherrington Road) Map reference: C4 When: 10:00–15:00 10:00–10:45, 10:30–11:15, 11:00–11:45 and 11:30–12:15: Biochemistry at Oxford talk 10:30–12:00: Meet the tutors & students (drop-in) 14:00–14:45: Meet the tutors (Q&A) Café open to the public
Where: Online 10:00 –10:45: Biochemistry at Oxford talk 14:00–14:45: Meet the tutors Q&A Biochemistry open days
Where: Life and Mind Building, South Parks Road, OX1 3PS Map reference: D4 When: 09:00–12:30 09:00–10:45: Meet the tutors & students (plus open lab) 10:45–11:45: Biology at Oxford talk 11:55–12:25: Demonstration interview Biology open days
Where: Sherrington Building, Parks Road, OX1 3PT Map reference: C4 When: 09:45–14:00 10:30 – 11:00: Biomedical Sciences at Oxford talk 11:00 – 11:30: Admissions talk/Q&A Biomedical Sciences open days
Where: Chemistry Teaching Laboratory, OX1 3PS (access from Mansfield Road, opposite Mansfield College) Map reference: D4 When: 09:45–16:00 Tours, meet the tutors and students throughout
Where: Inorganic Chemistry Laboratory Lecture Theatre, South Parks Road, OX1 3QR Map reference: C4 10:15–11:00, 11:15 – 12:00 and 14:30–15:15: Chemistry at Oxford and admissions talk Where: Online 10:15–11:00, 11:15 – 12:00 and 14:30–15:15 : Chemistry at Oxford and admissions talk Chemistry open days
Including Classical Archaeology and Ancient History, Ancient and Modern History, Classics and English, Classics and Modern Languages, Classics and Asian and Middle Eastern Studies Where: Ioannou Centre for Classical and Byzantine Studies, 66 St Giles’, OX1 3LU Map reference: B5 When: 09:45–13:00 10:00–11:00: Admissions talk/Q&A 11:00–11:30 and 11:30 – 12:00: Taster lectures 12:00–13:00: Meet the tutors and students Classics open days
Where: Department of Computer Science, Wolfson Building, OX1 3QD (entrance at 7 Keble Road) Map reference: B4 When: 09:00–17:00 Meet the students throughout 09:00–09:45, 10:45 – 11:30, 14:30–15:15 and 16:15 – 17:00: Computer Science at Oxford talk 10:00 – 10:30 and 15:30 – 16:00: Demonstration interview 10:00–10:30: Taster lecture 10:45–11:30: Computer Science and Philosophy at Oxford 11:30 – 12:00 and 14:00 – 14:30: Meet the tutors Please note that priority for entry to sessions will be given to prospective students, but guests are welcome to attend where space allows.
Computer Science open days
Where: Department of Earth Sciences, South Parks Road, OX1 3AN Map reference: C4 When: 09:30–16:00 10:00 – 12:00 and 14:30–16:00: Displays, demonstrations and student-led tours 10:00–10:30 and 14:30 – 15:00 : Earth Sciences at Oxford talk 10:30-11:00: Families and supporters talk/Q&A 10:30 – 11:00 and 15:00 – 15:30 : Admissions talk/Q&A 11:00–11:30: Taster lectures Earth Sciences open days
Where: Main Building, Saïd Business School, Park End Street, OX1 1HP Map reference: A5 When: 08:15–12:00 Tours throughout 08:15 – 09:30 and 10:00 –11:00 : Refreshments 09:30 –10:30 and 11:00 –12:00 : Teachers talk/Q&A Economics and Management open days
Where: Thom Building, Department of Engineering Science, Parks Road, OX1 3PJ Map reference: B4 When: 09:30–16:30 (closed 12:30-13:30) Self-guided tours throughout 09:30 – 12:30 and 13:30 – 16:30: Lab demonstrations 09:30 – 12:30 and 13:30 – 16:30: Admissions Q&A (drop-in) 10:00 – 10:30 and 15:15 – 15:45: Families and supporters talk/Q&A 10:00 – 10:30 and 15:15 – 15:45: Meet the students Q&A 10:30 – 12:30 and 13:30 – 15:15: Taster lectures Engineering Science open days
Including all English joint courses Where: Faculty of English Language & Literature, St Cross Building, OX1 3UL Map reference: D4 When: 09:20–16:00 10:00–10:30 and 10:40–11:10: Taster lectures 11:20–12:00 and 14:30 – 15:10: English at Oxford talk 15:20–16:00: Joint courses Q&A English Language and Literature open days
Where: Ruskin School of Art, 128 Bullingdon Road, OX4 1QP Fine Art open days
Where: School of Geography and the Environment, Oxford University Centre for the Environment, South Parks Road, OX1 3QY Map reference: C4 When: 10:00–15:00 Drop-in Q&A with staff and current students throughout 10:30–11:30 : Geography at Oxford talk/Q&A Geography open days
Including all History joint courses Where: Open Day Information Centre, Examination Schools, 75–81 High Street, OX1 4BG Map reference : D6 When: 09:00–13:00 09:00–09:45 and 11:00 – 13:00 : Meet the students and staff (drop-in) 09:45–11:00: History at Oxford talk and taster lecture ( prospective students only ) History open days
There are no Open Day events taking place on 19 September for this course.
Further information about the course and department can be found on the History of Art website.
Where: Institute of Human Sciences, The Pauling Centre, 58a Banbury Road, OX2 6QS Map reference: B2 When: 10:00–17:00 Tours and refreshments available throughout 10:00–11:00: Human Sciences at Oxford and admissions talk 11:00–12:00: Taster lecture Human Sciences open days
Where: Law Faculty, St Cross Building, St Cross Road, OX1 3UL (access from corner of Manor Road and St Cross Road) Map reference: D4 When: 10:00–16:00 10:00 – 10:45 and 15:30 – 16:15: Taster lectures 11:15 – 12:00 and 14:30 – 15:15: Law at Oxford talk Information about Bodleian Law Library tours can be found on the Museums, Libraries and other venues page .
Law open days
Where: Hume–Rothery Building, Department of Materials, 16 Parks Road, OX1 3PH Map reference: B3 When: 09:00–15:00 09:10–09:55: Taster lecture 10:00–11:00 and 11:30–12:00: Department tours (booking required on the day; prospective students only) 11:00–11:30: Materials Science at Oxford talk 11:30–12:00: Meet the tutors and students Materials Science open days
Where: Andrew Wiles Building, Radcliffe Observatory Quarter, Woodstock Road, OX2 6GG Map reference: B3 When: 10:00–14:00 10:00–10:30 and 11:30–12:00 : Mathematics / Mathematics and Statistics at Oxford talk 10:30 – 11:00: Taster lecture 11:00–11:30 : Mathematics and Philosophy at Oxford talk Mathematics open days
Where: Medical Sciences Teaching Centre, South Parks Road, OX1 3PL Map reference: D4 When: 09:30–12:30 and 14:00–16:30 Tours available throughout 10:15–10:55 and 14:45 –15:25 : Medicine at Oxford and admissions talk 11:00–11:25 and 15:30–15:55: Demonstration interview 11:30–12:00 and 16:00-16:25: Meet the students Please note that all sessions (including tours) are limited to prospective students and teachers only due to limited space.
Medicine open days
Where: Taylor Institution, St Giles’, OX1 3NA Map reference: B5 When: 09:30–12:30 (except tours - see below) 10:00–12:30: Modern Languages at Oxford drop-in (full programme available via Modern Languages website ) 09:30 , 12:35, 14:15 and 14:45: Library tours (20 minutes; maximum 15 people per tour, allocated on a first come, first served basis) Modern Languages open days
Where: Open Day Information Centre, Examination Schools, 75–81 High Street, OX1 4BG Map reference : D6 When: 09:45–16:00 10:00–10:45: Music at Oxford talk 10:45–11:30: Meet the students 11:30–12:00: Taster lecture Music open days
You can study Philosophy at Oxford only in conjunction with another subject or other subjects: Classics, Computer Science, Linguistics (as part of PPL – see Psychology), Mathematics, Modern Languages, Politics and Economics (PPE), Physics, Psychology (as part of PPL), or Theology and Religion.
Please visit the Open Day events for these other subjects to find out about joint honours courses involving Philosophy.
Philosophy open days
Where: Manor Road Building, Manor Road, OX1 3UQ Map reference: E4 When: 10:00–16:00 Information desk staffed by tutors and students throughout 10:00–10:45, 11:00–11:45, 14:45–15:30 and 15:45–16:30: PPE at Oxford talk (booking required via PPE Eventbrite page ) Philosophy, Politics and Economics open days
Where: Martin Wood Complex, Parks Road, OX1 3PU Map reference: C4 When: 10:00–16:00 Self-guided tours of the teaching laboratories throughout 10:15–11:15 and 15:00–16:00: Admissions talk/Q&A 11:30–12:30: Physics Admissions Test (PAT) talk 12:30–13:30 and 14:00–15:00 : Families, supporters and teachers talk 14:00–15:00: Taster lecture Physics open days
Including Psychology, Philosophy and Linguistics (PPL) Where: Life and Mind Building, South Parks Road, OX1 3PS Map reference: D4 When: 10:00–16:00 10:00–10:30 and 14:30–15:00: Psychology at Oxford talk 10:30–11:15: Meet the tutors and students 11:15–11:45: Psychology, Philosophy and Linguistics (PPL) at Oxford talk 11:45–14:30: Admissions drop-in 15:00–16:00: Student presentations and Q&A Psychology open days
Where: Philosophy and Theology Faculties Library, Radcliffe Observatory Quarter, Woodstock Road, OX2 6GG Map reference: B4 When: 09:30–15:50 10:00–11:00: Theology and Religion at Oxford talk 11:00–12.00: Taster lecture 14:30 –15:30 : Taster session (visit the Faculty website for details) 14:30–15:30: Families, supporters and teachers talk Theology and Religion open days
‘This course’ at Oxford talk: These talks will include information about the content of the course and the way it is taught and assessed.
Unless a separate admissions talk is offered, they will also cover the specific admissions process for that course.
Admissions talk/Q&A: These talks will cover the application process and what factors admissions tutors take into account during the selection process.
At a department, the admissions advice will be specific to the course, and will usually cover topics like admissions tests and written work.
Meet the tutors: Meet tutors in your chosen subject, and ask them questions about the course in an informal setting.
Meet the students: Speak to current students, who will be able to answer questions on student life, provide information about their college or course and share their experiences.
Families, supporters and/or teachers talk/Q&A: These often run alongside events which are only available to prospective students.
They will offer advice on how best to support an applicant, and will usually provide an opportunity to ask questions.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/open-days-and-visits/college-timetables:
Visiting colleges is a great way to get an understanding of what sets Oxford apart from other universities.
On this page are the college programmes for the September 2025 Open Day.
Where: Broad Street, OX1 3BJ Map reference: C5 When : 09:00–17:30 Student-led tours every half hour 11:00–12:00: Admissions talk/Q&A 12:00–15:30: Subject sessions ( visit Balliol College website ) Balliol College website
Where: Radcliffe Square, OX1 4AJ Map reference: C5 When: 09:00–17:00 Student-led tours and 'Meet the students' throughout 11:00–12:00: Life at Brasenose College talk 12:00 - 16:00: Meet the tutors ( visit Brasenose College website for times ) Brasenose College website
Where: St Aldates, OX1 1DP Map reference: C6 When: 09:00–16:30 Student-led tours and refreshments from 10:00 09:00–10:00: P ersonal statement workshop 09:00–10:00, 12:30 –13:30 and 13:45–14:45 : Families and supporters talk 11:00–12:00: Teachers' talk: how to support your applicants 12:30–13:30: Admissions talk with demonstration interview (Sciences) 13:45–14:45: Admissions talk with demonstration interview (Humanities and Social sciences) 13:45–14:45: Subject sessions and meet the tutors (Sciences) 15:00–16:00: Subject sessions and meet the tutors (Humanities and Social Sciences) Christ Church website
Where: Merton Street, OX1 4JF When: 09:30–17:00 Map reference: C6 Student-led tours throughout 12:30 – 14:00: Lunch (first come, first served) 13:15 – 14:00: Demonstration interviews (Humanities and Sciences) 14:00 – 15:00: Meet the tutors ( see Corpus Christi College website for details ) Corpus Christi College website
Where: Turl Street, OX1 3DP Map reference: C5 When: 09:00–17:00 Student-led tours throughout 09:00–09:45: Admissions talk/Q&A 13:00–14:00: Life at Exeter talk 14:00–15:30: Afternoon tea in the garden Exeter College website
Where: Mansfield Road, OX1 3TD Map reference: D5 When: 09:00–17:00 Student-led tours from 10:00–16:00 13:00–13:45: Lunch (booking required, please visit Harris Manchester College website ) 14:00–16:00: Meet the admissions tutor Accepting mature students only, no school leavers.
Harris Manchester College website
Where: New Buildings Quad, Catte Street, OX1 3BW Map reference: C5 When: 10:00–17:00 Student-led tours throughout 12:30–13:00 and 13:15–13:45: Subject sessions ( visit Hertford College website ) 12:30 –13:00 and 13:15–13:45 : Families and supporters talks 15:00–15:45: Demonstration interviews (Humanities and Sciences) Hertford College website
Where: Turl Street, OX1 3DW Map reference: C5 When: 09:30–17:00 Student-led tours throughout 13:00 – 15:00: Meet the tutors ( visit Jesus College website ) Jesus College website
Where: Parks Road, OX1 3PG Map reference: C4 When: 09:00–17:00 Student-led tours until 16:30 10:00 –15:00: Accommodation drop-in 11:00–12 :00 and 14:00–15 :00 : Disability & student support drop-ins 13:15 – 14:15: Admissions talk/Q&A Keble College website
Where: Norham Gardens, OX2 6QA Map reference: C2 When: 09:30–18:00 Student-led tours throughout 10:00 – 11:00: Admissions drop-in/Q&A 13:00 – 14:00: Meet the tutors 14:00 – 16:30: Afternoon tea (further information available via Lady Margaret Hall website ) 14:15 – 15:00: Demonstration interviews (Humanities and Sciences) 15:00 – 16:00: Admissions talk/Q&A 16:00 – 17:00: Life as a Muslim student at Oxford Q&A 17:00 – 18:00: Get the scoop on LMH (free ice-cream) Lady Margaret Hall website
Where: Turl Street, OX1 3DR Map reference: C6 When: 09:00–17:00 Student-led tours throughout and r efreshments from 09:00 until 16:00 12:00-13:45: Free sandwich lunch 12:30 – 13:00: Admissions talk/Q&A* 13:15 – 14:00: Meet the tutors* 13:15 – 14:00: Families and supporters talk/Q&A* 14:15 – 15:00: Demonstration interview* *Please book sessions via the Lincoln College website Lincoln College website
Where: High Street, OX1 4AU (use Longwall Street entrance) Map reference: D5 When: 09:30–16:30 Student-led tours throughout 12:30–13:00: Life at Magdalen talk 13:15–14:00: Admissions talk/Q&A (Humanities) 14:15–15:00: Admissions talk/Q&A (Sciences) 15:15–15:45: Demonstration interview (subject tbc) 16:00–17:00: Care-experienced and estranged students talk (further information and registration via Magdalen webform ) Magdalen College website
Where: Mansfield Road, OX1 3TF Map reference: D4 When: 09:00 – 17:00 Student-led tours throughout 09:00 – 09:45: Admissions talk/Q&A and demonstration interview 12:00 – 12:45: Lunch (book via Mansfield College website ) 13:00 – 13:30: Demonstration interviews (Physics, Theology) 13:00 – 14:00 : Demonstration interview (Materials Science) 14:00 – 14:30 : Demonstration interviews (Geography, Law) 15:00 – 15:30 : Demonstration interview (History) Mansfield College website
Where: Merton Street, OX1 4JD Map reference: D6 When: 09:30–17:00 Student-led tours and refreshments throughout 10:00 – 10:30: Life at Merton talk 12:00 – 12:45: Free sandwich lunch 13:15 – 14:00: Subject sessions 13:15 – 14:00: Families, supporters and teachers talk/Q&A 14:15 – 14:45: Demonstration interviews Merton College website
Where: Holywell Street, OX1 3BN (use New College Lane entrance) Map reference: D5 When: 10:00–16:00 Student-led tours throughout Meet the Tutors sessions - times and subjects tbc New College website
Where: Oriel Street, OX1 4EW Map reference: C6 When: 09:00–17:00 Student-led tours from 10:00 – 12:00 and 14:30 – 17:00 09:00–09:45 and 12:30–13:15 : Admissions talk/Q&A* 13:30–14:30: Meet the tutors* (prospective students only; refreshments available for guests) *Please book via Oriel College website .
Oriel College website
Where: Pembroke Square, OX1 1DW Map reference: C6 When: 09:30–17:00 Student-led tours throughout until 16:30 13:00 – 17:00: Meet the tutors (drop-in) Pembroke College website
Where: High Street, OX1 4AW Map reference: D6 When: 09:00–16:30 Student-led tours throughout 09:15–09:45: Life at Queen's talk 13:30–14:15: Meet the tutors (Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences) 14:30–15:15: Meet the tutors (Maths and Sciences) 15:30–16:30: Admissions talk/Q&A Queen's College website
Where: Pusey Street, OX1 2LB Map reference: B4 When: 09:00–17:00 Student-led tours and library exhibition throughout until 16:00 13:00 – 16:00: Meet the tutors 13:00 – 16:00: Meet the College tortoise 14:00 – 15:00: Demonstration interviews 14:00 – 16:00: Refreshments: tea, coffee and ice cream 16:00 – 17:00: Meet the tutors – quiet hour (booking required, email [email protected] ) Regent's Park College website
Where: Woodstock Road, OX2 6HS Map reference: B3 When: 08:00–17:00 Student-led tours throughout 08:00–09:45: Free coffee and pastries 12:30–13:15: Free buffet lunch 12:45–13:30: LGBTQ+ talk about life at St Anne's 13:30 – 14:30: Meet the tutors 13:15 – 14:15: Families and supporters talk/Q&A 14:30–16:00: Free coffee and cake 14:45 – 15:30: Demonstration interview St Anne's College website
Where: Manor Road, OX1 3UJ Map reference: E4 When: 09:00–18:00 Student-led tours throughout 09:10–09:40: Meet the students 12:15–13:00: Meet the tutors 12:30–13:00: Families, supporters and teachers talk/Q&A 14:45-15:30: Teachers talk/Q&A (book via St Catherine's College website ) 15:15-15:45: Subject sessions (book via St Catherine's College website ) 15:15–15:45: Meet the students 16:00–16:45: Admissions talk/Q&A St Catherine's College website
Where: Queen’s Lane, OX1 4AR Map reference: D6 When: 09:30–16:30 Student-led tours throughout 14:00 – 15:30: Meet the tutors (drop-in, with refreshments) St Edmund Hall website
Where: Cowley Place, OX4 1DY Map reference: E7 When: 08:30–16:30 Student-led tours throughout 13:30–14:30: Meet the tutors 14:30–15:30: Admissions talk/Q&A 15:30 –16:30: Demonstration interview St Hilda's College website
Where: St Margaret’s Road, OX2 6LE Map reference: B2 When: 09:00–18:00 Student-led tours throughout 09:00 – 09:30: Life at St Hugh's talk (with refreshments) 12:00 – 14:30: Lunch 12:30 – 13:30: Admissions talk/Q&A (personal statement) 12:30 – 13:30: Families, supporters and teachers talk 13:30 – 14:00: Meet the tutors 14:15 – 15:00: Admissions talk/Q&A (admissions tests) 15:15-16:00: Demonstration interview 17:00 – 18:00: Tea and cake St Hugh's College website
Where: St Giles’, OX1 3JP Map reference: C5 When: 10:00–17:00 Student-led tours throughout 14:00 – 15:00: Meet the tutors (Maths, Medicine and Sciences) 15:00–16:00: Meet the tutors (Humanities, Arts and Social Sciences) St John's College website
Where: New Inn Hall Street, OX1 2DL Map reference: B6 When: 08:00–17:00 Student-led tours throughout 08:00–09:00: Breakfast 09:00 –09 :45: Admissions talk/Q&A 12:30 –13:30: Demonstration interview (Sciences) 12:30 –13:30: Demonstration interview (Humanities) 15:30 – 16:45: Meet the tutors (with refreshments) St Peter's College website
Where: Woodstock Road, OX2 6HD Map reference: B4 When: 08:45–17:00 Student-led tours throughout (excluding 12:30–14:00) 09:00 – 09:45: Admissions talk/Q&A 12:30 – 14:00: Meet the tutors 12:30 – 14:00: Free sandwich lunch Somerville College website
Where: Broad Street, OX1 3BH Map reference: C5 When: 10:00–16:00 Student-led tours throughout (excluding 13:30–14:30) 13:00 – 13:30: Admissions talk/Q&A 13:30 – 15:30: Meet the tutors (book via Trinity College website ) Trinity College website
Where: High Street, OX1 4BH Map reference: D6 When: 10:00–17:00 Student-led tours throughout until 16:00 12:15 – 13:15: Demonstration interviews (Humanities and Sciences) 13:15 – 14:15: Demonstration interview (Medicine and Social Sciences) 14:30-15:15: Careers after Oxford 15:15 – 16:00 : Admissions talk/Q&A University College website
Where: Parks Road, OX1 3PN Map reference: C5 When: 09:30–16:30 Student-led tours throughout 12:45 – 13:10: Admissions talk/Q&A (students only) 13:15 – 14:00: Families, supporters and teachers talk/Q&A 13:15 – 14:00: Meet the tutors (students only) 14:10 – 15:00: Demonstration interviews (students only) 15:10 – 15:40: Personal statements workshop (students only) Wadham College website
Where: Worcester Street, OX1 2HB Map reference: B5 When: 09:00–17:00 Student-led tours throughout 09:00 –10 :00: Meet the Senior Tutor 12:30 – 13:00: Admissions talk/Q&A 13:00 – 14:00: Meet the students 13:00 – 16:00: Meet the tutors (students only) Worcester College website
Where: 54 Banbury Road, OX2 6PW Map reference: B3 When: 14:00–16:30 Please contact the college to arrange a tour.
Accepting mature students only, no school leavers.
Wycliffe Hall website
This is likely to include advice on choosing a college.
Life at ‘this college’ talk: These talks may cover tutorials, which take place within colleges, but will probably focus on the non-academic side to student life.
They are likely to include information on facilities, support and welfare networks and clubs and societies.
They may also talk about the accommodation and meals provided by the college.
Meet the tutors: Your opportunity to meet tutors in your chosen subject, and ask them questions about the course in an informal setting.
Subject sessions: These sessions are offered by some colleges, and will usually be a short talk about a particular course delivered by a tutor, with an opportunity to ask questions.
Meet the students: Your opportunity to speak to current students, who will be able to answer questions on student life, provide information about their college or course and share their experiences.
Families, supporters and teachers talk/Q&A: These often run alongside events which are only available to prospective students.
They will cover topics that are often of concern to supporters, such as welfare support, finances and accommodation, as well as information on admissions.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/open-days-and-visits/travel-advice:
Oxford is a beautiful city with a huge amount to offer visitors of all ages and we strongly recommend a visit if you are considering applying to the University.
For maps and further details about travel, please visit our Maps and directions information.
Oxford is a small city with many traffic restrictions and parking is limited.
If at all possible, please do not drive into the city centre.
We recommend that you use the Park & Ride system.
If driving into Oxford cannot be avoided, please refer to up-to-date traffic information for details of all local road works and advance notice of any disruptions.
Please note that there is no visitors' parking available at colleges or University buildings (unless you are a Blue Badge holder).
If you are travelling by car, please be aware that the A420 to the west of the city, on Botley road, is currently closed to traffic while maintenance on a railway bridge is carried out.
You will not be able to travel via this route by car, so please plan an alternative route.
Oxford City Council has some advice about parking in the city for visitors with disabilities.
We recommend using one of the following four Park & Rides conveniently located on the outskirts of Oxford.
Please follow the links below for full details:
Off the A34 from Abingdon, Didcot and Newbury.
Please be aware that due to maintenance taking place elsewhere in Oxford, the Park & Rides are likely to be extremely busy.
We recommend arriving early.
There will be additional services running on the Open Days, although please be aware that some Park & Ride services on these days will operate as express services to the city centre.
You will need to pay a parking charge when you park at a Park & Ride.
The standard parking charge is £2 per vehicle (up to 16 hours) or £4 per vehicle (up to 24 hours).
You can pay by cash at designated parking ticket machines.
You can also pre-pay using RingGo for Redbridge, Thornhill, and Pear Tree Park & Rides.
We strongly advise you to pay in advance to avoid lengthy queues at the ticket machines.
View a pdf version of the map .
You will need to buy a return bus ticket to and from Oxford city centre.
You can pay by cash or contactless on the bus.
A peak adult day return ticket costs £5 for two adults travelling together.
Up to 3 under 16s can travel free when accompanied by at least one fare paying adult.
There is also a Freeflow system that allows you to 'tap on' the driver ticket machine at the start of each journey  and 'tap off' at the end of each journey using a contactless payment method.
A combined parking and bus ticket is available to purchase at specific combined ticket machines at each Park & Ride.
The cost of a combined ticket is £6.80 and covers two adults and three Under 16s.
Combined tickets can only be purchased on the day.
There is no general coach parking in Oxford city centre, so if you are travelling with a large group of students, we recommend dropping them in the city centre and parking at Redbridge, which offers parking for coaches and mini-buses.
On-street pick-up and drop-off points are provided by Oxfordshire County Council at the following locations:
School groups travelling by mini-bus can book a free parking space (subject to availability) at Lady Margaret Hall, which is only a ten-minute walk away from the city centre and a 25-minute walk from the Open Day Information Centre .
There are two railway stations in Oxford: Oxford station and Oxford Parkway station.
The National Rail website has a number of travel tools available to alert passengers to any changes or disruptions in service, including the National Rail app and Train tracker: 03457 484950 or text 84950 (charges apply).
Find your way from Oxford's railway station to the Examination Schools (Open Day information centre) on foot by following along with our quick video of the route.
Coach services run to Oxford from many parts of the UK.
The city's coach station is located centrally and within a short walk of many colleges and other facilities.
More information about coach services can be found at:
Please read our advice on the 'by car' tab.
Oxford is well-connected to the UK's international airports.
The collegiate University is committed to improving access and is currently continuing to develop its Access Guide .
As more of our historic buildings are modified the Access Guide will become more comprehensive.
In the meantime, the Access Guide is a helpful first point for information on accessible buildings.
Where there are gaps in the information we suggest you contact the places you wish to visit directly.
The Oxford City Council website provides further information on accessibility.
The council also runs a scheme enabling visitors to hire self-propelled or battery operated wheelchairs and scooters for free.
There are taxi ranks at Oxford Railway Station, Gloucester Green Coach Station and St Giles' in the city centre.
A list of taxi companies can be found on Oxfordshire's Visitor Information Centre website.
Some Open Day venues that are located outside of the city centre can also be accessed via bus.
Please visit the Oxford Bus Company's journey planner to plan your route.
It can be expensive to get to Oxford so some colleges are now offering to help with the cost:
Terms and conditions apply.
Further travel assistance schemes may become available and details will be announced on this page.
School groups travelling by mini-bus can book a free parking space (subject to availability) at Lady Margaret Hall, which is only a ten-minute walk away from the city centre and a 25-minute walk from the Open Day Information Centre
If you are travelling far, you might be able to stay the night at an Oxford college .
Unfortunately colleges are usually unable to accommodate parents - the Conference Oxford or Experience Oxfordshire websites may help you find somewhere else to stay.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/open-days-and-visits/open-day-accommodation:
On this page you will find the college accommodation that is available for the Open Day on 19 September 2025.
Some colleges also offer help with the cost of travelling to Oxford .
Visitors are advised to contact colleges directly to check availability and to book.
Click on the college names in the table below for further information and booking instructions.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/open-days-and-visits/open-day-information-centre:
Examination Schools, 75–81 High Street, Oxford, OX1 4BG
Colleges and departments are the best places to meet tutors, speak to students and find out all you need to know about the course you are interested in and about student life at Oxford.
If you have other questions or would like further advice, the Open Day Information Centre hosts a range of talks, including for parents and teachers, and information stalls staffed by our student service teams.
If you need any guidance to help you find your way around events in Oxford, pop by to ask our dedicated team of staff and students here or at one of our information points in Radcliffe Square or by the Science Area and we’ll be happy to help.
The programme of events for the Open Day on 19 September 2025 is available below.
These talks are aimed at families and supporters of prospective Oxford students.
We recommend that prospective students instead concentrate on attending departmental programmes during these talks.
Supporting your young person’s welfare When: 10:30–11:00 Where: Room 6, Ground Floor, Examination Schools How can you help your child successfully make the transition from school to university?
Our support and welfare team will advise on supporting students during this challenging time as well as explaining the wide range of welfare services offered by the University to all its students.
Questions will be welcome.
Supporting your young person’s application When: 11:10–11:40 Where: Room 6, Ground Floor, Examination Schools As well as answering your questions, we will explain our application timeline, highlighting deadlines and focusing on how you may support your child at each stage.
Supporting your Muslim young person’s application When: 11:50–12:20 Where: Room 6, Ground Floor, Examination Schools Is your Muslim child considering applying to Oxford?
Are you curious to learn about the support the University can provide?
Join representatives from the Oxford University Islamic Society (OUISoc) to hear about how Oxford could be the right place for your child and their faith.
The session will dispel myths and showcase Muslim students' own experiences.
You can also find OUISoc at their stall in the information room.
These talks are aimed to teachers and advisers in schools, and are not open to general audiences, parents and supporters, or prospective students.
Teachers’ forum When: 10:30–11:00 Where: Room 7, Ground Floor, Examination Schools A chance for teachers and advisers to meet with admissions staff, receive an update the Oxford admissions process and ask questions about how to support students who are considering Oxford.
This session will also give advice on how to access Oxford’s many outreach resources.
Oxplore Teach When: 11:10–11:40 Where: Room 7, Ground Floor, Examination Schools Demonstration and information about Oxford’s new digital platform for Key Stage 3 t eachers – complete with ready-to-use classroom sessions and CPDL support, ready to ignite academic enrichment at your school!
These talks are aimed at prospective students considering applying to study at Oxford.
Astrophoria Foundation Year When: 14:00–14:30 Where: Room 6, Ground Floor, Examination Schools Are you a UK student interested in studying Chemistry, Classics, Engineering Science, English, History, Law, Materials Science, PPE or Theology but your personal or educational circumstances have meant you are unlikely to achieve the grades typically required for Oxford courses?
If so, please come along to our talk to find out more about the Astrophoria Foundation Year !
Student Finance When: 14:00–14:30 Where: South School, First Floor, Examination Schools Hear all the latest information about course fees and living costs at Oxford.
We will talk you through the funding currently available to UK students to cover these costs, including government funding.
You will also hear more about Oxford’s financial support.
This includes generous, non-repayable bursaries for students from lower-income households, and targeted funding for care leavers and estranged undergraduates without family support.
A current student will be on hand to answer any questions about financing your studies.
Sport at Oxford When: 14:45–15:15 Where: Room 6, Ground Floor, Examination Schools Do you want to continue your sport at Oxford and find out about our programme for your sport?
Are you interested in trying a new physical activity and want to know if there are opportunities for students at Oxford?
Come along to our talk on all things sport at Oxford to find out more and ask us any questions you have about specific activities.
Applying to Oxford When: 14:45–15:15 Where: South School, First Floor, Examination Schools A guide through the admissions process, with advice on how to make a competitive application.
For prospective students who were unable to attend an admissions talk at a college or department .
These talks are hosted by colleges but aimed at all prospective students regardless of college preference.
Further details of the sessions listed below can be found at the College timetables webpage .
Care-experienced and Estranged Students talk When: 16:00–17:00 Where: Magdalen College, High Street
Life as a Muslim Student (Q+A) When: 16:00–17:00 Where: Lady Margaret Hall, Norham Gardens
LGBTQ+ Life at Oxford talk When: 12:45–13:30 Where: St Anne's College, Woodstock Road
When: 09:00–16:30 Where: North School, First Floor, Examination Schools Staff from undergraduate admissions and student services will be available throughout the day to answer your questions.
Undergraduate Admissions – UK and international Ask our admissions team any questions about your Oxford application .
Admissions testing Many of our undergraduate courses require applicants to take an admissions test.
Visit this stall if you have any questions about the testing process.
Student Fees and Funding Ask our fees and funding team about topics such as Oxford’s financial support provision, applying for government funding and the cost of living at Oxford.
Careers Service Find out from the Careers Service about the support and opportunities available to Oxford students during and after their studies, including information about internships and graduate career prospects.
Student Welfare and Support Services Find out how students can access support from the University's student welfare and support services:
Astrophoria Foundation Year The Astrophoria Foundation Year provides a stepping stone to Oxford for UK state school students with significant academic potential whose personal or educational circumstances mean they're unlikely to meet to usual entry requirements for Oxford undergraduate courses.
If this sounds like you or someone you know who's interested in studying Chemistry, Classics, Engineering Science, English, History, Law, Materials Science PPE or Theology, come along to our talk to find out more!
Mature Students (available 10:00–13:00 only) Any student who will be 21 or over at the start of their course is considered a mature student.
Staff at this stand can talk to you about topics of particular interest such as entry requirements, finance and more.
Oxford Lifelong Learning Information about adult learning at Oxford, provided by Oxford Lifelong Learning : part-time undergraduate and postgraduate programmes, short courses in Oxford and online, summer schools and professional development courses.
Oxford University Sport Visit our stall in the information room (or just come and say hi – we’ll be there all day) to speak to our sports staff and student representatives from sports clubs.
Find out about sport overall, sports clubs, getting #ActiveAtOxford, health and fitness opportunities for students at Oxford.
You can also come along to our Sport at Oxford talk for wider information on sport and physical activity at Oxford.
Oxford University Islamic Society Interested in applying to Oxford as a Muslim?
Bring your questions and concerns to current Muslim students and hear about their experiences to find out how Oxford could be the right place for you and your faith.
We welcome both prospective students and families/supporters.
Oxford University Students' Union (Oxford SU) Meet representatives from Oxford Students' Union and Oxford SU Advice.
Oxford SU exists to represent you, the students of Oxford.
Whether you're undergraduate or postgraduate, you're part of a student body of over 26,000 students across 39 colleges, 6 permanent private halls, and hundreds of societies.
We're here to amplify your voice and make sure your Oxford experience is the best it can be.
We are an independent, student-led charity, democratically run — elected by students, for students.
Find out more about access to the Open Day Information Centre at the Examination Schools.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/open-days-and-visits/museums-libraries-and-other-venues:
Oxford’s world-class museums house rare treasures from the natural world as well as amazing art and artefacts.
The museums are also a valuable study resource for students and academics.
All warmly welcome Open Day visitors.
As a student here, you will be able to work in some of the best resourced and most awe-inspiring places to study anywhere in the world.
Other excellent universities may have one or two large libraries, Oxford has over 100, making it the largest university library system in the UK.
This means it may well be possible for you to complete your degree here without having to buy a single book.
Below is the programme of events at museums, libraries and other venues for the Open Day on 19 September 2025.
Where: Beaumont Street, OX1 2PH When: 10:00–17:00 Particularly relevant to: Ancient and Modern History; Archaeology and Anthropology; Asian and Middle Eastern Studies; Classical Archaeology and Ancient History; Classics; Fine Art; History of Art.
The Ashmolean Museum is home to the University’s collection of art and archaeology.
Founded in 1683, it was the first public museum in the UK and is one of the oldest in the world.
Highlights include mummies from Ancient Egypt; classical sculpture from Greece and Rome; paintings by the masters of European art; and the greatest collection of Chinese art in the Western world.
www.ashmolean.org
Where: Broad Street, OX1 3AZ When: 12:00–17:00 Particularly relevant to: all science and history courses.
This museum houses an unrivalled collection of historic scientific instruments, including Einstein’s blackboard, intricate Islamic astrolabes and the first cultures of the lifesaving antibiotic Penicillin.
www.hsm.ox.ac.uk
Where: Parks Road, OX1 3PW When: 10:00–17:00 Particularly relevant to: Biology; Earth Sciences.
The museum houses an impressive range of scientific collections of zoological and geological specimens in a spectacular Victorian building.
www.oum.ox.ac.uk
Where: Parks Road, OX1 3PW (Entry through the Museum of Natural History) When: 10:00–17:00 Particularly relevant to: Archaeology and Anthropology; History of Art.
The Pitt Rivers Museum is home to a remarkable collection of man-made objects from all parts of the world.
It is equally famous for its celebrated displays and its leading role in contemporary research.
www.prm.ox.ac.uk
Where: High Street, OX1 4AZ (opposite Magdalen College Tower) When: 10:00–17:00 (last entry at 16:00) Particularly relevant to: Biology.
The Garden, founded in 1621 contains more than 4,000 different species in just two hectares making it one of the most diverse collections of living plants in the world.
Admission charges apply.
www.botanic-garden.ox.ac.uk
Where: High Street, OX1 4BJ When: 10:00–17:00 From the very beginning of the University, the University Church was used as a central meeting place for worship, lectures and academic debate.
The University’s court, treasury and library were housed here until the 15th century.
www.universitychurch.ox.ac.uk
Where: 12 Woodstock Road, OX2 6HT When: 10:00–16:00 The Language Centre is the hub for all students who want to improve their language skills, regardless of degree subject.
You can choose from 12 Modern Languages, and Academic English for international students.
All courses are taught by expert tutors in small groups, in-person and online.
Visit us to meet our tutors, find out more about our courses and look around our classrooms.
www.lang.ox.ac.uk
Where: Robert Hooke Building, Parks Rd, Oxford OX1 3PP When: 10:00–16:00 Oxford University Islamic Society has its own dedicated prayer room, open 24/7 to all students with many events hosted throughout the term.
Drop in if you have any questions about being Muslim at Oxford and would like to speak to a current student.
The space is also open for visitors to pray during the busy day - check the Jama'a times .
You can find us at the Open Day Information Centre and at our talk at Lady Margaret Hall, so please come along!
Where: St Cross Building, Manor Road, OX1 3UR When: Guided tours for prospective students at 12:15; 12:35; 12:55; 13:15; 13:35.
Particularly relevant to: Law.
The Law Library is a major research library, supporting the staff and students of the Faculty of Law and the wider legal community.
The library has over 550,000 volumes, and all four floors are open to readers.
It is the home of the Official Papers collection .
www.bodleian.ox.ac.uk/libraries/law
Where: Corner of Broad Street and Catte Street.
Meet at the entrance of the Bodleian Library, Old Schools Quad, Catte Street, OX1 3BG When: Tours leave on the hour and at 30 minutes past from 10:00–16:00.
13 places per tour.
Particularly relevant to: Classics, English, History, Philosophy, Theology.
Please note that this tour involves a lot of stairs.
Prospective students can arrange an accessible step free tour by emailing: [email protected] (subject to availability).
www.bodleian.ox.ac.uk/bodley
Where: Manor Road Building, Manor Road, OX1 3UQ (Ground floor ramped entrance) When: Guided tours at 10:45, 11:45 and 15:30.
Self-guided tours available all day 09:30–17:00.
Key library for undergraduates studying Anthropology, Geography, PPE, or either Politics or Economics as part of a joint honours degree.
www.bodleian.ox.ac.uk/libraries/ssl
Where: Faculty of Asian & Middle Eastern Studies, 1 Pusey Lane, OX1 2LE When: 10:00–16:00 The Nizami Ganjavi Library has about 55,000 volumes, with core collections covering the geographical areas of West Asia, North Africa, the Caucasus, Central Asia, South Asia, Tibet and Korea, covering the languages, history, cultures and religions of these regions.
www.bodleian.ox.ac.uk/libraries/nizami-ganjavi-library
Where: Parks Road, OX1 3QP When: Guided tours at 10:00, 12:00, 14:00, 16:00pm; maximum 15 people per tour.
Particularly relevant to: sciences.
The Radcliffe Science Library is the main Oxford University library for sciences.
It reopened in October 2023 after over three years of renovation.
It provides modern, comfortable, and accessible study spaces which cater for a variety of study styles.
www.bodleian.ox.ac.uk/libraries/rsl
Where: 1 St John Street, OX1 2LG (Meet at the Porters’ Lodge) When: Tours leave at 10:00 and 14:00 Particularly relevant to: Ancient History, Archaeology, Assyriology, Classics, Egyptology, Fine Art and History of Art.
www.bodleian.ox.ac.uk/libraries/art
Where: Oxford University Sport, Jackdaw Lane, off Iffley Road, OX4 1EQ When: 06:30–22:00 (guided tours available on the hour from 09:00 until 17:00 – visitors can explore on their own at other times) This is the main University sports facility, although many individual Oxford colleges have their own sports facilities too.
The centre includes a swimming pool, gyms, sports halls, a studio, indoor squash courts, outdoor tennis courts, a café, a variety of sports pitches and, of course, the athletics track made famous by Sir Roger Bannister.
Throughout the day, prospective students will be welcome to explore the centre at their leisure.
To find out more about sport at Oxford, including details on all our 80+ sports clubs, we recommend visiting Oxford University Sport at their desk at the Open Day Information Centre and attending the ‘Sport at Oxford’ talk there to hear from members of staff from the Sports Federation and student representatives from Oxford sports clubs.
www.sport.ox.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/open-days-and-visits/independent-visits:
Come and see us and find out for yourself what Oxford is really like.
In addition to the main University Open Days, several departments run course-specific open days and there are also many outreach events .
We hope very much that you will be able to visit during one of our Open Days , but if this is not possible, you are still welcome to visit the University at any time.
Oxford is a city best explored by foot or bicycle.
There is no central campus so it is important to plan your visit in advance, perhaps drawing up a list of places to visit and planning your route between them.
The following resources may be useful:
University Open Days are the best time to visit and most colleges will be holding events on these dates.
However, most colleges are open throughout the year, at least for potential applicants to walk around the grounds.
Our Visiting colleges page gives details about opening times and any admissions charges which may apply, though many colleges waive these for potential applicants, so make sure they know this applies to you.
The first thing to do is check which colleges offer your course .
Then you can read more about each college on our college pages , which have links through to colleges’ own websites.
You might like to read our advice on choosing a college .
In order to make it easier for you to establish a first point of contact with our University, every Oxford college is ‘linked’ to a particular region of the UK.
You can find the colleges working in your region at Oxford for UK.
Unfortunately, departments are rarely open to visitors except during Open Days.
Some departments also hold their own open days and other events throughout the year.
Open Day programmes often include admissions talks, demonstration lectures, demonstration interviews, tours of the department and an opportunity to meet tutors and current students.
Department open days are particularly recommended for science applicants as much of their teaching takes place in the department.
Please visit our course pages for more on opportunities to visit subject departments.
If you have questions about a particular department you might like to contact them before you visit as it's not always possible to arrange personal meetings, especially during term-time.
The University museums are an important resource for many courses, so you may wish to include one of these in your itinerary.
There are also over 100 libraries here, some of which are open to the general public.
Check details of tours and exhibitions at museums and libraries.
There are many other online resources available, including our podcasts , our YouTube channel , our Facebook page and our undergraduate admissions Instagram and X accounts.
Virtual tours of colleges and departments are also available, which will give you an idea of what our colleges are like.
Use our searchable University map to plan your visit
Follow us on X @OxOutreach , on Instagram @StudyAtOxford and on YouTube @StudyAtOxford for the latest news about events and visits.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/archaeology-and-anthropology:
UCAS code: LV64 Entrance requirements: AAA Course duration: 3 years (BA)
Required subjects: Not applicable Recommended subjects: Not applicable Helpful subjects: Combination of arts and science subjects
Admissions tests: None Written Work: Three pieces
Interviewed: 57% Successful: 17% Intake: 21 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 278121 Email: [email protected]
Unistats information for this course can be found at the bottom of the page
Please note that there may be no data available if the number of course participants is very small.
Archaeology and anthropology together encompass the study of humankind from the origins of the human species to the present day.
Both disciplines have a long history: archaeology grew from 18th-century antiquarianism, while anthropology began even earlier in the first days of colonial encounter.
Today, both subjects involve a range of sophisticated approaches shared with the arts, social sciences and physical sciences.
">Video of Archaeology and Anthropology at Oxford University
Oxford’s distinctive combination of archaeology and anthropology, studied over three years, offers an unusually broad perspective on human societies from early prehistory to the present.
The course offers a comprehensive guide to the richness and diversity of human cultural experience throughout space and time.
By choosing to study here you will be able to:
Five Oxford institutions specialise in these subjects:
All five institutions play a key role in the provision of teaching for the degree.
As part of your course you must undertake a minimum of four weeks of fieldwork (subject to approval by your tutors).
This is normally completed in the summer vacation at the end of your first year.
Fieldwork can take place in field settings, or in a laboratory or museum and involve anthropological as well as archaeological projects.
Recent destinations include Azerbaijan, Denmark and South Africa.
Financial support for your fieldwork is available from the University and may also be available from your college.
You may also choose to engage in further fieldwork as part of your final-year dissertation, while other opportunities may exist for work-based learning in the University’s own museums.
'I love studying Arch and Anth because it’s such a diverse course.
No two days are the same and you get to study so many fascinating things: last week for example, I had a lecture on geology and stratigraphy, went to the library to do some reading on witchcraft, and then had a tutorial about the rise of early states and empires.
I also spent three hours writing a paragraph about the presence of ancient bananas in New Guinea and what this showed us!'
'Choosing Archaeology and Anthropology, for me, was about the amazing breadth of the subject.
I had always favoured history and biology in school, and this degree offers ways to not only combine the two, but also to look at both history and science from a completely new angle… With my degree, I’ve had the opportunity for field trips, field work in southern England, and am planning on several months in South America...'
Erin
'The remit for Arch and Anth is essentially every human society in the world both today and throughout the whole of history.
You can pretty much study anything within that, which is so exciting!
I'd thought it would focus on the big civilisations (Greece, Rome, Inca, Maya, Egypt etc) but actually some of the most interesting stuff turned out to be the slightly more obscure areas, such as gift exchange in modern Japan.'
Natasha
Discover Uni course data provides applicants with Unistats statistics about undergraduate life at Oxford for a particular undergraduate course.
Visit the Studying at Oxford section of this page for a more general insight into what studying here is likely to be like.
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Archaeology and Anthropology.
Your timetable will be divided into lectures, tutorials and practical classes.
These will cover topics such as dating, isotope analysis, and the analysis of plant, animal and human remains, as well as artefacts.
In the first year you will spend around six hours a week in lectures, which focus on the course’s core papers.
In Years 2 and 3, lectures for core and optional papers take up around ten hours a week.
Throughout the course, there are one or two tutorials a week, (typically a total of twelve in each term).
Tutorials are usually two students and a tutor, but may include up to three students depending on circumstances.
Lectures will include the whole year group of around 25 students, although they are sometimes shared with Human Sciences students and/or postgraduates, and are therefore larger.
Lecture sizes for optional courses are normally smaller and could be as low as 3-6 students.
Some teaching may also be delivered by postgraduate students who are studying at doctoral level.
To find out more about how our teaching year is structured, visit our Academic Year page.
First University examinations: four written papers
A full list of current options is available on the Archaeology website .
Final university examinations:
Year 2 - the option taken in this year is examined by a 5000-word-long essay.
The Fieldwork and Methods paper is examined by a 5000-word-long report on the fieldwork completed at the end of Year 1, plus two 1000-word-long reports written in respect of the practical classes
Year 3 – six written papers in respect of the remaining core courses and options, plus a 15,000 word dissertation, which is double-weighted.
The content and format of this course may change in some circumstances.
Read further information about potential course changes .
A-levels:
Advanced Highers:
International Baccalaureate (IB):
Any other equivalent qualification:
Wherever possible, your grades are considered in the context in which they have been achieved.
Read further information on how we use contextual data .
If English is not your first language you may also need to meet our English language requirements .
All candidates must follow the application procedure as shown on our Applying to Oxford pages.
The following information gives specific details for students applying for this course.
You do not need to take a written test as part of an application for this course.
As part of your application all candidates are required to submit the following:
Visit our page on the submission of written work for further guidance and to download a cover sheet.
Tutors are primarily looking for an interest in, and enthusiasm for, the study of humans and their material culture, combined with an ability to digest and assimilate significant quantities of data and to construct evidence-based arguments.
While you don’t need to have prior experience of studying archaeology or anthropology, fieldwork experience and evidence of supplementary reading would be seen as one possible demonstration of your interest and commitment.
Tutors will be looking for the following qualities at interview:
Visit the Archaeology website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course .
Archaeology and Anthropology opens up a wide range of career opportunities.
This is in part because the degree offers a unique perspective on how human societies operate and develop and on how people interact with each other.
This range of career opportunities is also due to the intellectually demanding requirements of an Oxford degree, and to the combination of independent study and tutorial teaching.
Graduates of this course have found opportunities in heritage management, international development, education, the law, the media and the Civil Service among other careers.
Note: These annual fees are for full-time students who begin this undergraduate course here in 2025.
Course fee information for courses starting in 2026 will be updated in September.
We don't want anyone who has the academic ability to get a place to study here to be held back by their financial circumstances.
To meet that aim, Oxford offers one of the most generous financial support packages available for UK students and this may be supplemented by support from your college.
Further details about fee status eligibility can be found on the fee status webpage.
For more information please refer to our course fees page .
Fees will usually increase annually.
For details, please see our guidance on likely increases to fees and charges.
Living costs at Oxford might be less than you’d expect, as our world-class resources and college provision can help keep costs down.
Living costs for the academic year starting in 2025 are estimated to be between £1,425 and £2,035 for each month you are in Oxford.
Our academic year is made up of three eight-week terms, so you would not usually need to be in Oxford for much more than six months of the year but may wish to budget over a nine-month period to ensure you also have sufficient funds during the holidays to meet essential costs.
For further details please visit our living costs webpage .
Home
A tuition fee loan is available from the UK government to cover course fees in full for Home (UK, Irish nationals and other eligible students with UK citizens' rights - see below*) students undertaking their first undergraduate degree**, so you don’t need to pay your course fees up front.
In 2025 Oxford is offering one of the most generous bursary packages of any UK university to Home students with a family income of around £50,000 or less, with additional opportunities available to UK students from households with incomes of £32,500 or less.
The UK government also provides living costs support to Home students from the UK and those with settled status who meet the residence requirements.
*For courses starting on or after 1 August 2021, the UK government has confirmed that EU, other EEA, and Swiss Nationals will be eligible for student finance from the UK government if they have UK citizens’ rights (i.e.
See further details .
Islands (Channel Islands and Isle of Man)
Islands students are entitled to different support to that of students from the rest of the UK.
Please refer the links below for information on the support to you available from your funding agency:
States of Jersey States of Guernsey Isle of Man
Overseas
Please refer to the "Other Scholarships" section of our Oxford Bursaries and Scholarships page .
**If you have studied at undergraduate level before and completed your course, you will be classed as an Equivalent or Lower Qualification student (ELQ) and won’t be eligible to receive government or Oxford funding
Fees, Funding and Scholarship search
Students must complete at least four weeks of approved fieldwork by the end of the second year.
The cost of this will depend on the location.
Funding is available from the University and potentially from your college to help towards costs.
Unistats course data from Discover Uni provides applicants with statistics about a particular undergraduate course at Oxford.
For a more holistic insight into what studying here is likely to be like, please view the information below and explore our website more widely.
College tutorials are central to teaching at Oxford.
Typically, they take place in your college and are led by your academic tutor(s) who teach as well as do their own research.
Students will also receive teaching in a variety of other ways, depending on the course.
This will include lectures and classes, and may include laboratory work and fieldwork.
However, tutorials offer a level of personalised attention from academic experts unavailable at most universities.
During tutorials (normally lasting an hour), college subject tutors will give you and one or two tutorial partners feedback on prepared work and cover a topic in depth.
The other student(s) in your tutorials will typically be doing the same course as you and covering the same topic.
Such regular and rigorous academic discussion develops and facilitates learning in a way that isn’t possible through lectures alone.
Tutorials also allow for close progress monitoring so tutors can quickly provide additional support if necessary.
Read more about tutorials and an Oxford education
Our colleges are at the heart of Oxford’s reputation as one of the best universities in the world.
Read more about Oxford colleges and how you choose
Many academic departments and faculties at Oxford have dedicated outreach events and activities aimed at promoting their subject area(s) and supporting talented students from all backgrounds to apply to their courses.
In addition to exploring department-run activities, we recommend checking out the outreach event calendar for upcoming University-wide events and other subject and college activities.
Subject-specific resources supporting supercurricular engagement for all ages can also be found via the University's Digital Resource Hub , suggested subject resources webpage and Oxplore , our online learning platform for 11-to-18-year-olds.
UK state school students interested in this or similar courses may like to explore UNIQ , Oxford's free flagship outreach programme for students in their first year of further education.
UNIQ offers a choice of academic residentials in over 30 courses and each year provides around 1,500 students with the opportunity to experience Oxford's teaching, explore student life and receive expert support with their application to university.
Prospective applicants can sign up to receive step-by-step support with their Oxford application.
Read more about Oxford's widening access initiatives and other ways to connect with us before applying.
You might like to have a look at the Archaeology and Anthropology reading list or the Discover Anthropology website.
You can also listen to and watch videos from the School of Archaeology , including a range of talks and content available via YouTube .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/asian-and-middle-eastern-studies:
UCAS code: See course options Entrance requirements: AAA Course duration: 3 or 4 years (BA) (see Structure tab)
Required subjects: Not applicable Recommended subjects: Not applicable Helpful subjects: A language.
Mastering the ability to handwrite is a mandatory core element for Chinese, Japanese and Korean.
Admissions tests: None Written Work: Two pieces
Interviewed: 87% Successful: 32% Intake: 37 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 278312 Email: [email protected]
The Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies is unique for its focus on introducing students to civilisations that are different from the Western ones upon which the curriculum in most British schools and colleges is based.
The various courses offered by the Faculty present both the major traditions and cultural trends of the regions studied and, in most cases, their modern developments.
All courses include a combination of linguistic, literary, historic and cultural studies.
There is a wide range of options in fields such as art and archaeology, history, literature, philosophy, religion and modern social studies.
Asian and Middle Eastern Studies has a long history in Oxford.
The Bodleian and other libraries possess extensive collections.
These include the Nizami Ganjavi Library, the KB Chen China Centre Library and the Bodleian Japanese Library which contain significant collections in their respective fields.
Around the corner from the Faculty building on Pusey Lane is the Ashmolean Museum , which houses superb collections relevant to Asian and Middle Eastern Studies.
Nearby are also the Leopold Muller Memorial Library at the Clarendon Institute for Hebrew and Jewish Studies material, and the Bodleian Art, Archaeology and Ancient World Library .
The Bodleian Art, Archaeology and Ancient World Library contains the renowned Griffith Institute Archive, one of the finest collections in the world for the study of ancient Egypt and the Ancient Near East.
Most courses offer the opportunity to spend time in the region being studied.
For example, students of Arabic spend a year in an Arabic-speaking country; students of Turkish in Turkey; students of Chinese in China or Taiwan; students of Japanese in Japan; students of Persian in Iran, Tajikistan and/or Armenia.
For Persian, the Faculty decides each year whether it is advisable for its students to spend their year abroad in Iran.
In years when Iran is not possible, they study in Tajikistan and/or Armenia instead.
In certain circumstances, for example due to visa difficulties or because the health needs of students cannot be met, it may be necessary to make adjustments to a course’s requirements for international study.
Students who consider that they may be affected are asked to contact their department for advice.
'I chose Oxford because apart from just learning the language, the [BA Arabic] course gives a solid introduction to many different areas relating to the Middle East, before moving on to focus on particular areas in more depth and becoming really flexible, allowing me to explore my interests.
I am looking forward to being able to read literature in Arabic rather than having to study it in translation.'
Will
'Apart from Akkadian language classes and my history and civilisation lectures, which I love, the department in general is so lovely.
It's a really close knit community and there's often events going on to get everyone together, lecturers and students alike.'
Hannah
'Most people think of Egyptology and Assyriology as really hermetic subjects, but they involve everything from linguistics and scientific archaeology to literary theory and comparative religion.
They just use ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia as contexts for applying and evaluating much broader streams of academic inquiry.
And that's great because while you get to pursue your specific interests in the field, you also dip into a bit of everything else - it's not a subject one gets bored of!'
Please select 'see course data' on the following course options to view the full Unistats data for each.
Your time will be divided between lectures, tutorials (up to three students and a tutor) and language classes that will develop your writing, speaking - when relevant - and comprehension skills.
The rest of your time will be dedicated to independent study, working on regular assignments in reading, writing and translation.
Seminar and language class sizes may vary depending on the options you choose or the language you are studying, but there would usually be no more than around 10 students and often fewer, while lectures are normally around 15-25 students.
Most tutorials, classes, and lectures are delivered by staff who are also tutors in their subject.
Some teaching may also be delivered by postgraduate students who are usually studying at doctorate level.
Visit our Academic Year page to find out more about how our teaching year is structured.
The options listed in this section are only illustrative of what is available.
A full list of current options is available on the Asian and Middle Eastern Studies website .
Year abroad: approved course of language instruction
First University examinations after term 3: three written papers; an oral exam (Arabic only)
Final University examinations at the end of Year 4: oral exam and eight or nine written papers (one of which must be a dissertation)
For students starting Assyriology (Ancient Near Eastern Studies) in 2025 or thereafter, please note that the degree title for course Q401 has changed from BA in Egyptology and Ancient Near Eastern Studies to BA in Assyriology.
In the new structure, the Egyptology course will lead to a BA in Egyptology (Q400), and the Ancient Near Eastern Studies course will lead to a BA in Assyriology (Q401).
The course content and options will remain the same.
Final University examinations: ten units
First University examinations: three written papers; an oral exam
Final University examinations: oral examination; eight written papers (including extended essay for candidates who have taken these options); dissertation
Final University examinations: seven written papers; dissertation; oral examination if taking a year abroad (four year course)
Final University examinations: oral examination; eight written papers; dissertation
Final University examinations: seven written papers; dissertation
Final University examinations: ten papers (seven in Sanskrit, including a dissertation, and three in a subsidiary language)
International Baccalaureate (IB):
Students are not expected to have studied an Asian or Middle Eastern language before.
A language to A-level, Advanced Higher, Higher Level in the IB or another equivalent can be helpful to students in completing this course, although this is not required for admission.
Mastering the ability to handwrite in Japanese, Chinese and Korean has been identified as a competence standard for a mandatory core element of these courses.
This means that students will be required to produce handwritten work for assessment and it will not be possible to complete the assessment in an alternative format.
If you are interested in this course and your personal circumstances mean that handwriting may present a challenge, please contact the [email protected] for further information.
Two pieces, written in English.
The particular topic of your essay and the A-level (or equivalent) subject from which it is drawn are not important; it is intended to show how you construct an argument and express your ideas in English.
If you do not have any recent marked work written in English (for example, because of the combination of subjects you are currently studying), you may submit a separate piece of work, such as an essay in English on one of the topics you have been studying for your A-level (or equivalent).
It may be helpful to seek guidance from your teachers in devising a suitable title.
In such circumstances, it would not normally be expected for this piece to have been marked, as it will not have been done in the normal course of your studies.
If you have any further questions about what to submit, please contact the Tutor for Admissions at the college which is considering your application.
Visit our college pages for contact details.
Read our further guidance on the submission of written work for more information, and to download a cover sheet.
The ability to learn difficult languages from scratch requires strong motivation and a capacity for sustained and well-organised hard work.
Asian and Middle Eastern Studies also requires you to develop skills of analysis, argument and essay writing across the fields of literature, history and religious thought.
Visit the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
The skills developed while studying for a degree in Asian and Middle Eastern Studies are greatly appreciated by a wide range of employers.
Career options include:
Around 30% of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies graduates go on to further study.
Andi, who graduated with a BA in Japanese, is Director of International Business Development at Ping Identity.
He says:
‘My time at Oxford gave me a good foundation for the varied demands of both small and large companies, and the skills required to handle the constant change and learning required in the software industry.
I’ve had the opportunity to do business in Japan on several occasions through my career.’
Iason, who graduated with a BA in Arabic, is a photojournalist, film-maker and lecturer currently working for the UN in Libya.
‘I have lived in Cairo, Damascus, Sanaa and Tehran, and covered events like the 2011 Arab revolts and the Greek economic crisis.
After studying for a Master’s in Persian and Contemporary Iranian Studies, I was a Nieman Fellow at Harvard.’
Students taking Arabic, Chinese, Japanese, Persian or Turkish will take the second year abroad.
Students of Hebrew can choose to take a year abroad, but it is not compulsory.
During the year abroad, students currently pay significantly reduced fees to the University.
Fees for later years have not yet been confirmed but as an example, the course fees for a new-cohort undergraduate student on a Humanities course going on a year abroad in 2025 would equate to:
The Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies covers the cost of language tuition abroad, but not living costs and flights.
Students taking Arabic are able to choose between several institutions abroad.
Depending on the choice of education provider, additional costs may be incurred.
These will be confirmed in advance each year.
Some funding towards year abroad placements is currently available through the Turing scheme, which provides living costs grants and enhanced support for disadvantaged students.
The University plans to bid for Turing scheme funding to support year abroad activity in future academic years.
UK students can continue to access government funding for living costs, and those from lower-income households who are means-tested will remain eligible for generous bursaries from Oxford.
Travel grants and financial assistance for those with insufficient funds may also be available through your college and the University.
Click on each of the course options in the 'Related' section of this page to view further subject specific information and the Unistats data provided by Discover Uni for each subject option.
Click on each of the following course options to view further subject specific information and the Unistats data provided by Discover Uni for each subject option.
Why not take a look at the following subject-specific information:

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/biochemistry-molecular-and-cellular:
UCAS code: C700 Entrance requirements: A*AA including Chemistry and another science or Maths, with the A* in Maths, Physics, Chemistry, or Biology (or a very closely related subject).
Course duration: 4 years (MBiochem)
Required subjects: Chemistry and another science or Maths Recommended subjects: Maths Helpful subjects: Biology (beyond GCSE)
Admissions tests: None Written Work: None
Interviewed: 41% Successful: 12% Intake: 100 *3-year average 2022-24
Email: [email protected]
Biochemistry is the use of molecular methods to investigate, explain and manipulate biological processes.
The study of life at the molecular level continues to undergo dynamic expansion, leading to ever-increasing insights into topics as various as the origin of life, the nature of disease and the development of individual organisms.
Powerful new techniques, such as those of genome editing, super-resolution microscopy and CryoEM, enable us to analyse biological phenomena in more and more precise molecular terms.
These studies have led to extraordinary developments in our understanding of the molecular basis of life itself.
We can also apply this new knowledge in an ever increasing variety of ways enabling rational drug design and synthesis, synthetic biology, environmental monitoring and a whole range of other areas.
Furthermore, advances in biochemistry are largely responsible for the breakdown of traditional disciplinary boundaries between cell biology, medicine, physics and chemistry.
">Video of Biochemistry (Molecular and Cellular) at Oxford University
The Biochemistry Department at Oxford is one of the largest in Europe, and is subdivided into the following research areas:
The department is highly active in research, with about 450 postgraduate students and research staff.
The breadth and excellence of these activities are reflected in the scope of the undergraduate course and underpin the teaching.
The department has superb research, modern teaching facilities and excellent digital resources, which we use in an integrated way to teach.
An important aspect of the Oxford Biochemistry course is its fourth-year project, which occupies most of the 4th year.
The fourth year project provides an opportunity to pursue an in-depth research project under the supervision of an academic member of staff.
You choose a project together, plan your research programme, design your experiments and present your results to other researchers in the field.
The experience gained is much valued by employers.
We find that many of our students are inspired to pursue a research career as a result of their project year.
A wide choice of fourth-year research projects is available both within the Biochemistry Department and in related departments throughout the university.
These range from Physics, Statistics and Biology through to Clinical Medicine, Pharmacology and Pathology.
This reflects the interdisciplinary nature of the subject.
It is also possible to carry out a self-organised project outside the University or the UK.
'The broad knowledge of biochemistry that I learned has been invaluable as a starting point for learning the more specialist clinical biochemistry that is part of my current training.
I learned a lot about being able to work independently and to proactively seek knowledge and opportunities, which is critical when training in a busy hospital department.
I also feel lucky to have completed an undergraduate degree with a master’s year included - this has given me invaluable skills in and understanding of research, which is incredibly useful when approaching research in my current role.'
Rebecca
'I really like the way that Oxford teaches.
It is very different from other universities where you pick options a lot sooner.
The course allows you to see what’s out there and really lays the foundation work that is absolutely needed if you want to go into science careers when you finish.
I also like the project in the fourth year.
I’m really looking forward to it as I’ll get the chance to work for an extended amount of time in a lab.
It will definitely help me to decide whether a job in research/PhD is for me!'
Jemma
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Biochemistry.
During year 1, your weekly timetable will be divided between lectures (typically eight to ten a week), tutorials and classes (1 to 3 a week) and practicals (up to one full day a week).
The remaining time will be spent on independent study and preparation for tutorials and classes.
Tutorials are usually 2-4 students and a tutor working through a topic together.
For some topics classes are offered; class sizes may vary depending on the topic but are usually no more than 10-12 students.
During practical sessions there is usually a ratio of demonstrators to students of about 1:12 for wet practicals and up to 1:25 for computer based practicals.
Most tutorials and lectures are delivered by academic staff, many of whom are world-leading experts with years of experience in teaching and research.
Some tutorials and lectures may be delivered by postdoctoral researchers, while tutorials are occasionally delivered by postgraduate students.
Departmental classes and practicals are supervised by a senior member of staff and supported by postdoctoral researchers or postgraduate students who are studying at doctoral level.
At the end of the first year you will sit exams, called prelims, one exam in each of the subjects covered.
You are required to pass these to progress onto year 2, with the opportunity to resit over the summer.
In the 2nd and 3rd year you continue to be taught in lectures, practicals and tutorials.
However, the course is organised into immersive blocks where all the teaching in a particular week is focussed on exploring a specific biochemical question.
A typical block would have up to 8 lectures and some form of practical or data analysis activity.
In your fourth year, you will choose and complete a project, lasting most of the year, which will allow you to explore in detail, both laboratory-based research and specific recent advances in biochemistry.
This is supported by a skills training programme, which includes skills like communication and career planning.
Under the supervision of a research group leader, you will design your own experiments, learn to plan research programmes and present your results and ideas – orally and in written form – to other workers in the field.
The research project is written up in a dissertation.
A number of student projects form part of research publications from the university.
Apart from the project, you will have the task of writing a review article, covering current research in an area of biochemical interest.
You will need to be in Oxford for a 12 week extended first term.
You will continue your project over the entire second term and first few weeks of the third term, submitting your project dissertation thereafter.
You will also deliver an oral presentation on your project.
The final degree class is derived from a combination of marks from assessments taken in the second and third years, the final exams at the end of year 3, the assessment of the research project and the review article in the fourth year.
The significant research element in your final year means that you will graduate with an MBiochem – an integrated master's degree – as well as invaluable research experience and skills that will be excellent preparation for further study or a range of careers.
Five courses are taken:
First University examinations: five written papers; satisfactory practical record
Teaching delivered in one week blocks, each sitting within one of five threads:
Summative assessments (four, two-hour assessments in years 2 and 3).
Final University examinations, Part I: seven written papers (at the end of year 3); satisfactory practical record
Research project: Written dissertation and an oral presentation.
Review article: Written review article.
You do not need to take a written test or submit any written work as part of an application for this course.
As biochemistry is not taught as an A-level subject, tutors will not expect you to have a detailed knowledge of the subject.
However, if you are shortlisted for interview, tutors will be looking for an informed interest in the subject (originating from podcasts, videos, books, magazine articles etc).
They will also be looking for an ability to use information (from other school or college science subjects) to analyse and solve problems and to construct your own opinions.
Visit the Biochemistry website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
Biochemistry covers a range of scientific disciplines, including cell biology, genetics, microbiology, biophysics and biomedical sciences.
Because of its breadth, there are a wide range of employment opportunities available post degree.
These can include opportunities in education, law, finance, data science and publishing alongside roles in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical sector and academic research.
Typically about 60% of our biochemistry graduates go on to do research or further study, mostly in biochemistry related subjects.
Further details of careers in biochemistry can be found on the UK Biochemical Society website .
James, a graduate of the course who now works in science communication says:
'The Oxford biochemistry course gave me not only a thorough grounding in a range of specific biochemistry topics, but also a deep understanding about the practical processes of scientific research in general.
My work in science communication and engagement has all stemmed from the experiences and opportunities I gained through this course.'
Rosie became a science teacher after graduation:
‘The Biochemistry course was equal measures fascinating and rigorous.
It was the best thing I could have done to prepare me for steps after university; I have transitioned into teaching Biology and use my degree every day.
I am confident that wherever life takes me, the transferable skills I learnt at Oxford will stay with me.’
Caroline now works in biotech and found the course prepared her for her current role:
'I found the course challenging yet immensely rewarding.
I feel it prepared me well for my current job at a biotech start-up- I feel comfortable in a fast-paced environment and have a broad range of knowledge to draw from.'
In the final year of the Biochemistry course, students work an extended first term to begin their research project.
You will need to be in Oxford for 12 weeks in the first term.
The extended terms mean that you will need to budget for higher living costs in the final year, as you will be required to be in Oxford for longer than the standard terms.
You might also like to have a look at the suggested reading list for prospective students on the Biochemistry website.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/biology:
UCAS code: C100 Entrance requirements: A*AA (with the A* in a science or Maths) Course duration: 4 years (MBiol); 3 years (BA)
Required subjects:  Biology and either Chemistry, Physics or Maths Recommended subjects: Not applicable Helpful subjects: Not applicable
Interviewed: 46% Successful: 15% Intake: 109 *3-year average 2022-24
Biology, the study of life, is an exciting and rapidly developing subject.
Recent years have witnessed tremendous progress catalysed by technological breakthroughs and the integration of different biological approaches and disciplines.
Breakthroughs in Biology are playing a key role in addressing global challenges, from disease and poverty to biodiversity loss and climate change.
">Video of Biology at Oxford
This revised and upgraded Oxford Biology course was first introduced in 2019.
The structure of the course encourages a cross-disciplinary approach.
Following an introduction to fundamental biological principles in the first year, the second and third years allow students to choose options of particular interest and specialise in these areas with increasing depth.
The options cover a comprehensive range of topics, which currently include but are not limited to:
The course offers an optional fourth year.
This means that students can either leave after three years with a BA or choose to stay on for the fourth year, where they complete an extended research project under the supervision of qualified academic staff.
Progression to the fourth year is contingent on satisfactory academic performance in the second and third years.
The Biology degree is taught by the Department of Biology, with almost all teaching taking place in the University's Science Area.
Additional resources include the Oxford University Museum of Natural History , the Botanic Garden , the Herbarium , the Arboretum , the John Krebs Field Station and Wytham Woods .
There is a compulsory UK residential field course to study ecology in the first year.
Optional residential field courses are also available in the second year.
The course puts a strong emphasis on research skills training, which is an integral part of teaching across all years.
Compulsory skills training in the first year includes carefully selected dissections that have been designed with animal welfare and conservation principles in mind.
Skills training in the second year is also compulsory and covers a whole range of more advanced practical and quantitative skills essential to a modern biologist.
In the last part of the second year, students choose from a range of extended skills courses that last one or two weeks.
Examples include avian behaviour, digital morphology, ecological fieldwork, genome sequencing and genome editing, plant molecular biology, and technological applications to ecological monitoring.
In the third year, students specialise on a narrower range of options, and skills training continues in the form of journal clubs and computer classes.
'Throughout my whole life my head has buzzed with questions; questions about humans, plants, the oceans and the microscopic world invisible to the naked eye.
Oxford offers me the answers to these questions.
It’s incredible!
There’s loads of practical work, from a brilliant week-long field trip in the UK in your first year, to tropical Borneo in your second.
Lab work is a great chance to test the theories you’ve learnt in lectures and the supervisors are always happy to offer help and explanation.'
Claire
'I'd always been interested in biology from a young age.
I'd loved learning about the human body and was practically brought up on David Attenborough documentaries – therefore, learning more about the subject was a natural fit!
The course at Oxford in particular spanned the whole topic, covering everything there is to know, and I liked the flexibility this could give me, simultaneously allowing me to learn about a broad spectrum of topics but also enabling me to discover what I found most interesting and specialise accordingly!
It has also taught me more about the practical skills required, and thus the course has really helped me to become a well-rounded biologist.'
Stephanie
'With biology, there's no shortage of new and exciting research going on, and the breadth of content in the first year is just mind-blowing!
It's a really great idea to give students a taste of all aspects of the subject today, as from the second year onward there are increasing opportunities for specialisation.
That ability to drop less interesting topics and really focus on the ones you love is a most welcome form of flexibility.'
Alexandros
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for  Biology.
In the first year, your typical weekly timetable can be broken down into the following categories:
In the second and third years, the lecture and research skills workload remains roughly the same although there is a greater element of choice over the subjects studied.
In the third and fourth years, variable hours are also spent on research projects.
Lectures and practical class sizes will vary depending on the options chosen, ranging from as few as 20 students in a class up to potentially 120 students in a class.
Most tutorials, classes, and lectures are delivered by staff who are also college tutors in their subject.
Some teaching may also be delivered by trained PhD students and early career researchers with hands-on research experience.
Three written exam papers (assessing lecture material and research skills); assessed practical write-ups
Two written exam papers; coursework
The course broadens into a choice of eight options arising from the four second year themes.
Students select a minimum of four of the eight options.
A full list of current options is available on the Biology website .
Three written exam papers; coursework
Dissertation
* Students can choose to leave after three years and graduate with a BA, or they can continue to a fourth year and graduate with an MBiol.
Progression to the MBiol is contingent on satisfactory academic performance in the second and third years.
Any other equivalent qualifications:
All applicants must apply for the MBiol.
Students can choose to leave after three years and graduate with a BA, or they can continue to a fourth year and graduate with an MBiol.
Progression to the MBiol is contingent on satisfactory academic performance in the first three years.
Tutors are looking for evidence of enthusiasm for biology and aptitude for independent and analytical thinking.
In order for your application to be competitive, it is essential that you display genuine passion for Biology in your UCAS form.
You are unlikely to be shortlisted for interview if your personal statement does not make it clear that Biology is your preferred course of study.
Please note that this course is not a human biology or medical themed course.
If this is your particular area of interest, Oxford offers courses such as:
Interviews are not designed to test factual knowledge primarily, but rather to assess an applicant’s ability to think critically and independently, and their curiosity and passion for Biology.
Be prepared to talk about particular aspects of biology that you find personally interesting.
Similarly, be prepared to discuss Biology beyond your knowledge.
Tutors will not necessarily be interested in whether you know the answer or whether your answer is correct, instead they will be interested in your thinking process.
The process is rigorous but sympathetic.
Applicants may be asked to examine and comment on biological diagrams or images, or to interpret a graph, a written passage or a simple set of data, provided during the interview.
Visit the Biology website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
Around 40% of Oxford biology graduates go on to further study such as a research doctorate or postgraduate course in an applied field, while the vast majority of the remainder embark on a professional career after graduating in areas as diverse as education, research, not for profit, health, environmental work, media, marketing, and consultancy.
Hannah, now a research assistant at the Royal Veterinary College, reports:
‘My degree gave me a keen interest in my subject and the skills to pursue it.
So far I have tracked rhinos across deserts, chased birds across oceans, and am currently working with chickens!’
After graduation, Jenny spent several years in a medical communication agency environment and now has her own business, working directly with major global pharmaceutical companies.
She explains:
‘The tutorial system and writing opportunities during my degree were critical in developing the skills needed to analyse and interpret data, present them clearly and concisely in context and discuss results of clinical trials.’
The new Biology course was introduced for the first time in 2019; hence a limited amount of graduate career data is currently available.
The information reported here is therefore based on the more extensive data from the previous 3-year BA in Biological Sciences, corroborated by information from the first few cohorts of graduates from the new course.
Please note that despite the University's efforts to subsidise the course, fieldwork may require financial contributions from the student.
First-year students are required to undertake a UK-based residential field course in the summer term (typically 6 days).
You will study living organisms in a range of environments, both terrestrial and marine, and the content is assessed as part of the first-year examinations.
The University covers all costs for this compulsory trip, including food and accommodation.
Towards the end of the second year, you will complete one of a range of optional skills courses.
The range of courses offered will include some optional field trips away from Oxford.
In 2025, these trips will include:
As a guide, estimated costs for these optional courses in 2025 are:
If you stay on for the fourth year, as part of your course requirements, you will undertake a research project.
While the Department provides funds toward reasonable research expenses for each project, depending on your choice of topic and the research tools required, the project may require additional financial support, and in exceptional circumstances, for example, if you choose to conduct supplementary work, you may be asked to contribute to these costs.
Why not have a look at the University's latest research on our Science Blog , and discover more about what's happening in the department.
You may also like to have a look at New Scientist or National Geographic .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/biomedical-sciences:
UCAS code: BC98 Entrance requirements: A*AA excluding Critical Thinking and Thinking Skills Course duration: 4 years (MBiomedSci); 3 years (BA)
Required subjects: Two from Biology, Chemistry, Maths and Physics Recommended subjects: Not applicable Helpful subjects: Not applicable
Admissions tests: BMSAT Written Work: None
Interviewed: 24% Successful: 9% Intake: 43 *3-year average 2022-24
Biomedical science focuses on how cells, organs and systems function in the human body; an exciting and dynamic area that is highly relevant to the understanding and treatment of human diseases.
Oxford is a highly respected and internationally recognised centre for biomedical research.
Students on this course will benefit from tuition from leading experts working within a variety of nonclinical and clinical departments.
This course provides students with an intellectually stimulating education in modern molecular, cellular and systems biology and neuroscience.
Please note this course does not provide medical training.
The Biomedical Sciences course at Oxford has been designed so that students initially acquire an integrated understanding of biomedical science that allows them to shape their subsequent studies towards the topics that interest them the most.
Practical laboratory work forms an integral part of this programme and you will be required to complete these practical elements to a satisfactory standard in order to progress through the course.
As the course progresses, increasing emphasis is placed on scientific research, as students obtain first-hand experience of laboratory research in the later stages.
Students choose their own project and the possible areas for investigation within the University are wide ranging.
Students can elect to graduate after three years with a BA degree.
On the basis of the specialisation initiated by the selection of second-year modules and confirmed by the choice of third-year options, students will be awarded a degree in either Neuroscience or Cell and Systems Biology.
The research-intensive fourth year leads to the award of a Master’s degree.
Students who complete the fourth year will graduate with a Master’s degree.
'My course is already pretty specific in orientating the learning towards human biology, for those not wanting to be a medic.
However, on top of that it allows you to specify options after first year.
So, from second year onwards I am doing more specifically what I want to do.
I can focus on the areas of human science that really interest me and cut out those that turn me off.
This makes work much more enjoyable when you actively want to learn more about the subject, beyond the recommended reading list.'
'The first year is so incredibly broad!
I went into first year with no doubt in my mind that I'd be specialising in genetics or immunology, but a few psychology and neuroscience lectures later my whole plan had changed!
If I didn't do Biomedical Sciences, I may have never even considered neuroscience as something to dedicate my career towards!'
'Although in school I was encouraged to apply for Medicine, my interests were much more about the science than patient interaction.
The brilliance of the Biomedical Sciences course at Oxford is the luxury of choice.
It has been designed in a ‘stepping stone’ fashion, providing students with a solid foundation of science in the first year and then allowing them to tailor the course to their particular interests over the following two years.
You can tell they’ve really thought about the structure and it’s arguably one of the best and most exciting courses Oxford offers.'
Mark
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Biomedical Sciences.
In your first year you would typically attend six to ten lectures, a Mathematics or Statistics class and a three-hour practical class each week.
In addition, you will prepare for and attend weekly tutorials during which you will discuss the significance and limitations of a given topic with your tutors, through consideration of experimental studies.
Your remaining time will be available for independent study.
During the first two terms of the second year, your work is divided between around five lectures and one to two tutorials each week, in addition to practical classes.
The final term concentrates on experimental research in a laboratory.
During the third year you will attend lectures, seminars and tutorials in your chosen specialist area.
During the fourth year, you will be working almost exclusively on your extended research project and attending original research seminars to bolster your understanding of experimental biomedical sciences.
Tutorials are usually 2-4 students and a tutor.
Class sizes vary according to the type of class: workshops are typically 10 students, while practical classes are normally up to 40 students.
Most tutorials, classes, and lectures are delivered by members of academic staff or research staff.
Some tutorial and class teaching may also be delivered by postgraduate students who are usually studying at doctorate level.
To find out more about how our teaching year is structured, visit our Academic Year page and the Biomedical Sciences website .
In person examinations and other types of assessment at the end of year 1.
A satisfactory practical record is required for progression to Year 2.
Students select courses totalling ten units from a wide range of subject areas, which currently include:
The full list is available on the Biomedical Sciences website .
In person examinations at the start of the sixth term.
An academic penalty will be applied for an unsatisfactory practical record.
Students work on their short research project and specialist review.
Students undertake advanced study, including consideration of material selected from a wide range of specialised options that cover:
Students will choose whether they wish to graduate from the course with either a degree in Cell and Systems Biology or a degree in Neuroscience.
The degree awarded will depend on the pattern of options chosen.
View the full list of current options available.
Students will also submit coursework and deliver a presentation on their research findings to the examiners.
Performance at 2:1 level in Years 2 and 3 is required for progression to Year 4.
Students receive skills based teaching
Students work on their extended research project and a review article on state of the art research in a chosen field.
Highers:
BTEC Level 3 Extended Diploma:
Candidates are required to have two of their A-levels from Biology, Chemistry, Physics and Mathematics.
If a practical component forms part of any science A-levels taken, we expect candidates to have taken it and passed.
If not taken on to a higher level (A-level or equivalent), all candidates will need to show that they have received a basic education (achieving at least a grade C/4 at GCSE, Intermediate 2 or Standard grade (Credit) or equivalent) in Biology, Chemistry, Physics (GCSE Dual Award Combined Sciences or equivalent is also acceptable) and Mathematics.
Please visit the Biomedical Sciences website for further details on academic requirements .
All the information you need to arrange to take your test as well as how best to prepare can be found on your test page .
You do not need to submit written work as part of an application for this course.
Tutors look for lively, receptive minds with the ability to evaluate evidence critically.
You should be able to consider issues from different perspectives and have a capacity for logical and creative thinking.
BMSAT results will be considered when shortlisting candidates for interview.
Please visit the Biomedical Sciences website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course .
This course provides a strong foundation to pursue academic research, work in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors, or apply for an accelerated graduate-entry course in medicine.
In recent years, around two thirds of our graduates have gone on to study for a higher degree or a clinical qualification.
The Biomedical Sciences course at the University of Oxford is a full-time, basic science degree course, offering education in cell and systems physiology and neuroscience.
It is not accredited by the Institute of Biomedical Science.
In the third term of the second year, students who undertake a research project may wish to remain in Oxford after the end of full term to facilitate completion of their project.
However, this extended residence in Oxford is not a requirement and students should be aware that no financial support is available to help with any additional living costs during this time.
Visit the likely range of living costs for an additional month in Oxford.
In the (optional) fourth year of the Biomedical Sciences course, students will need to be in residence for an extended first term to begin their research project.
This extended term means that you will need to budget for slightly higher living costs in the final year, as you will be required to be in Oxford for longer than the standard term.
The additional work in the fourth year means that you will graduate with an MBiomedSci – a master’s degree – as well as invaluable research experience that will be excellent preparation for further study or a range of careers.
You may like to have a look at our suggested resources for potential Biomedical Sciences students.
You can also read about the University's research on our Science Blog .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/chemistry:
UCAS code: F100 Entrance requirements: A*A*A (with both A*s in science or maths subjects) Course duration: 4 years (MChem)
Required subjects: Chemistry and Maths Recommended subjects: Another science or Further Maths Helpful subjects: Not applicable
Interviewed: 66% Successful: 18% Intake: 180 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 272568 Email: [email protected]
Chemistry is a wide-ranging science concerned with matter at the atomic and molecular scale.
Important aspects are:
Chemists are a constant source of innovation: it is hard to imagine any product introduced in recent times that did not require the creative efforts of a chemist.
Chemistry underpins the conceptual framework and methodology of biochemistry and molecular medicine and is at the heart of many major industries.
">Video of Chemistry at Oxford University
Teaching and research are closely linked on the course: Oxford has one of the leading chemistry departments in the world with state-of-the-art teaching and research laboratories and world-class research in a broad range of areas including:
Students will be taught an exciting practical course in our recently-built lab.
The department has an outstanding track record in commercialising the innovative work of research staff, which has raised millions of pounds for the University.
The MChem is a four-year course and is not modular, in the sense that the subject is taught and examined as a whole, enabling us to explore the links within the subject.
The core material is taken by all students, with opportunities to specialise later in the course.
The fourth year (Part II) is devoted exclusively to research – a distinctive feature of Chemistry at Oxford since 1916.
To hear more about Chemistry at Oxford, visit our video: Chemistry at Oxford .
To hear more about our undergraduate Teaching Labs, visit our video: Chemistry Teaching Laboratory .
The fourth year (Part II) of the course involves full-time work within an established research group, which offers the possibility for a few students to spend time at laboratories in industry or at universities abroad.
Many students find work placements during vacations through the Careers Service and there are some opportunities within the department.
'We study organic, inorganic and physical chemistry as well as maths.
The topics we study range from quantum mechanics, to the applications of superconductors, to biochemical warfare and drug targets.
The department is one of the best in the world, with many top research chemists.
It’s amazing how often we have lectures or tutorials given by the authors of the textbooks we use!'
Abigail
'The great thing about Chemistry is that you learn about the fundamental aspects of the world we live in.
Some of the biggest problems that face humanity are solved – via medicine, or via social and economic improvements – by the discoveries made by chemists.'
'The best things [were often] the other students - when I joined the committee of the Scientific Society, I wasn't sure that I would ever know as much as the older students about the scientific community across all fields in the UK.
Over the past two years, I've been able to meet and talk at length with some of the best-known scientists in the UK and beyond, including invaluable contacts in my own field who I've kept in contact with ever since.'
Nessa
To hear more from past and current MChem students, visit our video: Our students’ thoughts .
If you’re interested in studying Chemistry but your personal or educational circumstances have meant you are unlikely to achieve the grades typically required for Oxford courses, then Chemistry with a Foundation Year might be right for you.
Visit our Foundation Year course pages for more details.
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Chemistry.
Tutorials are usually 2-4 students with a tutor.
Class sizes may vary but would usually be no more than around 15 students and can be as small as four.
Most tutorials, classes, and lectures are delivered by academic staff who are members of the department.
Part II (the fourth year) involves full-time work with an established research group.
Devoting the fourth year exclusively to research has been a distinctive feature of Chemistry at Oxford since 1916 and this will give you research skills that are highly valued by both academics and employers.
This final research year of the Chemistry course has three extended terms of 12 to 13 weeks (instead of the normal eight weeks) and is 38 weeks in total.
To hear more about how our undergraduate course works, visit our video: The Oxford MChem course .
The first year of the course covers the traditional areas of Inorganic, Organic and Physical Chemistry, together with Mathematics for Chemistry.
These are broadly based, and include topics such as Biological Chemistry and Physics, which are presented in a chemical context.
Students are taught through practical work, lectures and small group classes and tutorials.
Preliminary examination: four written papers; practical work.
During the second year of the course, students build up their understanding of the subject and cover most of the core material in the degree.
Examples of some of the topics included are:
Part IA examinations: three written papers; continuous assessment of practical work.
The third year begins by completing the core material, followed by a wide variety of options courses, some of which relate to research interests in the department.
Part IB examinations: seven written papers; continuous assessment of practical work.
The fourth year is spent exclusively on research, providing students with the opportunity to immerse themselves in a significant project in one of the world’s premier research departments.
Students are supervised by a member of academic staff and have full access to the research facilities of their host laboratory.
Part II examination: thesis; oral examination.
The final degree classification is determined at the end of the fourth year.
This course is currently under review.
Up-to-date details on any course changes can be found on the Chemistry website.
A*A*A (including Chemistry and Mathematics) with both A*s in science or maths subjects.
Read the full list of subjects in which an A* grade will be acceptable .
Candidates are required to have Chemistry and Mathematics to A-level, Advanced Higher, or Higher Level in the IB or any other equivalent.
In IB, Mathematics 7 at SL is also acceptable only where students have taken Analysis & Approaches.
If your personal or educational circumstances have meant you are unlikely to achieve the grades listed above for undergraduate study, but you still have a strong interest in the subject, then applying for Chemistry with a Foundation Year might be right for you.
Visit the course pages for more details of academic requirements and eligibility.
You do not need to take an admissions test as part of an application for this course.
You do not need to submit any written work when you apply for this course.
Tutors are looking for evidence of academic excellence and motivation, as well as the potential for advanced study, a capacity to analyse, explain and apply current knowledge, and a readiness to have a go at problems even when you cannot see how.
Visit the Chemistry website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
To hear more about the admission process, view our video: Oxford Chemistry admissions .
Chemistry is the basis of some of the most economically important industries in the UK, and these companies require a supply of high-quality graduate chemists.
Almost all of our graduates gain immediate employment or continue to postgraduate study.
Chemistry provides an excellent opportunity for the development of your critical faculties, and also instils important transferable skills that will serve you well, whatever your subsequent choice of career.
While about 55% of our Chemistry graduates go on to do research or further study, others enter professions such as scientific journalism, consultancy, patent law and teaching.
Long term, more than half our graduates remain in posts related to chemistry in some way.
The University Careers Service provides a wide range of support for students whilst on course, and also after graduating.
The Royal Society of Chemistry provides further information about careers using chemistry.
Students in their fourth year undertake full-time research under the supervision of a member of the academic staff.
This final year has three extended terms of 12 to 13 weeks and is 38 weeks in total, so you will need to budget for higher living costs in the final year, as you will be required to be in Oxford for longer than the standard terms.
(View the likely range of living costs for an additional month in Oxford.) This final year, which is entirely devoted to research, is a unique feature of the Oxford course, and will give you research skills that are highly valued by both academics and employers.
The Department of Chemistry runs dedicated outreach programmes, events and activities aimed at promoting science and chemistry and supporting talented students from all backgrounds to apply to the course.
The Department of Chemistry aims to inspire young people to aspire to study the chemical sciences beyond school and to support them to attain this goal.
UK state school students interested in chemistry can apply to UNIQ , Oxford’s flagship outreach programme for students in their first year of further education.
Each year, UNIQ provides over 1,500 students with the opportunity to experience Oxford teaching and receive application support.
Anyone interested in studying Chemistry at Oxford is encouraged to explore details of subject-specific opportunities and resources on the Department of Chemistry website .
Please note that some outreach events may require advance booking or have specific eligibility criteria.
+44 (0) 1865 281510 [email protected] chem.web.ox.ac.uk/schools
Why not have a look at the Chemistry-specific learning resources on the department’s website, which include recommended wider reading, videos and podcasts?

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/classical-archaeology-and-ancient-history:
UCAS code: VV14 Entrance requirements: AAA Course duration: 3 years (BA)
Required subjects: Not applicable Recommended subjects: Not applicable Helpful subjects: A classical language, Classical Civilisation or Ancient History
Admissions test: AHCAAT Written Work: Two pieces
Interviewed: 89% Successful: 16% Intake: 24 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 288391 Email: [email protected]
The course combines study of the history, archaeology and art of the classical world.
It looks at the societies and cultures of the ancient Mediterranean, through written texts, visual art and material remains.
The course has at its centre the two classical cultures of Greece and Rome.
The course is aimed at anyone interested in investigating ancient civilisations and their remains: from Greek temples and Roman amphitheatres to wall paintings and the poignant residues of everyday life.
While it is primarily a historical and non-linguistic degree, ancient languages can be used and learned as part of the course.
">Video of Classical Archaeology and Ancient History at Oxford University
The degree is taught through a mixture of tutorials, lectures and classes.
Some cover specifically archaeological or historical approaches to ancient Mediterranean cultures, but the degree is unique in also offering courses that combine both approaches.
In every year of the course there are classes led by both an archaeologist and a historian, which are designed to give an integrated, interdisciplinary approach to the topics studied.
The University’s resources for this combined subject are excellent.
The expertise, range and number of post-holders in the two fields are unique.
Oxford has some of the best library facilities for the study of classical archaeology and ancient history in the world (especially the Bodleian Art, Archaeology and Ancient World Library ).
The Ashmolean Museum also contains wide-ranging collections of art and artefacts from classical cultures.
There are two practical elements to the course:
Fieldwork projects recently attended by Classical Archaeology and Ancient History (CAAH) students include:
Faculty financial support is provided for fieldwork.
If you’re interested in studying CAAH but your personal or educational circumstances have meant you are unlikely to achieve the grades typically required for Oxford courses, then choosing to apply for CAAH with a Foundation Year might be right for you.
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Classical Archaeology and Ancient History.
You will take six options and produce a site or museum report.
Currently, the options are chosen from:
Tutorials are usually two students (possibly three) and a tutor; a larger group is normally defined as a class.
Where options are taught in classes, the class size will depend on the options you choose.
They would usually be no more than 10 students.
For the core papers the class size is usually eight or less.
Some teaching may also be delivered by postgraduate students who are studying at doctorate level.
Four courses are taken Core elements:
Current optional elements:
Six courses are taken from a wide choice of options.
These currently include:
The exact list of options on offer in a particular academic year may slightly differ.
For more information, visit the Classical Archaeology and Ancient History website .
Final University examinations: six written papers; one site or museum report
Read further guidance on the submission of written work .
Tutors are looking for intellectual potential, the specific visual, textual and reasoning abilities required for this course.
They are also looking for serious interest in and commitment to both classical archaeology and ancient history.
Tutors will consider all the available information to assess your potential to benefit from the course, to be a good tutorial student, and to attain good results in examinations.
Visit the Classics website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
Some CAAH graduates go on to further study and research to become professional archaeologists and historians.
Others move into different areas, including museum curation, heritage management, education, finance, advertising, publishing, the Civil Service and the law.
Recent CAAH graduates include a financial adviser, a teacher and a curator.
Sarah became a personal adviser.
She says: ‘My degree at Oxford provided the challenging environment in which I developed the skills I later needed to successfully complete Reed’s rigorous application procedure.’
At the end of the first year, CAAH students are required to undertake fieldwork or alternatively a practical museum placement.
Fieldwork projects recently attended by CAAH students include:
Museum placements included the Ashmolean Museum, Copenhagen Glyptothek (Denmark), Beazley Archive (Oxford) and others.
You can choose an alternative location if you wish, subject to the approval of the CAAH standing committee.
The cost of participating in fieldwork will depend on your choice of fieldwork project, but will typically vary between £500 - £1,200.
All CAAH students starting in 2025 will receive a fieldwork grant of up to £1,000 from the faculty; the amount is kept under review by the Faculty.
The Faculty of Classics runs dedicated outreach programmes, events and activities aimed at promoting the interdisciplinary study of ancient Greece and Rome and supporting talented students from all backgrounds to apply to the course.
The Outreach section of the Classics Faculty website features a wide range of resources, including advice on applying and on how to prepare to study Classics at university, details of the diﬀerent courses available at Oxford, interviews with current students in Classics and on related courses, details of Open Days and relevant competitions, and information on the OxLAT (Oxford Latin Teaching) scheme for students in Years 9 and 10 at state schools where there is no Latin provision.
Through the Classical Conversations programme, you can arrange a real or virtual visit from an Oxford academic to your classroom, and UK state schools can arrange to visit us in Oxford with talks at the Classics Faculty and handling sessions at the Ashmolean Museum and Bodleian Library.
UK state school students interested in classical subjects can apply to UNIQ , Oxford’s flagship outreach programme for students in their first year of further education.
Anyone interested in studying Classics at Oxford is encouraged to explore details of subject-specific opportunities and resources on the Faculty of Classics website .
+44 (0) 1865 288391 [email protected] www.classics.ox.ac.uk/outreach
Want to find out more about the ancient world?
Why not explore some websites which have excellent links to historical and archaeological materials, such as the British Museum or Oxford’s own Ashmolean Museum's collection highlights .
You could also have a look at BBC Radio 4's archives , for example for the programme In Our Time which covers material from Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome .
There are also many social media sites which you can have a look at such as Classics Confidential and Oxford Classics Outreach .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/classics:
UCAS code: Q800 Entrance requirements: AAA (with As in Latin and Greek if taken) Course duration: 4 years (BA)
Required subjects: Not applicable Recommended subjects: Not applicable Helpful subjects: Latin, Ancient Greek, Classical Civilisation, Ancient History or a modern language
Admissions tests: CAT Written Work: Two pieces
Interviewed: 96% Successful: 35% Intake: 102 *3-year average 2022-24
Classics ( Literae Humaniores ) is a wide-ranging course devoted to the study of the civilisations of ancient Greece and Rome and their reception into modern times.
It is one of the most varied and interdisciplinary of all subjects.
Classics students at Oxford have the opportunity to study the languages, literature, history, and archaeology of the Greek and Roman Mediterranean, as well as philosophy (both ancient and modern) and linguistics.
Oxford has the largest Classics Faculty in the world, with over sixty full-time academic staff members.
It has outstanding teaching, library and museum resources.
Resources include the Bodleian Art, Archaeology and Ancient World Library and Bodleian Libraries , the Ashmolean Museum and a designated Classics Centre.
The breadth of expertise in the Faculty allows us to offer an extremely wide range of courses from Homeric archaeology to Byzantine literature.
The length of the course allows students to explore the various disciplines within this vast subject and to engage with their particular interests within the classical world in real depth.
The Philosophy Faculty is the largest philosophy department in the UK, and one of the largest in the world, admitting around 450 undergraduates annually to read the various degrees involving Philosophy.
Many faculty members have a worldwide reputation and the library and other facilities are acknowledged as among the best in the country.
The study of philosophy develops analytical rigour and the ability to criticise and reason logically.
It allows you to apply these skills to questions ranging from how we acquire knowledge and form moral judgements to the nature of language, art and literature.
Since many works of literature are shaped by the dominant philosophical ideas of their epoch, study of philosophy can illuminate that intellectual background.
The course involves extensive study of at least one ancient language, but candidates do not need to have any prior knowledge of either Greek or Latin.
In previous years Oxford offered two separate Classics courses: Classics Course I (Q800) – for those who had studied Latin and/or Greek to A-level or equivalent; and Classics Course II (Q810) – for those who had not studied Latin or Greek to A-level or equivalent.
Following a redesign of the degree structure, there is now just one course (Classics – Q800) which is for all candidates, whether or not they have any prior experience of Latin or Greek.
Those with an A-level or equivalent in at least one classical language will follow a dual-language stream (Latin and Greek); those without can choose to follow either a Latin or Greek stream.
Fieldwork is not a requirement in any part of the course, but some undergraduates may participate in archaeological excavations.
If you’re interested in studying Classics but your personal or educational circumstances have meant you are unlikely to achieve the grades typically required for Oxford courses, then choosing to apply for Classics with a Foundation Year might be right for you.
'Classics is a fabulous course in part because there is something for everyone.
When it comes to Greats [final exams] ...
I think there are about 80 options, of which we can only choose eight.
This means that, although when I arrived here I thought I'd be a literature buff, I actually have become a "philosopher" of sorts.
I have been able to take five philosophy options ranging from Plato and Aristotle to Theory of politics and Philosophy of language, and I've loved it!'
Heather
'I was attracted to the Classics course at Oxford because of its diversity and commitment to learning Latin and Ancient Greek.
During the first two years, as well as intensive language classes designed to advance your ability quickly to read texts in the original language, I had the opportunity to choose from options covering topics from philosophy to ancient art.
I have particularly enjoyed being on the Undergraduate Joint Consultative Committee, in which faculty members consult undergraduates for their input on the workings of and changes to be made within the department.'
Laura
'Studying Classics prepared me for managing an enormous and varied workload.
Picking apart essays with my tutors prepared me for editing other people's writing.
It also gave me a good foundation of knowledge for publishing translations.'
Emma
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Classics.
Your time will be divided between lectures, tutorials and private study.
The working week is typically structured around two tutorials in different subjects.
Most of your independent work will be in preparation of essays for your tutorials, although systematic language-learning and reading of texts will also require considerable time and effort.
Much of the teaching will take place in your college, but lectures are given in the Classics Faculty and the Examination Schools, and for particular subjects you may also work with tutors from other colleges.
Visit the Classics website for more information.
Tutorials in colleges usually involve up to three students and a tutor.
Class sizes will vary depending on the options you choose, and there are usually 5-10 students in a class.
Some classes are jointly taught by two tutors at the same time.
For centrally organised language classes in Classics, there are usually 8-10 students in a group.
Most tutorials, classes, and lectures are delivered by senior staff who are active researchers in their subject.
Some teaching may be delivered by qualified postgraduate students studying at doctoral level.
Dual-language stream (Latin and Greek, for those who have studied Latin and/or Greek to A-level or equivalent)
First University examinations : nine papers, including four language papers.
One of the papers is examined by a portfolio of three pre-submitted essays.
Latin stream (Latin only, for those who have not studied Latin or Greek to A-level or equivalent)
For further details of the course structure and the options available , please visit the Classics website.
If your personal or educational circumstances have meant you are unlikely to achieve the grades listed above for undergraduate study, but you still have a strong interest in the subject, then applying for Classics with a Foundation Year might be right for you.
Visit the Foundation Year course pages for more details of academic requirements and eligibility.
All candidates must take the relevant section(s) of the Classics Admissions Test (CAT) as part of their application.
Read further guidance on the submission of written work .
Successful candidates will be expected to display general language aptitude, including competence in Latin or Greek if they are studying the classical language(s) to A-level or equivalent.
Tutors are also looking for potential and an enquiring mind, and a real commitment to this wide-ranging subject.
The ability to sustain an argument is also important.
Visit the Classics website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course .
The breadth of subjects studied and variety of skills learned to a high level leave Classics graduates in high demand among employers.
Careers for recent Classics graduates include teaching, the Civil Service, the media, film production, the law, publishing, and further classical study.
James works for the Foreign and Commonwealth Office.
He says: ‘Following four years of excellent teaching in an astoundingly varied field, the intellectual rigour developed at Oxford has taken me from negotiating for the UK at the United Nations to learning Mandarin and representing the UK in China.
Classics provided me with the perfect platform, and more importantly gave me four wonderful years steeped in the fascinating classical world.’
Menai is a project manager for Kent County Council.
She says: ‘I joined Kingfisher Retail and subsequently WHSmith.
I then worked for a charity and finally moved to local government.
The training in logical thinking and a questioning approach I developed while studying for my degree have been invaluable.’
There are no compulsory costs for this course beyond the fees shown above and your living costs.
Classics Open Day - 24 March 2025
Why not explore some websites which have excellent links to historical and archaeological materials, such as the British Museum or Oxford’s own Ashmolean Museum collection highlights .
You could also have a look at BBC Radio 4's archives , for example for the programme In Our Time which covers material on history and culture .
There are also many websites which you can have a look at such as Classics Confidential and Oxford Classics Outreach .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/classics-and-asian-and-middle-eastern-studies:
UCAS code: Q8T9 (Classics with Asian and Middle Eastern Studies); T9Q8 (Asian and Middle Eastern Studies with Classics) Entrance requirements: AAA (with As in Latin and Greek if taken) Course duration: Q8T9: 4 years (BA); T9Q8: 3 or 4 years (BA) depending on language chosen
Unistats information for each course combination can be found at the bottom of the page
This course allows you to combine the study of an Asian or Middle Eastern language and culture with Latin and/or Greek and the study of the ancient world.
There are two options: Classics with Asian and Middle Eastern Studies (Q8T9) and Asian and Middle Eastern Studies with Classics (T9Q8).
In each case the subject mentioned first is the main subject (about two-thirds of the degree) and the second is an additional subject (about one-third of the degree).
This joint honours degree provides an exciting opportunity for students who want to focus on interdisciplinary studies.
It enables students to explore the cultural development and crossover in places such as the Middle East, Iran, Egypt and India.
You will study the relationship between the languages and cultures of the great monotheistic religions within their various Greek and Roman contexts.
Those who choose Arabic, Persian or Turkish as their main language for the Asian and Middle Eastern Studies with Classics degree will spend their second year undertaking immersive language study abroad.
">Video of Classics and Oriental Studies at Oxford University
Please note that the course video on this page was filmed prior to the renaming of the course and of the Bodleian Art, Archaeology and Ancient World Library.
Oxford is ideally placed for the combined study of Classics and Asian and Middle Eastern Studies, not least due to the numerous and varied teaching staff in each faculty, and the resources of the Ashmolean Museum , the Bodleian Art, Archaeology and Ancient World Library and the China Centre .
The Nizami Ganjavi Library has core collections comprising Islamic, South Asian and Jewish Studies.
Oxford has the largest Classics faculty in the world, with over sixty full-time academic staff-members.
It has outstanding teaching, library and museum resources, including the Bodleian Art, Archaeology and Ancient World Library and other Bodleian Libraries, the Ashmolean Museum and a designated Classics Centre.
'The course is an enriching opportunity to broaden the usual frontiers of the study of Classics, by adding to it one language considered to be culturally external to the Greek and Roman civilisations.
The languages to choose between are numerous, each of which has the potential to change your perspective both of Classics and of the world.
On the other hand, the study of Classics will teach you a lot about how to look at the language of the [Asian and Middle Eastern Studies] part.
I am reading Classics with Arabic.
Having chosen a linguistics paper for Mods (second-year examinations), which focuses on Indo-European, the study of Arabic, a Semitic and unrelated language, is fascinating.
In many ways, this course can be remarkably stimulating for students who wish to learn about linguistics.
You can choose to take Sanskrit or Armenian, for example, both instrumental in understanding Indo-European.'
Dominique
'I’m a third year studying Classics and Arabic, and absolutely love both my college and my course.
Classics is fantastic if you’re not quite sure what you like: you can do literature, philosophy, history, and some fairly hard-core linguistics along the way.
I did a linguistics paper and a modern philosophy paper for my second year exams ...
After those first exams, I chose five Classics papers from a vast range of options, alongside my three Arabic papers.
I’m focusing on Greek history and Latin literature, though I’m considering a Byzantine paper as well.
The Arabic classes are two hours long, three times a week.
This was a bit of a shock to start with but it is really satisfying to come away knowing so much more after each class.
Arabic grammar is fiendish, but I haven’t come across anything as bad as Greek -mi verbs yet!'
Clare
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for  this course.
Much of the teaching will take place in your college, but lectures are given in the Classics Faculty, the Asian and Middle Eastern Studies Faculty and the Examination Schools, and for particular subjects you may work with tutors from other colleges.
Class sizes will vary depending on the options you choose, and there are usually 5-20 students in a class.
Most tutorials, classes, and lectures are delivered by academics who are specialists in their subject.
Some teaching may also be delivered by qualified postgraduate students studying at doctoral level.
Follow the course for Classics (refer to Classics pages )
Carry on with Classics options and start with chosen language from:
First University examinations in Classics (refer to the Classics course page )
Final University examinations: eight written papers (five in Classics, three in Asian and Middle Eastern Studies); one paper may be substituted by a thesis.
Select main language:
Carry on with Asian and Middle Eastern Studies options and choose either Greek or Latin
First University examinations in Asian and Middle Eastern Studies (refer to  the Asian and Middle Eastern Studies course page)
Final University examinations: eight to ten written papers (five to seven in Asian and Middle Eastern Studies, three in Classics)
CAT
Two pieces of written work.
Where possible, at least one of these should be in an area relevant to Classics.
Please contact the admissions office at your chosen college if you have any further questions about the submission of written work.
For further details, visit the Classics and the Asian and Middle Eastern Studies pages.
Tutors in both Classics and Asian and Middle Eastern Studies are also looking for potential and an enquiring mind, and a real commitment to this wide-ranging subject.
Visit the Classics website and Asian and Middle Eastern Studies website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
Students develop good linguistic and analytical abilities and will be very attractive to employers from a wide variety of sectors.
Knowledge of a modern language opens up opportunities for careers with international companies and organisations.
Are you interested in this course?
You might also like to consider our other Classics or Asian and Middle Eastern Studies courses.
You could also take a look at the relevant reading list for:

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/classics-and-english:
UCAS code: QQ38 (Classics and English); QQH8 (Classics and English with Beginners' Latin or Greek) Entrance requirements: AAA (with As in Latin and Greek if taken) Course duration: 3 years BA in Classics and English; 4 years BA in Classics and English with Beginners' Latin or Greek
Required subjects: English Literature or English Language and Literature Recommended subjects: Not applicable Helpful subjects: Latin, Ancient Greek, Classical Civilisation, Ancient History or a modern language
Admissions test: CAT Written Work: Two pieces
Interviewed: 89% Successful: 25% Intake: 14 Successful for a different course: 9% Applicant intake for a different course: 6 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 271055 Email: [email protected]
The Classics and English degree at Oxford gives students the opportunity to study the literature and culture of the ancient and modern world, both separately and in comparison; to trace ideas, forms, and genres across cultures and time; and to think about continuities and change in how people think, write, and imagine their world.
All students study either Latin or Greek or both, so that they can encounter ancient literature in the original language(s).
Candidates with an A-level or equivalent in either Latin or Greek take a three-year course.
Candidates who have not had the opportunity to study either classical language to A-level or equivalent take Classics and English with Beginners’ Latin or Greek.
This is a four-year course which includes a preliminary year, in which students learn Latin or Greek alongside some study of classical literature.
">Video of Classics and English at Oxford University
You can choose to specialise in what you find most interesting from each side of the course, taking a range of options in English literature, and in ancient literature, history, philosophy, and linguistics.
But the degree also integrates the two sides of its course, offering several papers designed specifically for the kind of comparative work that the course encourages.
In the first year (second, for Classics and English with Beginners' Latin or Greek), students take a paper in English literature of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries – the period during which writers were most consistently and intensely engaged with the languages and literatures of ancient Greece and Rome.
Among the highlights of the latter two years are the four ‘link papers.’ All students take Epic, and read and compare authors such as Homer, Virgil, Milton, Alice Oswald, and Derek Walcott.
Students then choose to take either Comedy, Tragedy, or Reception (in which you study the reception of ancient literature in 20th-century poetry).
Students who choose to take up a second classical language in their penultimate year only take one of the link papers.
The final-year dissertation allows students to pursue an independently devised topic with an expert supervisor, which may combine the subjects or focus on an aspect of one of them.
All of the courses allow students to pursue the twists and turns of literary genres across time.
Oxford has a long and distinguished tradition of research and teaching in both Classics and English, and possesses remarkable library provision in both subjects.
Oxford has the largest Classics department in the world, with over sixty full-time academic staff-members.
Resources include the Bodleian and Bodleian Art, Archaeology and Ancient World Libraries, the Ashmolean Museum and a designated Classics Centre.
The English Faculty is the largest English department in Britain.
Students are taught in tutorials by scholars active in their research field, many of whom also give lectures to all students in the English Faculty.
You will therefore have the opportunity to learn from a wide range of specialist teachers.
Library provision for English at Oxford is exceptionally good.
All students have access to:
If you’re interested in studying Classics and English but your personal or educational circumstances have meant you are unlikely to achieve the grades typically required for Oxford courses, then choosing to apply for Classics and English with a Foundation Year might be right for you.
Please visit our Foundation Year course pages for more details.
'I was able to learn Ancient Greek from scratch here.
It didn’t come naturally to me, but with an hour-long class almost every day for a year I was doing prose composition by my third term.
Doing a joint honours course allows you to bring different perspectives to all of your subjects.
Thinking about Renaissance literature with knowledge of the Classics means you have a very different perspective from someone studying straight English, for example.
It’s a unique kind of literary criticism.
If you think idiosyncratically and are interested in everything, then this is definitely the course to do.'
'Classics & English at Oxford is an excellent course for those who have a real interest in how the two subjects interact; not only through the fascinating range of link papers available, but also through the number of other papers associated with only one half of the course.
There is so much choice, and such personalised teaching due to the small year size, that there are always opportunities to specialise in your own interests, which is a real privilege.
I have also been able to study both Greek and Latin from scratch since starting at Oxford, which makes for a deep understanding of classical and modern languages, and a far richer understanding of literature.'
'The Classics and English link papers really set the course apart from equivalent courses at other universities, allowing you to get a real sense of how classical texts have influenced English ones, and how writers in English have responded to classical texts.
My favourite paper was probably one that focused on classical receptions in twentieth-century poetry, for which I wrote an extended essay on 1960s plays by Nigerian playwrights that were adaptations or translations of Greek plays, which really brought home to me the persistent relevance of classical literature and the continuing power of the classical world to express and explore modern tensions.'
Francesca
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Classics and for English.
A typical week is structured around two tutorials in different subjects, with the rest of your time divided between lectures, classes (including languages classes) and private study.
Most of your work will be preparation of essays for tutorials (you will be expected to produce between eight and twelve pieces of written work during a term); however, language-learning and reading will also require considerable time.
Much of your teaching will take place in your college, but you will typically attend three to four lectures a week in either faculty.
Tutorials are usually up to three students and a tutor.
Class sizes may vary depending on the options you choose.
There would usually be no more than around 15 students.
This table is a summary of the three-year course.
Candidates who have not had the opportunity to study either classical language to A-level or equivalent have a preliminary year studying Latin or Greek, and then follow the structure outlined below.
Students taking Classics and English with Beginners’ Latin or Greek spend a preliminary year learning Latin or Greek, alongside some study of classical literature.
They then progress to Year 1 and follow the same programme as other Classics and English students.
Five papers are taken:
Four written papers form the first University examination, together with a submitted portfolio of two essays for Introduction to English language and literature.
All exams must be passed, but marks do not count towards the final degree.
Up to three papers examined as coursework (extended essays and dissertation).
The remaining papers will then be examined by final written examinations.
If your personal or educational circumstances have meant you are unlikely to achieve the grades listed above for undergraduate study, but you still have a strong interest in the subject, then applying for Classics and English with a Foundation Year might be right for you.
Two pieces of written work, where possible one relevant to Classics and one to English.
Candidates will preferably not submit short, timed essays or exercises answering questions on a short passage of text.
Please view the written work requirements for both English Language and Literature and Classics for further guidance.
Read our further guidance on the submission of written work for general guidance .
Tutors are looking for curious, independent students with a real commitment to the wide-ranging study and comparison of literatures.
Written work helps us to gauge your analytical skills, and your writing.
Interviews allow us to explore your enthusiasm for literature and the comparative aspects of the course, your response to new ideas and information, and your independent thinking and reading.
We expect you to have read widely in English and classical literature (in translation or in the original), and to have an appetite for talking and writing about literature and approaches to it.
However we are not looking for any reading in particular: we are interested in your own ideas, interests, and in seeing how you think.
Visit the Classics website and English website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
Many graduates in Classics and English have entered a wide range of different fields such as:
Philip, now a writer, says:
‘Since graduating I have embarked on a career in writing and journalism.
I have published two novels, write for a wide range of magazines and papers, and am a Contributing Editor to Literary Review , the Periscope Post and Port .
My degree helped me develop the analytical, presentational and linguistic skills that are paramount in the media world.’
Visit the Classics and English pages for KIS data for this course.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/classics-and-modern-languages:
UCAS code: See course combinations Entrance requirements: AAA (with As in Latin and Greek if taken).
Course duration: 4 or 5 years with year abroad (BA).
Required subjects: A modern language (depending on course choice).
Recommended subjects: Not applicable Helpful subjects: Latin, Ancient Greek, Classical Civilisation or Ancient History.
Admissions tests: CAT MLAT (depending on course choice) Written Work: One/three pieces
Interviewed: 95% Successful: 41% Intake: 11 Successful for a different course: 4% Applicant intake for a different course: 1 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 270750 Email: [email protected]
Classics and Modern Languages enables you to combine study of Latin and/or Ancient Greek with a modern language.
The course involves extensive study of major literary texts, alongside training in linguistic skills.
The Greeks and Romans were active in all the countries covered by the available languages.
Not only does studying this course help to give students greater access to the ancient cultures, it is also a chance to examine how classical literature and culture have shaped their modern counterparts.
Some options provide an opportunity to directly compare texts from both sides of the course, focusing on classical influence on modern European literature.
">Video of Classics and Modern Languages at Oxford University
Oxford has the largest Classics department in the world, with over sixty full-time academic staff-members.
It has outstanding teaching, library and museum resources, including the Bodleian and Bodleian Art, Archaeology and Ancient World Libraries, the Ashmolean Museum and a designated Classics Centre.
The Medieval and Modern Languages Faculty is the largest in the country, with a major research library, the Taylor Institution , and a well-equipped Language Centre .
Studying Modern Languages provides both practical training in written and spoken language and an extensive introduction to literature and thought written in European languages.
Students develop oral and aural proficiency in the modern language by regular contact with native speakers and study a broad range of literature from the medieval to the present day.
Classics and Modern Languages students spend a compulsory year abroad.
Options for the year abroad include (but aren’t restricted to):
These all provide valuable experiences for improving language competence.
The University is working with European partners to maintain the opportunities available to its students post-Brexit.
University exchanges, language assistantships and work placements continue to be available as opportunities for your year abroad.
Some year abroad activities provide a salary, and other year abroad funding is available from a variety of sources.
Some of the costs relating to year abroad activity may be subject to variation in the post-Brexit era.
Visit the dedicated Study Abroad webpage for the latest information.
You will need to pay for living costs during the year abroad, including accommodation and travel expenses, and there may be costs relating to visa requirements for travel.
UK students from lower-income households with means-tested assessments will remain eligible for Oxford’s generous bursary provision.
Travel grants may be available through your college and/or the Faculty.
For students who experience particular difficulties related to their year abroad, some hardship funds are also available from the Faculty.
For UK students with a shortfall in their finances, the University’s Student Support Fund can provide additional assistance.
' There’s a strong emphasis on literature in both halves of this degree, but the authors you choose to study can be virtually any from classical to medieval to modern.
There’s a chance to look at other disciplines, too, like history, archaeology, philosophy or linguistics.
Classical influences can be found in all sorts of places, which means you often pick things up quicker in modern languages too.
One of the great opportunities the degree offers is the year abroad.
I spent nine months working for a charity in Argentina teaching English.
I know some have used the time to visit more than one place, or combine volunteering and work.'
Imogen
Your time is divided between lectures, tutorials and private study.
Much of the teaching will take place in your college, but lectures are given in the Classics Faculty, the Faculty of Medieval and Modern Languages, and the Examination Schools.
For particular subjects you may also work with tutors from other colleges.
Tutorials are usually up to four students and a tutor.
Seminar and language class sizes may vary depending on the options you choose or the language you are studying, but there would usually be around 20 students and would often be much smaller.
Some teaching may also be delivered by postgraduate students studying at doctoral level.
Two routes through the course, called ‘options’, are available to Classics and Modern Languages (CML) students.
The two routes are identical in their last two years, and lead to the same final exams; they differ only in their first one or two years.
Please consider the two following routes carefully before you make your decision.
Option A divides its time evenly between Classics (mostly language and literature) and Modern Languages.
This option lasts four years for students who have studied Latin and/or Greek to A-Level or equivalent, and five years for those who are taking the version with Beginners' Latin or Greek.
Option A is also known as the ‘Prelims route’, because you will take a Preliminary Examination similar to that taken by Classics and English or Modern Languages students.
Option B begins with a focus on Classics.
For the first five terms, students take all the same options available to students of Classics :
This option lasts five years, whether or not you have any prior experience in Latin or Greek.
Option B is also known as the ‘Mods route’, because you will take Honour Moderations (first exams) in Classics, which are identical to those taken by Classics students.
Students taking Classics and Modern Languages with Beginners’ Latin or Greek spend a preliminary year learning Latin or Greek, alongside some study of classical literature.
Then they follow the same programme as other Option A students.
As for Classics for the first five terms.
In addition, undergraduates normally maintain their modern language through language classes.
First University examinations in Classics: six/nine papers
Final University examinations: nine papers in total (eight compulsory, one optional) plus oral exam in the modern language.
A thesis may be offered in place of one of the Classics papers.
The options listed on this page are illustrative and may change.
More information about current options is available on the Classics and Modern Languages websites
Candidates who have not studied either Latin or Greek to A-level or equivalent would usually be expected to have studied the modern language before, or to speak it at home or school.
Candidates would usually be expected to have the modern language to A-level, Advanced Higher, Higher Level in the IB or another academic equivalent.
Candidates who are not taking the language in one of these qualifications may still be considered, if they have attained proficiency in the language at level B1 in the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR).
CEFR is an international standard to describe language ability on a six-point scale (A1, A2, B1, B2, C1, C2) from A1 for beginners to C2 for a high level of proficiency.
Many language qualifications refer to one of these CEFR grades to indicate their level.
Please check with your school, testing centre or exam board if you are unsure of the level.
Candidates may apply for Classics with a beginners' language, which allows students to start studying one of these languages from scratch:
Beginners’ courses are not available to candidates who have not studied either Latin or Ancient Greek to A-level or equivalent, and will be taking a beginners' course in a classical language.
CAT: 22, 23 & 24 October 2025
MLAT: 24 October 2025
All candidates must take the Classics Admissions Test (CAT) and, depending on the course combination, the Modern Languages Admissions Tests (MLAT) as part of their application.
Candidates are required to submit one piece of written work for the Classics part of the course.
Please view the Classics written work requirements for guidance on the sort of work to submit.
Written work was previously required for Modern Languages, however this is no longer the case for 2026 entry.
10 November 2025
Visit our further guidance on the submission of written work.
Tutors in both Classics and Modern Languages are also looking for potential and an enquiring mind, as well as real commitment to this wide-ranging subject.
Visit the Classics website and Modern Languages website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
Careers for CML graduates include the media, teaching, acting, management, the law, publishing, advertising and librarianship, as well as working with international companies or organisations.
Liliana says: ‘I chose to do a Joint Schools degree in Classics and French as I was interested in Europe, its languages, and its classical heritage.
Moreover, the breadth of the degree was very attractive, especially for interdisciplinary research ...
I often found myself drawing on my previous knowledge and skills, especially with regard to untranslated texts and reworkings of classical material.
Plus, the range of subjects I’d studied earlier meant I was ever ready to explore new fields and languages.
'I now work in China as a television presenter for programmes on Chinese society, politics and culture.
The meticulous linguistic training from my degrees was first-rate preparation for tackling the puzzle of Chinese characters, while studying the classical and medieval worlds left me ready to take on the rich unfamiliarity of Chinese traditions.
My earlier studies have led to all sorts of new intellectual adventures — whether reporting in Tiananmen Square on the history of the Silk Road, doing a live broadcast in Chinese while paragliding in Guizhou, interviewing world leaders at the Asian Davos, or presenting on endangered minority communities in Sichuan.
Studying the European past gave me, paradoxically, the right tools for understanding the Chinese present.'
We recommend that students begin to research the costs associated with the various year abroad options as early as possible in the second year of the course.
There is plenty of support, information and advice to help you.
Work placement costs, study costs, visa costs and living costs (such as accommodation) and travel expenses will vary depending on the destination and the activity undertaken.
Certain year abroad activities may provide a salary, depending on placement type and terms.
Travel grants and financial assistance for those with insufficient funds may also be available through your college, the faculty and the University.
At present, students taking part in approved study exchanges supported by the Turing scheme do not pay tuition fees to other institutions.
However, for some destinations, additional charges, which apply to all students at that institution, may be payable.
If you study outside the Turing scheme framework, you will be liable to pay course fees and any other applicable charges to the relevant institution.
You can find the latest information about the Turing scheme at Oxford, on our dedicated webpage .
The Faculties of Classics and Medieval and Modern Languages run dedicated outreach programmes, events and activities aimed at promoting their subjects and supporting talented students from all backgrounds to apply to the course.
The Faculty of Medieval and Modern Languages are involved in a range of events and activities, both to inspire students to pursue language degrees at university and to work with schools and colleges in encouraging students to continue languages to GCSE and A-level (or equivalent).
They promote the value of language study a s well as the opportunities and careers a degree in languages can create .
UK state school students interested in classical subjects and modern languages can apply to UNIQ , Oxford’s flagship outreach programme for students in their first year of further education.
Anyone interested in studying Classics and Modern Languages at Oxford is encouraged to explore details of subject-specific opportunities and resources on the Faculty of Classics website and the Faculty of Medieval and Modern Languages website .
+44 (0) 1865 270481 [email protected] www.mod-langs.ox.ac.uk/schools-liaison-and-outreach
Option A lasts four years for students who have studied Latin and/or Greek to A-Level or equivalent, and five years for those who are taking the version with Beginners' Latin or Greek.
For Option B, students take all the same options available to students of Classics for the first five terms.
Visit the Structure tab for more details about Options A and B for Classics and Modern Languages.
Modern Languages Open Day - 17 May 2025
You might also like to consider other Classics or language courses.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/computer-science:
UCAS code: G400 Entrance requirements: A*AA including Maths, with the A* in Maths, Further Maths or Computer Science.
Course duration: 3 years (BA); 4 years (MCompSci)
Required subjects: Maths Recommended subjects: Further Maths Helpful subjects: Not applicable
Admissions tests: MAT Written Work: None
Interviewed: 19% Successful: 6% Intake: 51 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 283507 Email: [email protected]
Computer science is about understanding computer systems and networks at a deep level.
You will use your understanding of mathematical reasoning to reason rigorously about the behaviours of computer programmes and systems.
This course concentrates on creating links between theory and practice, covering a wide variety of software and hardware technologies and their applications.
The course offers the opportunity to develop more understanding of Computer Science as a subject, and focuses on the mathematical underpinnings of computer science.
It offers the opportunity to gain practical problem-solving and programme design skills.
The first year and part of second year you will spend acquiring a grounding in core topics.
Students can then choose from a range of options in Computer Science subjects starting in second year.
In the second year, students take part in a group design practical, which may be sponsored by industry.
">Video of Computer Science at Oxford University
'I love many things about my course.
I love the fact that it’s hard, that it’s very theoretical and that we get a lot of practical work.
Even when the work is a little challenging you’re never lost because there are so many people around to help you.
The tutors really support you at every step and this motivates you to do well.
There are so many wonderful things that I’ve learnt that I never knew existed before.
There are definitely moments when, sitting in front of a problem sheet, you realise that you’re at the right place.
Computer Science is everything I had hoped for.'
Kamil
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Computer Science.
During the first part of the course, a typical week would be made up of around eight lectures, two tutorials and up to two practical sessions.
There will usually be around 8-15 students though classes for some of the more popular papers may be larger.
Lectures can be up to 120 students.
As the course progresses there will be opportunity to undertake project work.
There will be a group project in year two, an (optional) individual project in year three and, for those that choose to continue to year four, a large individual project.
Throughout your time studying you will learn from leading computer science specialists and researchers.
Computer Science can be studied for three years (BA) or four years, leading to an award of Master of Computer Science (MCompSci).
Students do not need to choose between the three-year and four-year options when applying to the course.
All students apply for the four-year course, and then decide by the end of their third year whether they wish to continue to the fourth year.
In order to proceed into the fourth year (part C), students will need to achieve a 2:1 or higher classification at the end of their third year.
Four exam papers
Eight exam papers.
Group Design Practical is assessed by a demonstration and presentation.
Six exam papers plus project report, or eight exam papers
* To be confirmed
Five take-home exams or written papers plus project report
A full list of current options is available on the Computer Science website.
Requirement
A*AA including at least an A in Mathematics, with the A* in Mathematics, Further Mathematics or Computer Science.
Those taking Further Mathematics A-level or AS-level are required to achieve at least Grade A.
BTEC:
View information on other UK qualifications , and international qualifications .
View further information on how we use contextual data .
Candidates are expected to have Mathematics to A-level (A* or A grade), Advanced Higher (A grade), Higher Level in the IB (score 7) or another equivalent.
Further Mathematics A-level is highly recommended.* Candidates taking Further Mathematics are required to achieve A*AA including Mathematics and Further Mathematics with the A* in Mathematics, Further Mathematics or Computer Science.
*If your school offers Further Mathematics A-Level we expect you to have taken it.
Please note from 2022-25, 96% of A-level students who were offered places for Computer Science courses (including joint courses) took Further Mathematics to A-level.
Candidates taking Further Mathematics are required to achieve A*AA including Mathematics and Further Mathematics, with the A* in Mathematics, Further Mathematics or Computer Science.
Candidates not taking Further Mathematics are required to achieve A*AA with the A* in Mathematics.
All candidates must take the Mathematics Admissions Test (MAT) as part of their application.
We look for proven mathematical talent, the ability to think and work independently, the capacity to absorb and use new ideas, and enthusiasm.
We use these criteria alongside the Mathematics Admissions Test (MAT) results to decide whom to interview.
At interview, we explore how you tackle unfamiliar problems and respond to new ideas; we are more interested in how you approach problem-solving than the solution.
We don’t require any previous formal qualification in computer science, but we do expect a real interest in the subject.
View the Computer Science website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course .
By studying Computer Science at Oxford, you will open up a world of exciting career opportunities.
Computer scientists are in high demand, as global technology continues to advance at pace, and, with the knowledge, skills and experience you will have as a graduate at Oxford, you can expect to be extremely sought after.
In recent years, our graduates have progressed to careers in a wide range of fields that need an understanding of computer systems, what such systems can (and cannot) do, and how to design them.
Graduates fill technical, managerial, academic, financial and commercial posts, both in the UK and abroad, with jobs ranging from senior software engineers, developers and analysts to games programmers, and technical leads.
More information about career paths are available on the Computer Science website .
The Department of Computer Science runs dedicated outreach programmes, events and activities aimed at promoting computer science and supporting talented students from all backgrounds to apply to the course.
Teachers, school students and parents are invited to join the Department of Computer Science mailing list to hear about upcoming opportunities.
UK state school students interested in computer science can apply to UNIQ , Oxford’s flagship outreach programme for students in their first year of further education.
Anyone interested in studying C omputer Science at Oxford is encouraged to explore details of subject-specific opportunities and resources on the Department of Computer Science website .
+44 (0) 1865 273821 [email protected] www.cs.ox.ac.uk/opendays
Why not have a look at the introductory reading list for prospective students on the Computer Science website ?

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/computer-science-and-philosophy:
UCAS code: IV15 Entrance requirements: A*AA, including Maths, with the A* in Maths, Further Maths or Computer Science.
Course duration: 3 years (BA); 4 years (MCompSciPhil).
Interviewed: 32% Successful: 10% Intake: 12 Successful for a different course: 1% Applicant intake for a different course: 1 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 283507 Email: [email protected]
If you enjoy mathematical problem-solving, would like to learn about computing, but also have wider interests in life and the universe - for example what AI can teach us about ourselves, how it will impact on the world, or how we should react to these huge changes - then this degree might be for you!
Both computer science and philosophy are intellectually exciting and creative, and they have many mutual connections.
The course combines analytical and technical knowledge with discursive, writing and research skills, offering the chance to study with top academics from two internationally acclaimed departments.
">Video of Computer Science and Philosophy at Oxford University
Theoretical links between computer science and philosophy go right back to Alan Turing’s invention of the digital computer, and practical links have grown hugely in recent years as computer systems increasingly impact on almost every aspect of our lives: social, commercial, educational, even political.
Throughout academia and industry, they provide the media of communication and data processing, and increasingly – through artificial intelligence – solve problems that go beyond our human intellectual capabilities.
Computer Science and Philosophy has a ton of great things going for it.
It can cover a wide variety of areas, and is incredibly flexible to allow you to study your particular interests in either subject.
Having never done philosophy before starting the course, I've loved every second of it, having found both tutors and fellow students amazing to work with.
There is a deep overlap in the subjects, and it is immensely rewarding to be able to work in two great fields at once.
Ewen
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Computer Science and Philosophy.
There will be a group project in year two, and for those that choose to continue to year four, a large individual project or philosophy thesis.
Throughout your time studying you will learn from leading computer science and philosophy specialists and researchers.
Computer Science and Philosophy can be studied for three years (BA) or four years, leading to an award of Master of Computer Science and Philosophy (MCompPhil).
Three Computer Science examinations
Two Philosophy examinations
Between four and six Computer Science examinations (according to student's choice)
Between five and nine examinations, including at least three in Philosophy
Computer Science: one examination (or take-home exercise) per course
Philosophy: for each course a three-hour written examination and 5,000-word essay
A full list of current options is available on the Computer Science website .
A levels:
Candidates are expected to have Mathematics to A level (A* or A grade), Advanced Higher (A grade), Higher Level in the IB (score 7) or another equivalent.
Further Mathematics A level is highly recommended.* Candidates taking Further Mathematics are required to achieve A*AA including Mathematics and Further Mathematics, with the A* in Mathematics, Further Mathematics or Computer Science.
*If your school offers Further Mathematics A level we expect you to have taken it.
In Computer Science: we look for proven mathematical talent, the ability to think and work independently, the capacity to absorb and use new ideas, and enthusiasm.
In Philosophy: we look for a critical and analytical approach to abstract questions, the ability to think logically and express thoughts clearly, and a desire to delve deeper into the way we think about things.
You do not need to have previously studied either subject.
Visit the Computer Science and Philosophy websites for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
More information about career paths are available on the Computer Science website .
Anyone interested in studying computer science at Oxford is encouraged to explore details of subject-specific opportunities and resources on the Department of Computer Science website .
Why not have a look at the introductory reading list for prospective students on the Computer Science website?
For an introduction to philosophy have a look at Stephen Law’s The Philosophy Gym or Simon Blackburn’s Think.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/earth-sciences-geology:
UCAS code: F642 (Geology); F644 (Earth Sciences) Entrance requirements: A*AA/AAAA Course duration: 3 years (BA Geology); 4 years (MEarthSci)
Required subjects:  Maths, plus Chemistry or Physics Recommended subjects: Chemistry or Physics Helpful subjects: Biology, Geology, Further Maths
Interviewed: 87% Successful: 22% Intake: 34 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 272040 Email: [email protected]
Earth Sciences is the study of the planet we live upon.
The broad scope and rapidly-advancing nature of the subject is reflected in the course at Oxford, which provides sound and broadly-based scientific training.
We combine physics, chemistry and biology with geology, geography and palaeontology to answer fundamental questions about the origin, development, and future of the Earth.
You will be trained in the skills required for the interpretation of rock materials and geological phenomena as well as applying theory and techniques from other disciplines to the study of the Earth and the environment.
">Video of Earth Sciences (Geology) at Oxford University
You will learn about how our planet works, and address some of the major issues of our times: from the origin of the solar system, the Earth and life, to the climate system and the fate of glaciers and ice sheets.
The diverse range of courses cover processes from the Earth’s interior, as mapped by seismic waves, to the evolution of the Earth’s crust documented in the rocks at its surface.
The department has an international reputation, and houses state-of-the-art laboratories and computing facilities.
Students and academic staff mix and work together.
Offices and teaching labs are close together, creating an atmosphere in which students not only focus on their course, but also get a feel for the discoveries emerging from current research.
The Earth Sciences course includes several field courses.
These link closely to material covered in lectures, and convey the practice of geology, geophysics, geochemistry, and palaeontology in the field environment.
This work culminates in an independent project to study and map an area chosen by the student.
Many of the field courses take place out of term time.
The Department covers the costs of field classes (i.e.
travel, accommodation), so that there are no additional charges for students, and provides safety and geological equipment.
Previous field courses have taken students to Scotland, Spain, Cornwall, Greece, and Bermuda, and the independent mapping projects have occurred globally.
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Earth Sciences.
During Years 1–3, your work is divided between lectures, tutorials, and practical classes.
In Year 4 you have the opportunity for independent work on special topics or in a research laboratory.
Students will find that their scheduled teaching time breaks down approximately as follows for each year:
Students are expected to spend at least 40 hours a week studying, including the scheduled teaching, so a good portion of students' time should be spent on private study.
There would usually be no more than around 20 students though classes for some of the more popular papers may be up to 40 students.
Other than the field courses, all teaching takes place in the department and most tutorials, classes, and lectures are delivered by members of the Earth Sciences Department.
All are world-leading experts with years of experience in teaching and research.
Some teaching may also be delivered by postdoctoral researchers from the department who are experts in their area of research.
Postdoctoral researchers and postgraduate students from the Department will also assist in practical sessions and on field courses.
First University Examinations: Theory and Practical
Part A1 Examinations: Theory and Practical
Part A2 Examinations: Theory
Part B Examination: Theory, MEarthSci (Earth Sciences)
The options listed above are illustrative and may change.
A full list of current options is available on the Earth Sciences website .
Students can apply for a three-year BA in Geology or a four-year MEarthSci.
These are the same for the first three years.
If students are unsure which course they would prefer, it is best to apply for the MEarthSci, as it is easier then to transfer to the BA later on.
Continuation to Year 4 and the MEarthSci is dependent on satisfactory performance in the Year 3.
Students who do not meet the MEarthSci requirements will be awarded the BA Geology.
Tutors are looking for highly-motivated individuals with the intellectual potential necessary to do well on the course.
As part of the interview process, candidates may be asked to comment on geological specimens, or carry out simple calculations, but always with due consideration of their previous knowledge of the subject being discussed.
Visit the Earth Sciences website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
Typical destinations for Earth Sciences graduates include the energy industry, the environmental sector and engineering/ technical consultancies.
Some enter unrelated professions, in which the analytical and problem-solving skills they have developed are highly sought after.
Around 40% continue to study, through a PhD or further master’s course.
Natalie Roberts is a Policy Advisor at Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, based in the Bristol Hub.
She says: ‘My job is to ensure climate adaptation is built into Defra policies, so that targets such as improving biodiversity and water quality are reached, despite the additional pressures of a changing climate.
My degree has helped me to use the evidence available and make decisions with sometimes limited information as well as to understand uncertainty.’
Jo Burton is a sustainability professional.
She says: ‘Many people I've worked with would consider themselves either a "words person" or a "numbers person" - well an Earth Sciences degree teaches you to be both at the same time.
As well as being great for problem solving, this really helps communicating complex concepts to all sorts of people.
As well as skills, my degree gave me a huge respect for our planet, which sits behind my drive and principles as a sustainability professional.’
Martin works in the mining industry for De Beers Canada as a Field Geologist.
He says: ‘My Oxford degree helped me to develop the knowledge, understanding and confidence to approach geological problems in a critical and informed manner.
I appreciated the course’s focus on both the theoretical and practical side of geology.’
Rachael works for BP as a geoscientist.
She says: ‘I am currently working as an Operations Geologist in London for a project based in North Africa.
My degree gave me the technical basis for my career, but more importantly it taught me how to think out complex issues from basic principles and to motivate myself to produce the best results I can.’
Students are required to undertake field work in every year of this course: two trips in the first year and another two in the second year, then one trip in the third year and one more in the fourth year.
Costs for these trips will covered by the department.
You will also need to undertake a mapping project in the vacation between the 2nd and 3rd year, which for most students will involve fieldwork.
The department will contribute £500 to each student, which is considered to be the minimum amount needed to do the project, probably based here in the UK.
Additional funding may be available through your college.
You are very welcome to go further afield if you prefer but you would need to find or raise any additional funding that you need.
Thanks to external donations, the department provides all field and safety equipment free of charge.
The department will also provide first aid kits and additional safety equipment for the mapping project, for a small deposit which is returned to you when you return the equipment.
The Department of Earth Sciences runs dedicated outreach programmes, events and activities aimed at promoting earth sciences and supporting talented students from all backgrounds to apply to the course.
The Department of Earth Sciences offer a variety of exciting and immersive workshops that complement the primary and secondary curriculum, both in schools and in the Department.
They also offer resources for teachers .
UK state school students interested in Earth Sciences can apply to UNIQ , Oxford’s flagship outreach programme for students in their first year of further education.
Anyone interested in studying Earth Sciences at Oxford is encouraged to explore details of subject-specific opportunities and resources on the Department of Earth Science s website .
+44 (0) 1865 272031 [email protected] www.earth.ox.ac.uk/schools

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/economics-and-management:
UCAS code: LN12 Entrance requirements: A*AA (with Maths at A or A*) Course duration: 3 years (BA)
Required subjects: Maths Recommended subjects: Not applicable Helpful subjects: Not applicable
Admissions tests: TSA (Section 1) Written Work: None
Interviewed: 18% Successful: 5% Intake: 83 *3-year average 2022-24
The Economics and Management degree examines issues central to the world we live in.
It namely examines how the economy and organisations function, and how resources are allocated and coordinated to achieve the organisation’s objectives.
Economics and Management are ideal intellectual partners, each particularly fitted to strengthen and cross-fertilise the other.
">Video of Economics and Management at Oxford University
Economics is the study of how consumers, firms and governments make decisions that together determine how resources are allocated.
An appreciation of economics and the general workings of the economy have become increasingly necessary to understand:
It is also becoming increasingly important in both government and the private sector to have an understanding of some of the methods used within economics.
This includes quantitative methods, statistical and causal inference, and experimental methods.
Management is concerned with the effective use and coordination of materials and labour within an organisation in the pursuit of its defined objectives.
Management considers the interrelationship and interactions between distinct parts of an organisation, and between the organisation and its environment.
Students will look at theories, models and frameworks in order to understand how managers behave and to consider their role in the process of decision-making.
The teaching of this course is provided by both the Department of Economics and Saïd Business School .
However, it is not a Business Studies degree.
The programme is taught as an academic subject within the Social Sciences Division of the University.
'Applying to E&M [Economics and Management], for me, was an obvious choice.
Firstly, I feel it is the only course that truly reflects the ‘real world’ – be it by explaining the macroeconomy or the daily problems businesses are faced with – making it both relevant and exciting to study.
Secondly, I find it has the perfect blend of both maths and essays, which helps to keep the course fresh and stimulating in comparison to other subjects.
There is also a large scope for tailoring the course to your own strengths and interests because of the huge variety of modules offered in your second and third years.
Whether you are fascinated by Game Theory or a budding entrepreneur, there is no doubt that you’ll love this course!'
Eva
'I find that Economics and Management is a varied, engrossing, relevant and academically rigorous degree.
The scale and scope of the course is amazing.
This year, I’m studying marketing and strategy as part of my management options, and think I will keep an even split between economics and management as I enjoy being able to study both mathematics and essay-based elements of the course.
The Saïd Business School, where the management part of the course is taught, has everything from an expansive library to a subsidised canteen (which is useful for study breaks!).
The Economics Department is close to the Social Science Library which has every book an Economics student could need.'
'When people ask me how I’m finding my degree, I’m always so happy to say that I really enjoy it.
There is such a variety between all the modules across both Economics and Management, from the more quantitative Financial Analysis to the essay-based General Management and this means I don’t get bored when I have work to do because I can always switch to focus on something completely different.
The course is structured in a way that you learn so much in such a short space of time.
At first you don’t think it’s possible to digest so much information, but very quickly you realise you’re doing it and you’re doing it pretty well too.
E&M is also one of the most useful and directly applicable degrees - you gain a much broader and in-depth knowledge of the world around you, for example the things you hear in the news, from recessions to inflationary shocks.
All in all, I would definitely recommend Economics and Management and I’m very glad I chose it as my degree.' Oyindasola
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Economics and Management.
There would usually be no more than around 20 students, although classes for some of the more popular papers may be up to 40 students.
Three courses are taken:
First University examinations: three written papers
Options selected must include:
More information about current options is available on the Department of Economics website and Saïd Business School website .
Final University examinations: the eight courses are assessed by written examinations in most cases.
Some courses are assessed via coursework.
It is possible to write a thesis in either Economics or Management in place of one optional paper.
All candidates must take the Thinking Skills Assessment (TSA) as part of their application.
You do not need to submit any written work as part of an application for this course.
We are looking for candidates with:
Successful candidates will also show independence and flexibility of thought and an ability to analyse and solve problems logically and critically.
The interview is not primarily a test of existing knowledge and, in particular, is not a test of any economics or management studied previously.
Visit the Economics website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
Oxford graduates in Economics and Management are among the most sought after by employers.
Their current employers include leading international organisations in traditional activities, as well as new start-up companies in a variety of high-tech fields.
Recent graduates have secured positions in banking and finance, consultancy, research, journalism, industry, the Civil Service and teaching as well as a wide range of other sectors.
Imogen now leads Partnerships and VC relations for the Start-up Program at Start-up Grind.
She says:
‘E&M is an excellent degree as it draws on a wide range of skills: you analyse economic theories as well as digest, summarise and communicate key points from the literature.
You have the opportunity and flexibility to tailor the degree to suit your interests - whether that’s analysing complex mathematical models or focusing more on essays.
In my career so far I’ve found the Management material to be particularly useful, especially when I worked in a small start-up and was involved in various parts of the business.
In particular, strategy, marketing and organisational behaviour have been invaluable!’
Dean is an analyst for Greenhill & Co, a leading independent mergers and acquisitions advisory firm.
‘Oxford provided an unparalleled opportunity to enhance my self-confidence, develop thorough analytical skills and hone my ability to communicate in a clear and articulate manner – prerequisites for a career in investment banking.’
The Department of Economics and the Saïd Business School run dedicated outreach programmes, events and activities aimed at promoting the study of economics and management and supporting talented students from all backgrounds to apply to the course.
UK state school students interested in Economics and Management can apply to UNIQ , Oxford’s flagship outreach programme for students in their first year of further education.
Anyone interested in studying Economics and Management at Oxford is encouraged to explore details of subject-specific opportunities and resources on the department websites.
+44 (0) 1865 271098 [email protected] www.economics.ox.ac.uk/undergraduate
+44 (0) 1865 614655 [email protected] www.sbs.ox.ac.uk
Why not have a look at the suggested reading lists for prospective students?
The best introduction to Economics is to read the economics and business pages of newspapers.
Tim Harford’s Undercover Economist and Paul Krugman’s The Accidental Theorist are also recommended.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/engineering-science:
UCAS code: See course options Entrance requirements: A*A*A (with the A*s in Maths, Further Maths or Physics).
Course duration: 4 years (MEng)
Required subjects: Maths and Physics Recommended subjects: Maths Mechanics modules Helpful subjects: Further Maths
Admissions tests: PAT Written Work: None
Interviewed: 38% Successful: 16% Intake: 172 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 283263 Email: [email protected]
Engineering Science encompasses a vast range of subjects, from microelectronics to offshore oil platforms.
The course involves the application of creative reasoning, science, mathematics (and, of course, experience and common sense) to real problems.
The Department of Engineering Science at Oxford has a top-level quality assessment rating for teaching and a world-class reputation for research.
We believe that future engineering innovation will benefit from broad foundations as well as specialised knowledge.
Because of this, undergraduate teaching is based on a unified course in Engineering Science, which integrates study of the subject across the traditional boundaries of engineering disciplines.
Links between topics - in apparently diverse fields of engineering - provide well-structured fundamental understanding, and can be exploited to give efficient teaching.
The Engineering Science programme is a four-year course, leading to the degree of Master of Engineering.
The first two years are devoted to topics that we believe all Engineering undergraduates should study.
In the third and fourth years there is scope for specialisation into one of six branches of engineering:
Decisions about which of these will be your specialisation can be deferred until the third year.
The course is accredited every five years by the major engineering institutions.
Engineering Science is currently accredited by IChemE, IET, IMechE, InstMC and JBM on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
Industrial experience is an extremely important adjunct to an academic engineering education, and undergraduates are strongly encouraged to obtain it.
One way to do so is by being sponsored.
Further information is generally available through your careers teacher, or from the engineering institutions.
If your sponsoring company wants you to spend a year with them before university, you will be asked to declare this at your interview and in your UCAS application.
If you’re interested in studying Engineering Science but your personal or educational circumstances have meant you are unlikely to achieve the grades typically required for Oxford courses, then choosing to apply for Engineering Science with a Foundation Year might be right for you.
Visit our Foundation Year course page s for more details.
'I’m currently designing an offshore device that could convert wave energy in the sea into electricity, to be transmitted back to land.
There are five people in my team, working on this for our third year project.
I particularly enjoy it because I am putting into practice everything that I have been learning over the last two years.
I was attracted by the academic challenge of studying at one of the top universities in the world, and the Engineering Science course at Oxford really caught my eye because students cover a wide spectrum of engineering before choosing specialised options.
I was convinced that the course would provide me with a broad foundation to understand and tackle real-world engineering problems, which cannot be solved solely by one discipline of engineers.'
Stephen
'This year I’m working on a project that involves designing and building wind turbines and the control systems behind it.
The aim of my project is to maximise the efficiency of wind turbines.
The project was actually sponsored by a Scottish company who approached Oxford University; they were looking for someone to cooperate with them in designing and building an unplugged house, which is a house powered by green energy alone.
My project involves building the wind turbine systems… throughout this year I’ve developed a process which is better than existing systems by 5-6% and I think that’s a great achievement for a year’s work.
Hopefully I’ll continue working with them after the term has ended and see my system become a reality.'
Yuan Gao
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Engineering Science.
As a guide, in an average week you will have approximately ten lectures and two college tutorials or classes.
In some weeks in the first two years you will also have up to five hours of practical work.
In the third year each student spends an average of one day a week on their group project work.
The individual project in the fourth year takes approximately two and a half days a week.
Class and tutorial group sizes are designed to allow students to discuss the contents of specific lectures with a tutor and their peers.
In the first two years tutorials are delivered in colleges, typically in groups of 2-4 students.
In the third year the department organises tutorials for groups of up to 4 students.
In the final year class sizes vary, but there are no more than 15 students per class.
Lectures are delivered by the academic staff of the department, who are experts in their areas of research and typically have years of teaching experience.
Tutorials and classes are delivered by a tutor, who might be a member of the academic staff, a postgraduate student – studying at doctoral level – or a postdoctoral research assistant within the department.
Practical laboratory sessions are supervised by experienced academics and technical staff.
More information about current options is available on the Engineering Science website .
First University examinations: four written papers; Assessment of Engineering practical work
Final University examinations, Part A: four written papers; Assessment of Engineering practical work
Final University examinations, Part B: six written papers; Assessment of Engineering practical work; Project reports (Engineering computation and design Project)
A major project, plus six specialist courses chosen from within the areas of:
Final University examinations, Part C: six written papers; Project report
More information about current options is available on the Engineering Department's website .
Advanced diploma in Engineering (Level 3)
BTEC
National Extended Diploma (BTEC) with grades D*D*D or BTEC National Foundation Diploma with Grade D* and A-level grades A*A in Maths and Physics
For candidates who are predicted A*AA, serious consideration will be given to extenuating circumstances, such as disruption to education or bereavement, which have led to under-performance in exams and which are described in their application.
Any offer would be conditional on achieving A*A*A.
If, and only if, you have chosen to take any science A-levels, we expect you to take and pass the practical component in addition to meeting any overall grade requirement.
If your personal or educational circumstances have meant you are unlikely to achieve the grades listed above for undergraduate study, but you still have a strong interest in the subject, then applying for Engineering Science with a Foundation Year might be right for you.
All candidates must follow the application procedure as shown in Applying to Oxford .
The information below gives specific details for students applying for this course.
All candidates must take the Physics Admissions Test (PAT) as part of their application.
The test consists of maths and physics questions, which are mixed in sequence (there are not separate maths or physics sections).
Formula sheets, tables and data books are not permitted.
Calculators have been permitted since 2018.
Guidelines about the use of calculators along with details of the syllabus and links to supporting materials which candidates are encouraged to look at for preparation are available on the Physics website .
Applicants are not required to submit other written work as part of their application.
Enthusiasm for engineering combined with high ability in mathematics and physics is essential for those wishing to study any engineering course.
These qualities will be tested at the interview and combined with an assessment of your predicted and attained examination performance (especially in mathematics and physics, and your PAT score) to decide who will be offered places.
Visit the Engineering Science website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
Oxford Engineering Science graduates work in many different sectors such as:
However, as you may expect, most go on to work in the engineering and manufacturing sector.
Some decide to continue their studies at Oxford, or elsewhere, by working towards a doctorate.
Mark now works as a race strategy modeller at Ferrari and says:
‘My work involves applying mathematical techniques to a variety of engineering problems related to Formula One cars.
One recent example has been with race strategy, where we try to choose the optimum times to pit the car throughout a race and the best tyres to put on.
I believe the reputation of the Oxford engineering degree was an important factor in securing a job in Formula One.’
The Department of Engineering Science runs dedicated outreach programmes, events and activities aimed at promoting engineering and supporting talented students from all backgrounds to apply to the course.
Teachers, school students and parents are invited to join the Department of Engineering Science mailing list to hear about upcoming opportunities.
The Department of Engineering Science is committed to identifying talented, passionate young people, regardless of personal or academic background and encouraging them to make competitive applications to Oxford University.
In partnership with the Waste Environmental Research Trust, the Department runs two separate residential programmes for Year 10 state school students from underrepresented backgrounds.
These Uncover Engineering Programmes offer the opportunity to visit Oxford University and learn more about Engineering Science.
UK state school students interested in engineering can apply to UNIQ , Oxford’s flagship outreach programme for students in their first year of further education.
Anyone interested in studying Engineering at Oxford is encouraged to explore details of subject-specific opportunities and resources on the Department of Engineering Science website .
+44 (0) 1865 273000 [email protected] www.eng.ox.ac.uk/study/support-for-schools-and-young-people
Course option
Biomedical Engineering
Chemical Engineering
Civil Engineering
Electrical Engineering
Information Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
SET awards are Europe’s most important science, engineering and technology awards for undergraduates.
A small number of students from Oxford's Department of Engineering Science choose to enter for these awards each year, gaining recognition for themselves and the department.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/english-language-and-literature:
UCAS code: Q300 Entrance requirements: AAA Course duration: 3 years (BA)
Required subjects:  English Literature or English Language and Literature Recommended subjects: Not applicable Helpful subjects: A language, History
Admissions tests: None Written Work: One piece
Interviewed: 67% Successful: 23% Intake: 211 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 271055 Email: [email protected]
The English Language and Literature course at Oxford is one of the broadest in the country, giving you the chance to study writing in English from its origins in Anglo-Saxon England to the present.
As well as British literature, you can study works written in English from other parts of the world, and some originally written in other languages, allowing you to think about literature in English in multilingual and global contexts across time.
The course allows you a considerable degree of choice, both in developing your personal interests across core papers, and in choosing a topic for your dissertation and for a special option in your final year.
Options have included:
Studying literature at Oxford involves the development of sophisticated reading skills and of an ability to place literary texts in their wider intellectual and historical contexts.
It also requires you to:
The Oxford English Faculty is the largest English department in Britain.
Students are taught in tutorials by a scholar active in their research field, many of whom also give lectures to all students in the English Faculty.
All students have access to the Bodleian Library (with its extensive manuscript collection), the English Faculty Library, their own college libraries and a wide range of electronic resources.
In your first year, you will be introduced to the conceptual and technical tools used in the study of language and literature, and to a wide range of different critical approaches.
At the same time, you will be doing tutorial work on early medieval literature, Victorian literature and literature from 1910 to the present.
In your second and third years, you will extend your study of English literary history in four more period papers ranging from late medieval literature to Romanticism.
These papers are assessed by three-hour written examinations at the end of your third year.
You will also produce:
Submitted work will constitute almost half of the final assessment for most students.
Alternatively, in the second and third years, you can choose to follow our specialist course in Medieval Literature and Language, with papers covering literature in English from 650-1550 along with the history of the English language up to 1800, with a further paper either on Shakespeare or on manuscript and print culture.
Students on this course also take a special options paper and submit a dissertation on a topic of their choice.
If you’re interested in studying English but your personal or educational circumstances have meant you are unlikely to achieve the grades typically required for Oxford courses, then choosing to apply for English with a Foundation Year might be the course for you.
'The real value of Oxford’s English course is its sheer scope, stretching from Beowulf to Virginia Woolf and beyond.
Being guided through all the different ages of English literature means you explore periods and styles you may otherwise have rejected out of hand, discover brand new tastes, and even more levels to your love of literature!
The ability to sit and read some of the greatest works of prose, poetry and performance in a city steeped in its own near-mythological wealth of history and beautiful architecture gives you a sense of being lost in your own fantasy, your own realm of turrets, tutors and texts.'
'I never really had any doubt I wanted to study English.
The course here is so broad, I feel like I'm learning about things I would never have thought to do on my own.
The best thing is probably the amount of freedom we get; we choose which lectures we want to go to, which texts to focus on, and mostly even choose our own essay questions.
It means from the start you really get to explore your own interests, but your tutors make sure you're still preparing for broader exam questions through these.'
Alice
'[The best thing about the course was] the freedom I had to direct my own studies, from choosing the books I wanted to write on, to developing my own specific area of focus within them.
The course was a completely different learning experience from school because I was given the freedom to really work out what I thought about texts without having to worry about meeting assessment objectives or covering key themes.
I've left Oxford knowing that I've really explored why I love literature so much and that I've contributed something individual to the study of literature, even if it ends up being just read by me.'
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for English Language and Literature.
Although details of practice vary from college to college, most students will have one or two tutorials (usually two students and a tutor) and one or two classes (in groups of around 8 to 10) each week.
A tutorial usually involves discussion of an essay, which you will have produced based on your own reading and research that week.
You will normally be expected to produce between eight and twelve pieces of written work each term.
Most students will also attend several lectures each week.
Tutorials are usually 2-3 students and a tutor.
In college, there would usually be 6-12 students and in the department there would usually be no more than 15 students.
There might be specific circumstances in which some classes contain around 20 students.
Three written papers form the First University Examination, together with a submitted portfolio of two essays for Introduction to English language and literature.
Please note that creative writing qualifications, regardless of awarding body, are not accepted and will not help you meet the academic requirements for this course.
If your personal or educational circumstances have meant you are unlikely to achieve the grades listed above for undergraduate study, but you still have a strong interest in the subject, then applying for English with a Foundation Year might be right for you.
As part of your application, you must send us a sample of your written work.
If you are at school or college, this essay should be:
You are welcome to send us any English Literature work that meets the requirements listed above.
This could be a timed essay, a critical commentary, or an excerpt of your coursework or EPQ.
Work can be handwritten or typed – either is fine.
When you send us your work, please be sure to include a cover sheet.
On the cover sheet you should describe the circumstances under which your work was produced.
You and your teacher must both fill in this form.
Tutors will take into account the information you give on your cover sheet when assessing your work.
You’re welcome to submit an excerpt from a longer piece if you think it represents your best work.
If so, please add a note on the cover sheet to explain the context of the excerpt.
If you are a post-qualification or mature applicant, you can decide (although it is not necessary) to produce a new piece of work, as you may want to give a clearer reflection of your current abilities.
We understand that this means it may not be possible to have this piece of work marked, so please use the cover sheet to detail the circumstances in which the work was produced.
For full guidance on selecting and submitting your written work , please visit the English website.
Visit our written work page for general guidance and to download the cover sheet.
Successful candidates will give evidence of wide, engaged, and thoughtful reading.
Written work helps us to gauge your analytical skills and your writing.
Interviews allow us to explore your enthusiasm for literature, your response to new ideas and information and your capacity for independent thought.
We are not looking for any particular reading, or particular answers: we are interested in your ideas and in how you engage with literature.
Shortlisted candidates may also be asked to discuss an unseen piece of prose or verse given to you before or in the interview.
Tutors appreciate that you may be nervous, and will try to put you at ease.
Visit the English website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
Our students go on to succeed in a very wide range of careers: the analytical and communication skills that develop during this course equip them for many different paths.
Popular careers and fields include:
The Telling Our Stories Better project ran throughout 2021, bringing together alumni and current students of the English Faculty to talk about their time at Oxford and their career paths.
Led by Dr Sophie Ratcliffe and Dr Ushashi Dasgupta , and managed by Dr Dominique Gracia, Stories aims to challenge misconceptions about who studies English and the career paths they take.
Why not have a look at the University's collection of literary resources on our Great Writers Inspire site .
You may also like to listen to radio programs such as BBC Radio 4's In Our Time , or one of the University's podcast series .
Alternatively magazines like The New Yorker , or journals like London Review of Books and The Paris Review , contain lots of fascinating long-read articles and essays.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/english-and-modern-languages:
UCAS code: See combinations Entrance requirements: AAA Course duration: 4 years with year abroad (BA)
Required subjects:  A modern language (depending on course choice) and English Literature or English Language and Literature.
Recommended subjects: Not applicable Helpful subjects: Not applicable
Admissions test: MLAT (depending on course choice) Written Work: One piece
Interviewed: 84% Successful: 28% Intake: 29 Successful for a different course: 11% Applicant intake for a different course: 13 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 270750 Email: [email protected]
The English side of the course offers you a choice of options covering a comprehensive span of literature written in the English language from its origins in Anglo-Saxon through to works produced in English-speaking countries across the world in the present day.
The Modern Language study will give you practical linguistic training, encourage you to think coherently about language as a subject of study and introduce you to the extensive and fascinating literatures and thought written in European Languages.
The English and Modern Languages Faculties are both the largest of their kind in the UK, with teaching staff including major scholars in all areas of the respective subjects.
Library provision at Oxford is excellent.
The course is extremely flexible.
In the first year, you will do practical work in your chosen language and study a selection of important texts from its literature.
On the English side, you will be introduced to the conceptual and technical tools used in the study of language and literature, and to a range of different critical assumptions and approaches.
You will also do tutorial work on either early medieval, Victorian or modern literature originally written in English.
In the second year, a variety of options will be available.
Work in your modern language will continue alongside the study of literature from a wide range of periods in English and in your language.
The third year of this four-year course is spent abroad.
On your return, you will choose from a range of special option papers in both English and Modern Languages, and in comparative literature.
The final-year dissertation provides an opportunity to write an extended research piece either on a chosen topic in English language or literature, or a comparative topic bringing together studies in both English and your chosen language.
English and Modern Languages students spend a compulsory year abroad, usually in the third year.
Opportunities for the year abroad include (but are not restricted to):
Some year abroad activities provide a salary, and other year-abroad funding is available from a variety of sources.
Actual costs (such as course fees) and living costs will vary depending on the destination and the activity undertaken.
Travel grants may be available through your college and/or the Modern Languages Faculty.
'I chose my degree since I was interested in the way people spoke and communicated.
I don’t really see English and German as two separate subjects: they are both the study of language, just two different aspects of it.
To understand a country’s literature is to understand their mindset; it filters down into the idiom of the day (just think how much people today quote Shakespeare!) For English I’m not taking the Victorian paper, which is pretty rare.
Instead I’m studying Old English.
My German really helps me with this as the languages are very similar.
If you blended modern English with modern German, Old English is pretty much what you would get; the grammar and morphology are very familiar to someone with my background.'
Alex
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for each option.
Most students will have one or two tutorials a week, as well as compulsory language classes.
Typically, you will also attend three to four lecture courses per subject.
These tutorials may cover different approaches to literary analysis, introductions to some of the texts or other content you are studying, or general cultural and historical content related to your degree.
Tutorials usually involve two to three students and a tutor.
Seminar and language class sizes may vary depending on the options you choose or the language you are studying, but there would usually be no more than 20 students, and would often be much smaller.
Six written papers form the Year 1 examinations including a submitted portfolio of two essays for Introduction to English language and literature.
Papers will be examined by extended essays over the course of the second and fourth years, and by practical and written examinations at the end of your fourth year.
Candidates are expected to have English Literature, or English Language and Literature, to A-level, Advanced Higher, Higher Level in the IB or any other equivalent.
Candidates would usually be expected to have the language to A-level, Advanced Higher, Higher Level in the IB or another academic equivalent.
24 October 2025
Candidates for English and Modern Languages with a Beginners’ Language do not need to sit an admissions test.
All other candidates must take the Modern Languages Admissions Tests (MLAT) as part of their application.
Successful candidates will have an aptitude for their modern language, or for linguistic study if they are picking up a new language from scratch, will read widely and will enjoy writing and talking about literature and language.
Candidates who are shortlisted may be asked to talk about a piece of prose or verse supplied before or in their interview.
Visit the English website and Modern Languages website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
Employers value language skills combined with the many transferable skills of an English and Modern Languages degree including:
These skills mean that graduates in English and Modern Languages go on to careers in a wide range of different fields including:
Knowledge of a modern language opens up opportunities for internationally-focused careers and working with international companies or organisations.
Evie, who studied English and Modern Languages and now works for a social enterprise company, says that her degree gave her ‘an awareness of other places, other cultures, other ways of thinking; in studying a language you are confronted by a different way of constructing a sentence, and even more so, a different way of constructing the world… The skills we have learnt during our degrees are the epitome of transferable skills.’
The Faculty of Medieval and Modern Languages runs dedicated outreach programmes, events and activities aimed at promoting the study of languages and supporting talented students from all backgrounds to apply to the course.
Teachers can request to join the F aculty mailing list to hear about upcoming opportunities.
UK state school students interested in languages can apply to UNIQ , Oxford’s flagship outreach programme for students in their first year of further education.
Anyone interested in studying languages at Oxford is encouraged to explore details of subject-specific opportunities and resources on the Faculty of Medieval and Modern Languages website .
Please note the different course codes for German, Beginners' German, Czech, Beginners’ Czech, Italian, Beginners’ Italian, Modern Greek, Beginners’ Modern Greek, Portuguese and Beginners’ Portuguese.
English Faculty State School Open Day - 8 March 2025

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/european-and-middle-eastern-languages:
UCAS code: See combinations Entrance requirements: AAA Course duration: 4 years with year abroad (BA)
Required subjects: A modern language (depending on course choice) Recommended subjects: Not applicable Helpful subjects: Not applicable
Admissions tests: MLAT Written Work: None
Interviewed: 91% Successful: 37% Intake: 13 Successful for a different course: 4% Applicant intake for a different course: 2 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 278312 [email protected]
The European and Middle Eastern Languages (EMEL) course enables students to combine papers in one of the languages taught in the Faculty of Medieval and Modern Languages with papers in Arabic, Hebrew, Persian or Turkish taught in the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies.
This provides opportunities to take advantage of the cultural links which exist between a number of European and Middle Eastern languages.
For example, appropriate combinations might well be French and Arabic, German and Turkish, or Hebrew and Russian.
However, even some of the less obvious pairings would provide similar cultural and historical linkage.
For example, Spanish and Turkish would be an interesting combination for the history of Sephardi Judaism, while Persian and Portuguese are important for the study of early colonial expansion.
">Video of European and Middle Eastern Languages at Oxford University
Through its long-standing traditions and connections, Oxford has outstanding resources for the study of Middle Eastern and modern European languages.
The Bodleian Libraries , including the Taylor Institution Library , have an extensive collection of books and manuscripts.
The Taylor Institution is one of the biggest research and lending libraries devoted to modern European languages in the world.
Associated with the University is the Centre for Hebrew and Jewish Studies , which houses the Leopold Muller Library with more than 35,000 volumes in Hebrew and more than 7,000 volumes in Western languages.
You will normally spend your second year on an approved course of study in the Middle East.
There are arrangements in place with partner universities and institutions to help you make the most of your time abroad.
In addition to undertaking a study placement, students may also choose to undertake further language study or participate in internships.
Elisa (who studied French and Arabic) says: ‘I did my entire year abroad in Amman, Jordan.
I studied Arabic at a French language and research institute called IFPO which I thoroughly enjoyed and was where my Arabic drastically improved.
Amman is an exciting city with character and Jordan is a beautiful country with many places to visit and sights to see.’
You are strongly advised to spend the adjacent summers in a country where the European language of your choice is spoken.
Past opportunities have typically included undertaking an internship or following a summer course for your chosen European language, which provides valuable experiences for improving language competence.
For UK students with a shortfall in their finances, the University’s Student Support Fund may also provide additional assistance.
In certain circumstances, for example due to visa difficulties or because the health needs of students cannot be met, it may be necessary to make adjustments to a course’s requirements for international study.
'The most important thing that studying at Oxford did for me was to provide me with the confidence to assert my opinions and the ability to substantiate my arguments.
Having to defend your essays to someone a lot more knowledgeable within the tutorial system is a sure-fire way to build your self-assurance!'
'One day you might be studying literature, the next day you might be studying philosophy.
You can also look at history - languages are a vehicle for the exploration of many different fields.'
Shaahin
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for each of our language courses.
Czech
French
German
Italian
Modern Greek
Portuguese
Russian
Spanish
Arabic, Hebrew, Persian and Turkish
Your work will be divided between language classes, lectures and tutorials (one or two a week).
In the first year, the emphasis will be on intensive learning of the Middle Eastern language.
Throughout your course, you will prepare essays for your weekly tutorials and classes, some of which will take place in the Faculties of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies and Medieval and Modern Languages, while others will be held in your college.
Seminar and language class sizes may vary depending on the options you choose or the language you are studying, but there would usually be no more than 20 students and these would often be much smaller.
Final University examinations: nine written papers are taken including a bridging extended essay; oral exam (both languages, but not Hebrew on the Middle Eastern side)
More information about current options is available on the Asian and Middle Eastern Studies website and on the Modern Languages website .
You would usually be expected to have the European language to A-level, or another academic equivalent.
We would not normally expect you to have any knowledge of the Middle Eastern language before starting the course.
All candidates must follow the application procedure as shown on our Applying to Oxford page.
24 October 2024
All candidates must take the Modern Languages Admissions Tests (MLAT) .
Written work was previously required for the European language, however this is no longer the case for 2026 entry.
Tutors will be looking for a good command of the grammar of any language you have already studied at school or college and want to continue studying at Oxford.
They will also look for an interest in its literature and culture.
At interview, tutors will want to find out as much as possible about your intellectual interests and academic potential.
You may be asked about your reading, your interest in the cultures of the relevant countries or the work you have submitted.
You may be asked questions about a short passage in English or the relevant foreign language.
You will be given the opportunity to speak in the relevant foreign language which you have studied to an advanced level.
As far as possible, interviewers will try to let you show your strengths, interest in the subject(s) you intend to study, and reasons for applying to Oxford.
Visit the Modern Languages website and the Asian and Middle Eastern Studies website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
Oxford graduates in these subjects regularly go into highly competitive areas such as:
Recent European and Middle Eastern Languages graduates include a Foreign Office diplomat, a translator at the UN and a journalist at a foreign news channel.
We recommend that students begin to research their year abroad options – including the financial implications – as early as possible in the second year of the course.
Visit the dedicated Study Abroad page for the latest information.
Select each of the following course options to view further subject specific information.
Unistats data for each subject option is available on the Discover Uni website.
Arabic
RT7Q
RT16
RT26
QT76
RT36
RT56
RT76
RT46
Hebrew
RQ7K
RQ14
RQ24
QQ74
RQ34
RQ54
RQ74
RQK4
Persian
RTT6
RTC6
RT2P
QT7P
RTH6
RTM6
RT7P
RT4P
Turkish
RTRP
RT1P
RT2Q
QT7Q
RT3P
RT5P
RTR6
RTK6
Start a Middle Eastern language from scratch and within a year you’ll be studying full authentic texts.
Students interested in this course might also like to consider other Modern Languages courses or Asian and Middle Eastern Studies courses.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/fine-art:
UCAS code: W100 Entrance requirements: AAA / AAB (see admissions requirements tab) Course duration: 3 years (BFA)
Required subjects: Not applicable Recommended subjects: Art Helpful subjects: Not applicable
Admissions tests: None Written Work: Digital portfolio (but no written work submission required)
Interviewed: 23% Successful: 11% Intake: 28 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 276940 Email: [email protected]
Fine Art is the making and study of visual art.
It educates and prepares students to become artists and to follow other practices that are aligned with the making of art.
The curriculum is centred on the individual student’s potential and imagination.
The Ruskin School of Art offers a three-year studio-based BFA course in which students work alongside each other in collaboratively-organised studios.
Whereas many fine art courses run in an environment devoted exclusively to art and design, Ruskin students, as members of a collegiate university, have the advantage of contact with their contemporaries on all of Oxford’s other courses.
The Ruskin course aims to develop strong independent points of view and a mature grasp of the range of critical debate surrounding contemporary art and its many international histories.
Oxford’s short terms, coupled with the ambitious atmosphere at the Ruskin, suit highly-motivated and resourceful students with a good sense of how to organise their time both in and out of Oxford.
The first year of the course is structured to introduce students to one another, to the resources of the school and to the staff involved in teaching and running the Ruskin.
Students will familiarise themselves with their fellow students’ work, take part in group criticism and engage in intensive dialogue with tutors and visiting artists.
The intimate working environment of the school, arranged in two buildings, allows art history, theory and criticism to be treated as integral to the development of studio work.
The Ruskin also enjoys a strong and constructive relationship with Modern Art Oxford (an exciting and influential contemporary art space) and other local and London-based arts organisations.
Students also have full access to the many exceptional University libraries and museums, including the Ashmolean and the Bodleian Art, Archaeology and Ancient World Library.
'Unlike ...
other art courses in the UK, the Ruskin does not require you to specialise in any particular medium.
[And] the interesting blend of academic and practical that this course offers was perfect for me.'
Holly
'My time at the Ruskin was extremely positive...
The majority of the course is structured for independent practice, but the studio environment means there are always people around to bounce ideas off...
The sense of community and support at Ruskin is what makes it stand out, and the course will help nurture your practice in a caring and challenging way.'
Jessica
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Fine Art.
A week will typically consist of several of the following:
Students spend much of their time working in their own studio spaces, where they are supported by specialists in the art-making techniques available at the Ruskin.
Tutorials are usually one-to-one with a tutor.
Typically there are 6-12 students in a group critique (in which students present their work, and discussion is guided by one or two tutors).
There are usually no more than 12 students in any workshop or seminar, around 30 for lectures, and 90 for the all-school visiting speakers’ talks.
Teaching is delivered by staff who are dedicated tutors in their subject.
Many are leading artists and writers with years of experience in teaching and research.
Some teaching may be delivered by postgraduate students who are studying at doctoral level.
Students develop their studio work in discussion with the school’s faculty, tutors and visiting staff.
They are allocated a studio tutor each term, who monitors progress, sets targets and directs them in their studies.
Work is regularly presented and discussed at group critiques involving staff and students from across the school.
Alongside this, workshops and projects are offered throughout the year to introduce a range of techniques and approaches to the making and curating of artwork.
In addition, students attend weekly anatomy classes (including visits to the Anatomy Suite at the Medical Sciences Teaching Centre), in which they explore, and produce work relating to, the human body.
Submission of portfolios of studio-based work, including human anatomy, and an exhibition; three submitted essays in the history and theory of visual culture.
Years two and three are similar in structure to the first year (except for Anatomy, which is taught only in the first year), and continue the tutorial and group crit system introduced in the first year.
All students are required to continue the study of art history and theory and to submit three essays during the second year.
In their third year, Finalists choose a subject for, and research and write, with supervision from a specialist tutor, an extended, 6,000-word essay which is submitted at the end of the second term as part of the Final Examination.
In the lead-up to their final degree show, students are supported with portfolio supervision, and professional practice and exhibition workshops.
Assessment (Year 2) Submission of three history and theory essays, which are assessed as part of the Final Examination
Assessment (Year 3) An extended essay; a portfolio of work made during the second and third years and an accompanying exhibition
Visit the Fine Art website for more information.
Applied General Qualifications:
BTEC and Cambridge Technical Extended Diplomas: DDD UAL Applied General Extended Diploma (2018-): HM (High Merit)
* Post A-level applicants with AAB at A-level (or equivalent) will be expected to submit an outstanding portfolio and to achieve at least a Merit or equivalent on their Foundation course.
If applicants are studying for the UAL Level 3 Applied General Extended Diploma in Art and Design they would be expected to achieve a High Merit.
Portfolios must be submitted digitally, via an online platform called SlideRoom , which will be made available on the Ruskin website shortly after the application deadline.
Candidates who have submitted a UCAS application to study for the BFA programme will be emailed the link to SlideRoom.
There is no prescription for the content of a portfolio.
Candidates should aim to include a range of work which gives a sense of their artistic and intellectual interests and their curiosity about contemporary art and its concerns.
* Read more about the portfolio
Interviews take place in early December.
All applicants are required to submit a portfolio of their art work.
Tutors are looking for work that goes beyond the mere fulfilment of school curricula.
Tutors will seek evidence of a breadth of engagement, a sense of purpose and an emerging artistic voice in the way the portfolio is edited.
If you are shortlisted you will be asked to submit a small number of additional recent pieces of your work to discuss during interview.
View the Ruskin School of Art website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
After graduation, most students go on to work in the arts sector, as practising artists, teachers, curators, fabricators and technicians, in public and private museums and galleries, community arts organisations and for culture and heritage councils and institutions - recent alumni have taken up educational and curatorial roles in major art institutions such at Tate, the Baltic Gateshead, the Hepworth Wakefield and Modern Art Oxford.
Many also pursue careers in architecture, music and theatre, communications, and the film and digital media industries.
Others continue in academia and art writing: Dan Fox (BFA 1998) was for a long time the Chief Editor (New York) of Frieze Magazine, and numerous Ruskin alumni contribute regularly to other leading publications.
Recent graduates have gained scholarships on highly regarded post-graduate programmes including at the Whitney Independent Studies Program, and the Carnegie Mellon School of Art.
Ruskin alumni also teach and research in art schools/departments across the country and internationally.
Many Ruskin graduates have won or been shortlisted for prestigious awards and prizes across many media:
Ruskin graduates have been long-listed for the annual Platform Prize, with accompanying solo exhibitions at Modern Art Oxford:
Ruskin Alumni have regularly been included in Bloomberg New Contemporaries, and the 5-yearly British Art Show.
In the first year of the BFA course, students are provided with basic materials and more specialist materials are available to buy at cost.
There is no expectation for students to arrive with any additional equipment or materials beyond those they may already possess.
Each student receives a materials grant (currently £475) from the Ruskin School of Art for each year of the course.
Finalists also receive a further materials grant (£280) for their work in the final show.
Students are expected to meet any additional costs for materials, and may apply to their college for support in the first instance.
Colleges may also provide support for student projects and travel.
Throughout the course, students are able to borrow an extensive selection of equipment on a sign-up basis.
Final year students normally stage a public exhibition of their work following the final examination and they collectively raise funds for this through sponsorship, art sales and other activities.
Course data from Discover Uni provides applicants with statistics about undergraduate life at Oxford.
But there is so much more to an Oxford degree that the numbers can’t convey.
Tutorials are central to teaching at Oxford.
Unlike in other subjects, where tutorials usually take place in a student’s college, all Fine Art teaching takes place within the Ruskin, including tutorials.
Each student meets their studio tutor at least four times a term, for a 1:1 discussion of their art practice, and also receives an individual essay tutorial for each piece of submitted coursework.
All Fine Art students also have a college tutor, who provides additional support and guidance throughout their studies.
Students will also receive teaching in a variety of other ways.
This will include lectures, seminars, and group critiques, and various workshops and visits.
Read more about tutorials and an Oxford education .
At Oxford, everyone is a member of a college as well as their subject department(s) and the University.
Students therefore have both the benefits of belonging to a large, renowned institution and to a small and friendly community.
Each college or hall is made up of academic and support staff, and students.
Colleges provide a safe, supportive environment leaving you free to focus on your studies, enjoy time with friends and make the most of the huge variety of opportunities.
Each college has a unique character, but generally their facilities are similar.
Each one, large or small, will have the following essential facilities:
All first year students are offered college accommodation either on the main site of their college or in a nearby college annexe.
This means that your neighbours will also be ‘freshers’ and new to life at Oxford.
This accommodation is guaranteed, so you don’t need to worry about finding somewhere to live after accepting a place here, all of this is organised for you before you arrive.
All colleges offer at least one further year of accommodation and some offer it for the entire duration of your degree.
You may choose to take up the option to live in your college for the whole of your time at Oxford, or you might decide to arrange your own accommodation after your first year – perhaps because you want to live with friends from other colleges.
While college tutors primarily support your development, you can also ask their advice on other things.
Lots of other college staff including welfare officers help students settle in and are available to offer guidance on practical or health matters.
Current students also actively support students in earlier years, sometimes as part of a college ‘family’ or as peer supporters trained by the University’s Counselling Service.
More about Oxford colleges and how you choose .
No deferred applications accepted
The Complete University Guide placed the Ruskin as the leading art school in the UK in 2023, 2022, 2020, 2019, 2017, 2016 and 2015.
If would like to read around the subject, the following suggestions are a good place to start:
You might like to look at some online resources, such as ArtForum or the repository of moving image and sound art, UBU Web .
There are also lots of fascinating journals, including e-flux , Frieze and ArtRabbit .
We recommend prospective students attend exhibitions and look at art works as much as possible.
Public art galleries are excellent places to see contemporary art.
The Tate Modern website also has links to articles and videos on contemporary art and artists .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/fycems:
UCAS code: See course options Entrance requirements: AAB Course duration: 5 years (MChem or MEng)
29 January 2025
Required subjects:  A in your most relevant science subject/s (see Admissions requirements tab) Recommended subjects: Not applicable Helpful subjects: Not applicable
March 2025
Places for Astrophoria Foundation Year: Up to 50
Places for Science Foundation: Up to 12
Are you a student from the UK interested in studying Chemistry, Engineering Science or Materials Science?
Have your personal or educational circumstances meant you are unlikely to achieve the grades typically required for Oxford courses?
If so, then choosing to apply for your course with a Foundation Year might be the right option for you.
The Astrophoria Foundation Year is free for students and is designed to be a one-year intensive academic course which will bridge any gaps between school and our academically challenging undergraduate courses.
The programme is carefully designed to build and develop your study skills, subject knowledge and academic confidence.
Students that pass the course will be awarded a nationally recognised Certificate in Higher Education (CertHE) qualification.
If you pass the course at the required level, you will be automatically admitted into Oxford as an undergraduate student if you wish to be, without the need to re-apply.
The Foundation Year Chemistry, Engineering and Materials Science (CEMS) course is designed to give you a solid grounding in key areas, with particular focus on the assimilation of the underlying concepts in these topics so that they can be effectively applied to solve real-world problems.
You will follow a subject specific pathway taking modules relevant to the subject you aim to study at undergraduate level, alongside essential maths modules.
You will develop subject specific problem-solving skills and undertake an independent mini project.
Alongside your academic subject programme, you will take the Preparation for Undergraduate Studies course.
This will help you develop the core skills that will enable you to thrive on a course at undergraduate level, whether at Oxford or another university.
These modules will provide support in building general academic skills including:
Visit the Astrophoria Foundation Year website for further insights into this course and the programme.
Visit the undergraduate course pages for Chemistry , Engineering or Materials Science to find out more about the undergraduate course you'll study after your foundation year.
During your foundation year you will be expected to attend around five hours of lectures and classes per unit per week, participate in regular meetings with tutors to discuss work, carry out independent research and participate in laboratory work.
All CEMS students follow two or three units per week.
Your time will be spent both on academic work for your CEMS programme and work related to the Preparation for Undergraduate Studies course.
In each term you will study modules which will lead to your degree pathway.
In your final term you will complete a written project on a subject related topic of your choice, deepening your subject interest and building your skills in independent study.
Tutorials are usually for around two students and a tutor.
Classes and laboratory sessions are slightly bigger, they may vary depending on the modules that you choose.
There are likely to be around four students in a class or laboratory session, however when the whole CEMS cohort is together, this may include up to 12 students.
Lectures are a larger format again, and are likely to be delivered to the foundation year cohort (up to 50 students) as a whole.
Some teaching may also be delivered by postgraduate students.
To find out more about how Oxford's teaching year is structured, visit our Academic Year page.
Courses depend on your chosen degree:
All students
Examinations: Written papers
Examination: Written papers
All students:
Coursework: Mini project
- Written project of 10,000 words plus illustrations
- Presentation on the project
BTECs:
BTEC Level 3 National Extended Diploma: DDM
BTEC Level 3 National Diploma: DD plus A at A level.
BTEC Level 3 National Subsidiary Diploma: D plus AB at A level.
Access to HE Diploma:
Completion of Access to HE Diploma with all the level 3 credits taken at Merit, and A grades in any A levels taken.
If you meet the eligibility requirements for the Astrophoria Foundation Year, you may wish to apply for a foundation year course when the grades you are likely to achieve fall below the academic entry requirements for your chosen undergraduate course but they meet or exceed the academic entry requirements for your chosen foundation year course.
Subject requirements depend on the undergraduate degree course you wish to study.
All candidates for the foundation year must apply via UCAS.
The deadline for applications for the foundation year is in January 2025.
Please note this is different from the undergraduate course deadline in October 2024.
Now
September 2024
Jan 2025
February 2025
April 2025
May 2025
Offers for Oxford's Astrophoria Foundation Year courses are awarded on academic suitability, and applicants must also meet the eligibility criteria relating to socio-economic and educational disadvantage.
The foundation year is designed to address the education attainment gap associated with factors relating to socio-economic and educational disadvantage experienced by eligible applicants.
The Astrophoria Foundation Year will make academic offers specific to this one year of intensive study, and the offers will take into account the educational disruption experienced by these students.
The courses aim to provide a year of academic study that will help support successful students transition to their chosen undergraduate course.
Currently the programme is open to UK state school students who are ordinarily resident in the UK (home fees status) and meet the academic and eligibility criteria.
Evidence of meeting the eligibility criteria is required during the application process and can be supplied by applicants via the Foundation Year Additional Application Questionnaire.
This will be accessible through the foundation year webpages in due course.
There will also be a full guide to assist in the completion of the questionnaire.
Please note the following eligibility criteria is currently under review and any changes will be confirmed on this page before applications open again in September 2024.
Applicants should be a state school educated student who is ordinarily resident in the UK (with home fees status) and would usually:
You must meet at least one of the criteria in Category 1.
You must meet the criterion in Category 2.
You must meet at least one of the criteria in Category 3.
A verified individual level measure of socio-economic disadvantaged background and/or experienced a disrupted education which may include:
If you meet this criterion in category 4 you are automatically eligible.
State educated applicants with experience of being in care are automatically eligible.
You do not need to meet the criteria in categories 1, 2 or 3, but you may wish to provide us with information in those other categories so that we have a comprehensive understanding of your educational experiences.
Visit the 2024 Eligibility Guide for Applicants for further details about the eligibility criteria for 2024 entry and how it was verified.
The 2025 Eligibility Guide for Applicants will be made available after the eligibility criteria has been reviewed and before applications can be submitted in September 2024.
Our Foundation Year courses are free of charge and there are no course fees.
All tuition and accommodation costs are covered by the University of Oxford.
Students admitted to the Foundation Year courses will also receive a bursary for other living costs.
Due to this financial support, we would typically encourage you not to take out student finance for the Foundation Year (however you will need to apply during your Foundation Year for student finance if you continue to study at Oxford by progressing to a degree course).
Some students may be encouraged to apply for a student loan of £0 during their Foundation Year to enable them to receive additional financial support in the form of a Disabled Students’ Allowance (DSA) (which also means they do not need to reapply in year 1).
Applicants who may be in receipt of a DSA and secure a place on the programme will be contacted by the Foundation Year Team to discuss this.
If you continue to study at Oxford by progressing to a degree course you will need to pay the course fees and cover your living costs (in most cases this is paid by taking out student loans).
Visit the undergraduate course pages or the fees and funding webpages for more information about undergraduate fees and funding.
The other student(s) in your college tutorials will be from your year group, doing the same course as you and will normally be at your college.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/fyhumanities%20:
UCAS code: See course options Entrance requirements: BBB Course duration: 4/5 years (BA)
Required subjects: B in your most relevant subject Recommended subjects: Not applicable Helpful subjects: Not applicable
You may be asked to submit a piece of written work.
Places for Astrophoria Foundation Year: Up to 50
Places for Humanities Foundation: Up to 18.
Are you a student from the UK interested in studying Classics, English, History or Theology & Religion?
The Foundation Year is free for students and is designed to be a one-year intensive academic course which will bridge any gaps between school and our academically challenging undergraduate courses.
The Foundation Year in Humanities course begins with an introduction to the Humanities which will allow you to explore the similarities and differences between the Humanities subjects before moving to more subject specific study.
It will also give you an understanding of what it means to study your subject at undergraduate level.
Alongside your subject you will also have the option to take either one language course or one maths course.
Visit the undergraduate course pages for Classics , English , History or Theology & Religion to find out more about the undergraduate course you'll study after your foundation year.
During your foundation year you will be expected to attend around five hours of classes per week, participate in regular meetings with tutors to discuss work, carry out independent research and you are likely to write at least one essay every two weeks.
Your time will be spent both on academic work for your Humanities programme and work related to the Preparation for Undergraduate Studies course.
In each term there will be modules which will lead to your degree pathway.
In your final term you will complete an extended essay on a subject related topic of your choice, deepening your subject interest and building your skills in independent study.
You may also have the opportunity to learn a language or enhance your maths skills during the foundation year.
Classes are slightly bigger, and class sizes may vary depending on the modules that you choose.
There are likely to be around four students in a class, however when the whole Humanities cohort is together, this may include up to 18 students.
Two courses are taken:
Coursework: four essays
Assessment will vary between Humanities courses but is likely to include:
Coursework: Portfolio of submitted essays, presentations, commentaries on text or images
Coursework: Extended Essay of 5,000 words.
BTEC Level 3 National Extended Diploma: MMM
BTEC Level 3 National Diploma: MM plus B at A level.
BTEC Level 3 National Subsidiary Diploma: M plus BB at A level.
Completion of Access to HE Diploma with all the level 3 credits taken at Merit, and B grades in any A levels taken.
Candidates may be required to submit a recent example of writing.
Normally we’d prefer to read an analytical discussion of a topic or topics related to the subject you wish to study.
Applicants will be notified if any written work is required.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/fylaw%20:
UCAS code: M10F Entrance requirements: BBB Course duration: 4 years (BA)
Required subjects:  Not applicable Recommended subjects: Not applicable Helpful subjects: A subject involving essay writing
You may be asked to submit a piece of written work
Places for Law Foundation: Up to 8
Are you a student from the UK interested in studying Law?
Have your personal or educational circumstances meant you are unlikely to achieve the grades typically required for the Oxford course?
The Foundation Year Law course will enable you to build towards becoming a more independent learner, allowing you to become more adept at and confident in dealing with unfamiliar problems.
The course begins with a broad base and a general introduction to three subjects studied in the undergraduate Law course (Criminal Law, Constitutional Law and Roman Law).
You will study a selection of cases from a variety of subjects and will also complete an extended essay.
Visit the undergraduate course pages for Law to find out more about the undergraduate course you'll study after your foundation year.
During your foundation year you will be expected to attend around two hours of classes per week, participate in regular meetings with tutors to discuss work, carry out independent research and you are likely to write at least one essay every two weeks.
Your time will be spent both on academic work for your Law programme and work related to the Preparation for Undergraduate Studies course.
Classes are slightly bigger, there are likely to be around four students in a class, however when the whole Law cohort is together, this may include up to 8 students.
Coursework: essay portfolio
Examinations: Written exam
Coursework: essay portfolio and submission of extended essay

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/fyPPE%20:
UCAS code: L0VF Entrance requirements: BBB Course duration: 4 years (BA)
Required subjects:  Not applicable Recommended subjects: Maths Helpful subjects: History
Places for PPE Foundation: Up to 8
Are you a student from the UK interested in studying Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE)?
If so, then choosing to apply for PPE with a Foundation Year might be the course for you.
The Astrophoria Foundation Year is completely free for students.
It is designed to be a one-year intensive academic course which will bridge any gaps between school and our academically challenging undergraduate courses.
The Foundation Year in Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE) course is designed to offer students an introduction to the three courses of Philosophy, Politics and Economics.
You will take a 'Foundations in PPE' module, two modules in each of the constituent subjects and a mathematics for PPE module that runs throughout the three terms.
The course will build fundamental writing, reasoning, critical thinking, critical discussion, and communication skills.
With a carefully curated syllabus, you will be guided through problems and arguments and given the opportunity to deploy the concepts and skills you have learned.
Alongside your academic subject programme, students will complete the Preparation for Undergraduate Studies course.
This will help you to develop the core skills that will enable you to thrive at undergraduate level, whether at Oxford or another university.
These modules will provide support in:
Visit the course page for PPE to find out more about the undergraduate course you'll study after your foundation year.
During your foundation year you will be expected to devote at least forty hours per week to your studies.
For the PPE units, you may have around 2 hours of lectures, 2-4 hours of seminars and classes, and 2-3 hours of tutorials in a typical week during full term.
You will also participate in regular meetings with tutors to discuss work, carry out independent research and you are likely to submit 2-3 assignments each week.
Your time will be spent both on academic work for your PPE programme and work related to the Preparation for Undergraduate Studies course.
In each term you will study two of the constituent subjects of PPE (Philosophy, Politics, Economics) as well as a mathematics for PPE module.
Each module should deepen your subject interest and build your skills in independent study.
Classes are slightly bigger, and class sizes may vary depending on the modules you are taking.
There are likely to be around four students in a class, however when the whole PPE cohort is together, this may include up to 8 students.
Four courses are taken:
Coursework: Portfolio of submitted essays
Completion of Access to Higher Education (HE) Diploma with all the level 3 credits taken at Merit, and B grades in any A levels taken.
Helpful:
* Although a background in Mathematics is not an essential requirement for admission, it is recommended, and PPE with Foundation Year applicants should have sufficient interest in, and aptitude for, mathematics to cope with the mathematical elements of the course.
Mathematics is a particular advantage for the Economics and Philosophy components of the course, and for understanding theories and data in Politics.
The following  information gives specific details for students applying for this course.
Applicants will be notified if written work is required.
See the 2024 Eligibility Guide for Applicants for further details about the eligibility criteria for 2024 entry and how it was verified.
Tutorials also allow for close progress monitoring, so tutors can quickly provide additional support if necessary.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/geography:
UCAS code: L700 Entrance requirements: A*AA Course duration: 3 years (BA)
Required subjects: Not applicable Recommended subjects: Geography Helpful subjects: Not applicable
Admissions test: None Written Work: None
Interviewed: 77% Successful: 23% Intake: 74 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 285070 Email: [email protected]
Geography provides a diverse interdisciplinary degree that bridges the natural and social sciences.
It provides enhancement of a broad range of transferable skills, and an education encompassing pressing issues at a range of scales, from local up to global.
The degree spans such key topics as:
The Oxford Geography degree provides a holistic view of the workings of physical and human environments, the ways in which humans are transforming the world and the implications for human societies.
Students are introduced to the full range of geographical topics in the foundational courses, which they can then follow up in more detail in the optional papers, shaping their programme to match their developing interests.
There is emphasis placed on interdisciplinary approaches within the course, with opportunities to explore the intersections between geography and other disciplines from the humanities, social and natural sciences.
The facilities available at Oxford are among the best in the country.
Field equipment used by students for fieldwork reports and dissertations include:
The department also has well-equipped Geolabs for practical physical courses and individual research projects.
These include the Geography Research and Teaching Labs, the Oxford Luminescence Dating Lab and the Oxford Resilient Buildings and Landscapes Lab.
Students are also trained in qualitative research methods that are particularly useful for human geography, such as:
There are opportunities to learn advanced data analysis and coding skills.
The central and collegiate Library resources, electronically and in print are second to none.
The School of Geography and the Environment emphasises the importance of fieldwork since we believe there is no substitute for teaching subjects first-hand.
In the first year, all students take part in:
Second-year students will undertake a week-long overseas residential field course (currently to the Netherlands and Tenerife).
All of this fieldwork is funded by the department.
Independent research, whether field-based, employing geocomputational tools, remote-sensed data, in laboratories, or archives, is also a key element of the dissertation.
'I chose to study geography at Oxford because I loved the idea of being able to study a diverse range of topics that covered all my interests as I enjoy both physical and human geography equally.
So far, it has been great to have a range of different ways to learn, such as lectures, classes and tutorials.
This means no day is the same and you can explore in detail such fascinating ideas and gain new skills from tutors and lecturers that are some of the best in their field.'
Maddy
'I enjoy the course because it allows for breadth across a wide range of topics and depth into the important issues facing the world.
Studying both human and physical geography in first year, whilst gaining proficiency in statistical analysis and field methods, means that no day is the same and there is always something interesting and novel to explore.
Having a solid basis of knowledge across the discipline then provides you with the skills to specialise in the final two years.
The system of lectures in the department and tutorials in your college means that you learn a range of content but have the opportunity to delve deeper into content through writing essays and participating in tutorials that are often 2/3 students to 1 tutor – an offering that you don’t get at most other universities.'
Ted
'I love how much variety there is in the geography course!
Everyone studies both human and physical in 1st year with options to specialise in 2nd and 3rd year.
I arrived thinking I was a human geographer, but I’ve now chosen to study both physical and human modules!
This also means I’ve learnt so many new skills- I’ve learnt how to interview, code, and even track wind patterns using balloons.'
Maya
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Geography.
Tutorials usually consist of 2-4 students and a tutor.
Group sizes for optional departmental seminars and classes may vary depending on the options you choose, but are typically below 20 students.
Most tutorials, classes, and lectures are delivered by staff who are specialists in their subject.
Four written papers: two fieldwork reports; submitted essay on Geographical controversies
Six written papers: three extended essays; fieldwork report; dissertation
The University may cap the number of students who are able to take a particular one.
A full list of current options is available on the Geography website.
Applicants will need to display evidence of a strong academic record.
At interview tutors are looking for a candidate’s ability to deploy their knowledge in ways that show initiative and an awareness of the world around them.
Interviews are not a test of knowledge but give candidates the opportunity to respond in a thoughtful way to unpredictable questions and ideas.
Visit the Geography website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course .
The broad set of transferable skills means Geography graduates have a wide range of career opportunities.
In recent years graduates have proceeded to employment in environmental policy, climate science, communications and media, charities and NGOs including the United Nations, management consultancy, government and politics, conservation and heritage management, the law, banking, finance, teaching, research, and much more.
Karoline, a Migration Policy Officer, says:
‘“Thinking geographically” is still very much part of my work: migration is a matter which can only be properly understood from a multi-disciplinary perspective.
Not only is it useful that I was as used to reading studies about migration dynamics as I was to understanding the latest report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change… the very Oxfordian skill to be able to turn out concise written work in super-short timeframes is trained and tested on nearly a daily basis!’
You can read more on alumni profiles on the Geography website.
First year students attend a four-day residential field course in the UK during their first term.
The cost of the field trip is borne by the School of Geography and the Environment and there is no charge to students.
Students are also required to undertake a one-week field trip in their second year and currently have a choice between trips to the Netherlands or Tenerife.
There is no additional charge to students for the fieldtrip.
These field trips provide students with the opportunity to learn and practice the field research skills that they will employ in their own dissertation research.
Some of the projects students have had the opportunity to undertake on previous trips include pilot balloon tracking of trade winds and monitoring of microclimates using i-button data in Tenerife and studying urban natures and environmental governance of transport systems in the Netherlands.
Students have to write a report of their research which is assessed as part of the final examinations.
Geography Open Day - 16 June 2025
Oxford Geography is ranked number one in the 2024 QS World University rankings, by subject.
Why not listen to some of the School of Geography and the Environment’s lectures ?
You might also like to take a look at our recommended resources for further reading .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/history:
UCAS code: V100 Entrance requirements: AAA Course duration: 3 years (BA)
Required subjects: Not applicable Recommended subjects: History Helpful subjects: Not applicable
Admissions tests: None in 2025 Written Work: One piece
Interviewed: 73% Successful: 23% Intake: 212 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 615000 Email: [email protected]
Oxford’s History course combines the examination of large regions over extended periods of time with more focused work on smaller social groups, shorter periods and particular themes.
It provides a distinctive education by developing an awareness of the differing political, cultural, social and economic structures within past societies and how they interrelate.
The course combines vigorous debate over questions of interpretation with rigorous attention to source material, while the constant enrichment by cross-fertilisation from other disciplines leads to new questions about the past.
">Video of History at Oxford University
Oxford is celebrated for the broad chronological sweep of its courses and the enormous amount of choice offered.
Students can study options on any part of British and European history from the declining years of the Roman Empire to the present day.
The geographical range is also broad: there are options on North American, Latin American, Asian and African history (visit the department website for further details).
Students are encouraged to adopt a variety of interdisciplinary approaches to their work, and the faculty is strong on intellectual and cultural history options.
The Oxford History Faculty is at the forefront of research.
Oxford also possesses exceptional library provision for History in:
'In the past year I’ve studied a wide range of topics on aspects of history I’d never even considered before, spanning from monasticism in the 11th Century to the French Revolution and Napoleon.
I also did some papers in sociology and art history, which helped me find new perspectives and ways to approach my work.
I love the diversity of my courses, and the fact I have control over every term’s study.
The tutors are flexible too, meaning I can choose essays on topics which interest me.
The library provision for History is amazing: wherever I work, I feel like I’m inside a historical attraction rather than just reading about them!'
Christy
'The best thing about my course is the freedom.
Right from the start I was given the choice of 7 different time periods, and since then have had the opportunity to study a range of topics and periods, finding out what I like most.
One term, I was studying Europe and the world in the 19th Century, the next I was doing a source-based module on medieval crime and punishment.
It's so great to have the freedom to pursue my own interests, and gives me a real sense of control over my studies.
Plus, the tutors are fantastic (not as scary as I'd imagined!) and genuinely consider my thoughts and ideas, despite knowing so much about the topic themselves!'
Chloe
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for History.
During the first year, you will be expected to attend around five lectures each week, participate in regular meetings with tutors to discuss work, conduct independent research and write at least one essay a week.
In the second and third years you will have the opportunity to choose from an enormous variety of lectures, and your regular tutorials will be supplemented by faculty classes where you will discuss work with a larger number of students.
The third-year thesis will give you the opportunity to engage in a piece of independent research.
Generally students are very much in charge of their own timetable throughout their course.
There would usually be no more than around 12 students although the more popular classes may include up to 30 students.
First University examinations: four timed, written papers.
Six courses are taken:
Final University examinations: five written papers; one extended essay; one thesis; an additional thesis may be offered.
If you’re interested in studying History but your personal or educational circumstances have meant you are unlikely to achieve the grades typically required for Oxford courses, then applying for the course with a Foundation Year might be right for you.
You do not need to take a written test as part of an application for this course in 2025.
All candidates for History courses are required to send in an argument-driven essay on a historical topic, written as part of their normal school or college work.
Please do not send work that requires the assessor to read any source material; avoid source analyses or commentaries.
The essay should be a maximum of 2000 words .
Extracts from longer essays or pieces of project work are permissible, but should be selected so that they can stand alone and show the candidate's ability to make an argument.
Please do remember to include the question which the essay is seeking to answer.
If these requirements cause any problems, please contact the Tutor for Admissions at your college of preference .
Note that in selecting work for submission you should choose a piece which has enthused you and on which you are willing to talk.
Do not worry if you have changed your mind on the topic since writing it.
Tutors are impressed by candidates who remain intellectually engaged with their work.
Written work must be accompanied by a signed certificate (confirmed by the school or college) stating the circumstances under which the work was written.
Visit our further guidance on the submission of written work for more information, and to download a cover sheet.
Tutors are looking for intellectual curiosity as well as a flexible approach to engaging with unfamiliar concepts or arguments and an enthusiasm for history.
If you are shortlisted, you may be asked to discuss your submitted written work and personal statement during interview.
Candidates may also be asked to read and talk about a short passage as part of the interview.
Visit the History website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
History graduates go on to follow diverse careers in fields such as:
Edward, a curator, says: ‘My degree helped me acquire a position with the Pendle Heritage Centre and then at Historic Scotland.
Afterwards I became a curator for the National Museum of the US Navy.’
David, who is now a history teacher, says: ‘A History degree was a prerequisite to teaching history to A-level and IB, but the Oxford degree accelerated my career path, allowing me to step straight into a position at an academic school.
I use my degree on a daily basis, in teaching a wide range of historical topics as well as advising students about Oxford.’
Robin is the Managing Director of Schneider-Ross.
He says: ‘On graduating, I joined Esso UK.
Having met my wife there, in 1989 we decided to set up our own consultancy, Schneider-Ross, specialising in global diversity and inclusion.
I feel History gave me all the skills I’ve called on to analyse data, make arguments and convince people of the need to change… and the confidence to work at board level with FTSE 100 companies (it’s just like a tutorial really).’
Sian says: ‘Since graduating I have worked as assistant brand manager on Pringles and Braun at Procter & Gamble.
My degree taught me analytical skills, time management and the ability to think critically, all of which are crucial in my role.’
With more than 180 historians, Oxford's submission to REF 2021 was by far the largest in the United Kingdom.
More than 50% of our research* was ranked as 4* (world leading) putting us no.
1 in the country for 'research power'.
*Overall profile, impact and environment.
Visit the REF website for more detail .
Why not have a look at some History magazines such as History Today or BBC History (which also has weekly podcasts ).
You may also like to explore the British Museum website or BBC Radio 4 archives , both of which have excellent links to historical materials.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/history-ancient-and-modern:
UCAS code: V118 Entrance requirements: AAA Course duration: 3 years (BA)
Required subjects: Not applicable Recommended subjects: History Helpful subjects: Classical Civilisation, Ancient History, a classical language or a modern language
Interviewed: 72% Successful: 23% Intake: 24 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 615000 Email: [email protected]
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 288391 Email: [email protected]
The Ancient and Modern History course enables students to study Afroeurasian history from the Bronze Age Mediterranean, through the Greco-Roman period, late antiquity, the Middle Ages and the early modern period, right up to British, European and World history in the present day.
Fruitful comparisons between societies abound, and the methods by which we study them are mutually illuminating.
You do not need to have a qualification in Latin or Greek to do this course and can learn either from scratch if you want to while here.
The extraordinary range of choices (more than 90 options) for this course reflects the breadth of interests of those who teach here.
The Oxford Classics and History Faculties are world-famous for teaching and research.
The people who will teach you here will often be leading researchers in their field, with lecturers encouraged to put on new courses which reflect their own interests.
Oxford also possesses exceptional library provision for History in: • the Bodleian Library • the History Faculty Library • the Bodleian Art, Archaeology and Ancient World Library and the Weston Library’s special collections • as well as a dedicated Classics Centre.
'I have really enjoyed my degree in Ancient and Modern History.
It has given me the flexibility to study a wide array of topics over a period spanning from Archaic Greece to the twenty-first century.
A joint-school degree challenges you to consider different approaches and methodologies to history, as well as encourages you to interact with a variety of sources and materials.
Your learning is supported by both History and Classics faculties allowing you access to double the experts, double the resources and double the opportunities which helps maximise your experience at Oxford.
However, I think the real beauty of this is that you are exposed to lots of people and ideas, both furthering your research and helping you establish a brilliant network of professional and personal connections; I have met many of my closest friends because they read some form of ancient or modern history which I could relate to.
I would strongly recommend this degree to anyone, especially those looking to read History.
Why study history if you cannot understand and interpret it from as far back as it goes?
If that resonates with you, then this is the right degree to choose.'
Rachael
'AMH is the best of both worlds.
I had loved studying both History and Classical Civilisation at A-Level and wanted to continue engaging with history old and new.
Choosing AMH gave me much more flexibility regarding ancient languages; I could study them if I wanted to but was under no obligation to.
That way, if I suddenly had an epiphany in my second term or even second year (one which never came, alas) and wanted to study Greek, I had the time to change my mind.
Doing AMH connects you with both the Classics and History Faculties.
Since it’s a small cohort for both colleges and the university as a whole, you’ll do everything in college alongside other historians so there’s no fear of missing out on support or events.
As you might expect, it’s mandatory for you to do an ancient paper for your Prelims and Finals.
If you like the ancient world enough to choose this degree, though, this shouldn’t sound too bad.
You’re given a lot of scope to choose a period of interest from either the Roman and Greek worlds in your first year and the options only increase from there.
If material culture is your thing, for instance, there are a number of options for that.
Truly, this degree’s only requirement of you is that you study a bit of Roman or Greek history.
If that sounds great, you seriously won’t regret choosing it.'
Rufus
I’ve really enjoyed my AMH course so far.
When I was applying and realised there was an option to do a mix of classical and modern history, rather than confine myself to one of them, I instantly latched on to it.
There’s such a wide array of options to pick from that I can hone in on things I’m already interested in, or explore something I have no prior knowledge of, and both routes are equally engaging.
I’m nearly halfway through my course and beyond the Disciplines papers, I haven’t had to touch any history past 1500, and haven’t had to do any British papers.
Instead, I can jump around specific time periods and locations, and do papers covering centuries and multiple continents, which makes things a lot more fun for me.
It also helps with revision because I can zoom in on particular events and even specific individuals (especially in the Ancient side where you can study the attitudes and approaches of ancient historians, a particular favourite of mine) or arrange things by theme, meaning I can bring in multiple case studies from various places and points in time.
For me, the challenge of a university workload and schedule is more than made up for by the sheer fun of learning and applying new and varied content.
Helen
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for History (Ancient and Modern).
During the first year, you will be expected to:
In the second and third years you will have the opportunity to choose from an enormous variety of lectures.
Your regular tutorials will be supplemented by faculty classes where you will discuss work with a larger number of students.
Generally, students are very much in charge of their own timetable throughout their courses.
There would usually be no more than around 12 students.
Visit our Academic Year page to find out more about how our teaching year is structured.
First University examinations: four timed written exams
Final University examinations: six timed written exams and one thesis; or five timed written exams, one extended essay and one thesis; optional additional language paper.
Visit the History website and Classics website for the latest information on all course details and options.
If you’re interested in studying History (Ancient and Modern) but your personal or educational circumstances have meant you are unlikely to achieve the grades typically required for Oxford courses, then applying for a Foundation Year might be right for you.
Visit our Foundation Year course pages for more details of academic requirements and eligibility.
Tutors are looking for intellectual curiosity, as well as a flexible approach to engaging with unfamiliar concepts or arguments and an enthusiasm for ancient history or classics, even if you have not studied them before.
Visit the History website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
Oxford historians move on to careers in fields as varied as:
Recent Ancient and Modern History graduates include a civil servant, a librarian and a charity campaign manager.
Mary-Kate says:
‘Through my joint course I developed skills in working flexibly and under pressure, enhanced my analytical skills and learnt to be independently minded.
These have all proven to be invaluable assets in my career as a Fast Streamer for the Home Office.
Being a Fast Streamer means that you follow an accelerated training and development graduate programme.’
Heather now works as a Lecturer in British History at the Humboldt University in Berlin.
‘Learning to work independently and under time pressure as an undergraduate was the perfect preparation for an academic career.
It gave me the skills I needed to teach successfully at a university level and the self-confidence necessary to publish and present my research before my peers.’
Why not have a look at a History magazine such as History Today or BBC History , which also has weekly podcasts .
You may also like to explore the British Museum website or BBC Radio 4 archives , both of which have excellent links to historical materials, for example the programme ‘In Our Time' covers material from Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/history-and-economics:
UCAS code: LV11 Entrance requirements: AAA Course duration: 3 years (BA)
Required subjects: Not applicable Recommended subjects: History, Maths Helpful subjects: Not applicable
Admissions tests: TSA (Section 1) Written Work: One piece (History)
Interviewed: 41% Successful: 11% Intake: 15 Successful for a different course: 3% Applicant intake for a different course: 4 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 271098 Email: [email protected]
The History and Economics course integrates these two subjects to form a coherent and intellectually stimulating programme.
The combination allows insights that neither subject can realise alone.
However, it is possible to specialise primarily in either history or economics while still preserving the benefits of an integrated approach.
The combination of economics, economic history and history will equip you to view real world issues from a variety of perspectives.
You will learn both the historian’s careful approaches to evidence and argumentation and the economist’s analytical and quantitative methods.
These approaches provide an excellent preparation for a range of professional, financial and academic careers.
The course is designed to equip you with the basic tools of both history and economics, while introducing you to some of the areas which you can study later in more depth.
You will be given a wide choice of subjects.
Everyone studies Introductory economics, which is designed to give a solid understanding of the foundations of both Microeconomics, Macroeconomics and Statistical Methods.
The economics core papers are identical to those for Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE) and Economics and Management and students for these courses are generally taught together.
Oxford possesses exceptional library provision for both subjects in the Bodleian Library , the History Faculty and Social Sciences libraries , other faculty libraries and the college libraries.
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for History and Economics.
In the second and third years you will have the opportunity to write a thesis on Economic history, which will enable you to do a piece of independent research.
Generally students are very much in charge of their own timetable throughout their courses.
There would usually be no more than around 12 students though classes for some of the more popular papers may be up to 20 students.
First University examinations: four timed, written exams.
Final University examinations: seven timed written exams and one compulsory undergraduate thesis.
Visit the History website and Economics website for the latest information on all course details and options.
21, 22, 23, 24 & 27 October 2025
To be confirmed
All candidates must take the Thinking Skills Assessment (TSA) Section 1 as part of their application.
There is no admissions test for History in 2025.
Please check the written work requirements for History .
Please note that a submitted essay in Economics is not required.
Visit our further guidance on the submission of written work for more information, and to download a cover sheet.
Tutors are looking for intellectual curiosity, as well as a flexible approach to engaging with unfamiliar concepts or arguments and an enthusiasm for history and economics.
Candidates may also be asked to read and talk about a short passage as part of the interview or work through a short problem.
We do not require any previous formal qualification in economics, but we do expect you to demonstrate a real interest in the subject.
Some of the most popular careers for History and Economics graduates include working in industry, management consulting, the law, teaching and many branches of public service, including the Civil and Diplomatic Services, and the Bank of England.
Recent History and Economics graduates include a management consultant, a charity officer and an economist.
Michael is currently the Managing Director for Thomson Reuters’ Treasury business across Asia Pacific.
‘Running a broad region as diverse as Asia Pacific requires me to think laterally across cultures coupled with a concise and engaging focus – traits that one hones quickly from the tutorial approach at Oxford.’
Applicants for this course may instead be offered a place for History; if you would not wish to be considered for the BA in History then please inform your college of preference.
For the study of economics, an indispensable introduction to economic analysis, is The Economist or the economics pages of newspapers.
Paul Krugman’s writings are also highly recommended, while Begg, Fischer and Dornbusch’s Economics is a useful introductory textbook.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/history-and-english:
UCAS code: VQ13 Entrance requirements: AAA Course duration: 3 years (BA)
Required subjects: English Literature or English Language and Literature Recommended subjects: History Helpful subjects: Not applicable
Admissions test: None in 2025 Written Work: Two pieces
Interviewed: 52% Successful: 14% Intake: 15 Successful for a different course: 7% Applicant intake for a different course: 9 *3-year average 2022-24
A joint degree in History and English requires students to think critically about how we define ‘history’ and ‘literature’, and about how the two disciplines interrelate and, to a large extent, overlap.
Close attention is given to changing methodologies, to the nature of evidence and to styles of argument.
It is assumed that historical documents are just as much ‘texts’ as poems, plays or novels, and are therefore as subject to interpretation as works of narrative, rhetoric and, fundamentally, language.
In turn, it is assumed that poems, plays and novels represent historically-grounded ways of interpreting a culture.
Interdisciplinary study has become a thriving area in its own right as scholars have moved away from what would once have been thought of as ‘purely’ historical or literary criticism to a more comparative way of thinking about the written records of the past (including, of course, the very recent past).
">Video of History and English at Oxford University
The History and English Faculties are among the largest in Britain, with long and distinguished traditions of teaching and research.
Students are offered a great deal of choice in the course over their three years, and whether their interests are in the medieval period, the Renaissance, or the later periods, intellectually fruitful combinations are always possible.
The course structure at Oxford is intended to enable students to relate literary and historical ideas as effectively as possible in the investigation of their chosen historical periods, topics or authors.
The structure recognises that some students will wish to opt for variety rather than close congruity between their historical and literary papers.
An interdisciplinary approach is embedded in each year of the course, with:
All interdisciplinary elements of this course are co-taught or co-supervised by a historian and a literary scholar.
Oxford possesses exceptional library provision for both subjects in the Bodleian Library , the History Faculty and English Faculty libraries, other faculty libraries and the college libraries.
'I love reading all sorts of texts from novels to biographies and wanted a subject that would allow me the greatest breadth to continue to do this.
I also firmly believe that no study of literature is complete without understanding the context behind each author and their work – something I have ample opportunity to explore in my degree.
I was also attracted to the variety of modules on offer across the two disciplines and in my first year have studied options as diverse as Modernist literature and Early Modern Witchcraft...There is consistent opportunity for you to explore the crossover between the two subjects, be it in your interdisciplinary module, or in your tutorial essays.
You can explore big questions such as: how literary are historical documents?
Is the past a narrative we can read like a literary text?
Or it's equally possible to keep your two subjects more separate if you prefer.'
'My degree allows me, above all, to keep studying both the subjects I love, but also to tie them together in interesting ways: by looking at the development of literature during the periods of history I study, as well as by taking bridge papers which are specifically designed to bring the two subjects together.
I’m really glad I took the challenge of applying for a joint honours course, as having the opportunity to be taught by experts in both fields is so rewarding.
I’d tell people who love two different subjects that not only do you NOT have to choose between them, but also studying them jointly allows you to get even more from your degree.'
Josie
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for History and English.
You will have up to two tutorials a week and will often, but not always, be working on two papers simultaneously.
Most students attend three to four lectures a week.
In the first and second years, you will also attend interdisciplinary classes with both English and History tutors present, in preparation for the bridge paper.
For the final-year dissertation you will be allocated an adviser from each discipline.
Three timed written exams form the first University examination, together with a submitted portfolio of two exam essays of 2,000 words for Introduction to English language and literature.
Seven courses are taken:
Final University examinations: between three and five timed written exams will be examined at the end of the third year; plus a combination of one or two extended essays; one bridge essay; one interdisciplinary dissertation.
Visit the History website and the English website for the latest information on all course details and options.
If your personal or educational circumstances have meant you are unlikely to achieve the grades listed above for undergraduate study, but you still have a strong interest in the subject, then applying for History and English with a Foundation Year might be right for you.
Candidates will be required to submit one piece of written work for History and one piece for English.
Please refer to the English Language and Literature and History course pages for guidance on written work requirements.
Tutors are looking for intellectual curiosity, as well as a flexible approach to engaging with unfamiliar concepts or arguments and an enthusiasm for writing and talking about history, literature and language.
Shortlisted candidates will usually be given at least two interviews, one with the History tutor(s) in the college, and one with the English tutor(s).
In the English interview, the candidate may be asked to discuss a piece of prose or verse, provided before or at the interview.
Successful candidates will read widely, and will be interested in pursuing a comparative approach to historical and literary texts.
Studying this degree provides you with the opportunity to acquire a range of skills valued by recruiters and employers, including the ability to work independently, to evaluate the significance of evidence and to present arguments clearly and persuasively.
Graduates from this course have worked in the media, legal professions, public administration, teaching and finance.
Applicants for this course may instead be offered a place for History or for English; if you would not wish to be considered for the BA in History then please inform your college of preference.
For English, visit the University's collection of literary resources on our Great Writers Inspire site .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/history-and-modern-languages:
UCAS code: See course combinations Entrance requirements: AAA Course duration: 4 years with year abroad (BA)
Required subjects: A modern language (depending on course choice) Recommended subjects: History Helpful subjects: Not applicable
Admissions tests: MLAT (depending on the course) Written Work: One piece
Interviewed: 83% Successful: 25% Intake: 19 Successful for a different course: 9% Applicant intake for a different course: 9 *3-year average 2022-24
A degree course in History and Modern Languages with us is an exciting way to explore language, culture and history from across the globe, and to develop skills that will open a wide range of career opportunities.
The course is an excellent way to combine the study of a single European language with a broader humanities education.
In studying History and Modern Languages, you can call on the forensic literary skills of a linguist in interrogating historical documents.
You can also draw on your understanding of political, social and economic developments to enrich your engagement with literature, film and other culture.
Our course is celebrated for its wide scope and the enormous amount of choice offered.
In History you can study options on any part of British and European history from the declining years of the Roman Empire to the present day.
You can also take options on North American, Latin American, Asian and African history.
In modern languages, as well as developing a high level of fluency and confidence in your language, you can study its thought and literature from medieval times right up to the present day, as well as twentieth- and twenty-first-century cinema.
Your studies can take you wherever your language is spoken, including post-colonial nations from Algeria to Argentina, perhaps inspiring you to explore some of them in person during the course’s year abroad.
Throughout the course you are encouraged to follow your interests, drawing connections between the history and modern languages sides of the course wherever and whenever is most fascinating to you.
That includes the final-year dissertation project, which brings history and modern languages together in a combined study of a topic of your choice.
Oxford has a rich environment for the study of history and modern languages with teaching often led by world-leading experts, vast library resources, language training and overseas contacts.
Undergraduate students have access to the Taylor Institution Library , the biggest research library in Britain devoted to modern languages.
Our undergraduate students also have access to the History Faculty Library housed in the Radcliffe Camera.
The University’s well-equipped Language Centre has resources specifically tailored to the needs of History and Modern Languages students.
Our students use the skills they have developed with us to build successful careers in such diverse fields as business, journalism, international relations and the creative industries.
History and Modern Languages students spend a compulsory year abroad, usually in the third year.
Opportunities for the year abroad include (but aren’t restricted to):
'I loved both History and German at A-level, and couldn’t imagine not studying either, so when I discovered that Oxford offered a course that would enable me to study both in greater detail, I decided to apply.
‘Greater detail’ turned out to be an understatement!
One of the great things about History and Modern Languages is that I can choose how much the subjects work together.
You can study the literature and the history of a period at the same time, or (like me) you can keep the two separate – my papers this year cover everything from 19th-century Britain to medieval German literature, modern linguistics and the Cold War.'
CAITLIN
Your time will be divided between the Faculties of History and Medieval and Modern Languages, and your college.
A week’s work will include tutorials in history and in the literature and culture of the language you study and around 3 or 4 lectures/classes for each subject and language classes involving different skills, e.g.
translation, oral and grammar.
The rest of your time will be allocated to independent study preparing essays for your weekly tutorials.
First University examinations: six written papers
Final University examinations: between six and nine written papers; between one and four submitted essays, including the compulsory bridge essay; oral examination in the modern language
Visit the History website and the Modern Languages website for the latest information on all course details and options.
For History with Czech*, French, German*, Italian*, Modern Greek*, Portuguese*, Russian or Spanish, candidates would usually be required to have that language to A-level, Advanced Higher, Higher Level in the IB or another academic equivalent.
*Courses with a Beginners’ language (eg History and Beginners' German) allow students to start studying one of these languages from scratch.
No prior knowledge of the language is expected.
Most candidates must take the Modern Languages Admissions Test (MLAT) as part of their application.
Candidates for History and Modern Languages with a Beginners’ Language do not need to sit the MLAT.
Tutors are looking for intellectual curiosity, your capacity for independent thought and ability to relate and conceptualise ideas, as well as a flexible approach to engaging with unfamiliar concepts or arguments and your oral competence in the language.
If you are shortlisted, you may be asked to discuss your submitted written work and personal statement during your interview(s).
Candidates may also be asked to read and talk about a short text in English and/or the modern language as part of the interview.
View the selection criteria for History and the selection criteria for Modern Languages for more details.
Employers value language skills combined with the many transferable skills of a History and Modern Languages degree including:
These skills combine to make our graduates among the most employable, and they are in high demand in many different areas of employment.
Many of our graduates take advantage of their language skills to forge an international career, working abroad or interacting with clients in languages other than English.
Recent graduates from this course are employed in international institutions such as the UN, by charities and NGOs as well as by national governments.
They work in the media, publishing, the law, banking, consultancy, teaching, research, commercial industry and many other sectors.
Matthew, now an investment manager, says:
‘I enjoyed the sheer variety and choice of a History and Modern Languages degree.
I benefit hugely in my professional life from the skills I learned from historical argument and literary criticism, not to mention the ability to speak French.
Every time I tell my clients how politics and financial markets might affect their investments, I draw on the analytical and presentational skills I acquired at Oxford.’
History and Beginners' Czech
VR1R
History and Czech
VR17
History and French
VR11
History and Beginners' German
RV21
History and German
VR12
History and Beginners' Modern Greek
VR1X
History and Modern Greek
VQ17
History and Beginners' Italian
RV31
History and Italian
VR13
History and Beginners' Portuguese
VR1N
History and Portuguese
VR15
History and Russian
VRC7
History and Spanish
VR14

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/history-and-politics:
UCAS code: LV21 Entrance requirements: AAA Course duration: 3 years (BA)
Required subjects: Not applicable Recommended subjects: History Helpful subjects: Sociology, Politics, Government and Politics
Admissions tests: None in 2025 Written Work: One piece (History)
Interviewed: 38% Successful: 12% Intake: 44 Successful for a different course: 3% Applicant intake for a different course: 13 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 278706 Email: [email protected]
The History and Politics course brings together complementary but distinct disciplines to form a coherent and stimulating programme.
The degree not only enables students to set contemporary political problems in their historical perspective, but also equips them to approach the study of the past with the conceptual rigour derived from political science.
Students are required to study quantitative methods in preparation for year 2 Social Science papers.
">Video of History and Politics at Oxford University
A special feature of the Oxford course is the chance to choose from a broad range of subjects across the two disciplines, making it possible, for example, to combine medieval history options with analysis of contemporary political systems.
The intellectual rigour of this course benefits from the expertise of Oxford’s political theorists and historians in the history of political thought.
It is also strengthened by the thematic approach taken to European and World history teaching in the first year, combined with an emphasis on interdisciplinarity in a number of both Politics and History papers.
'I specialised more in Politics than in History.
The ‘Introduction to the practice of Politics' paper at Prelims provided me with an excellent foundation for studying specific countries at Finals level.
I was able to use the knowledge I obtained here, and apply it within several political contexts - from Japan to South Africa!
I especially loved writing my thesis, where I was able to analyse the political challenges of the past with reference to the leading political models of the present.'
Stefan
'I have constructed my course around papers that really interest me, tackling issues ranging from the American War of Independence to the modern-day political culture of the Czech Republic.
Both the History and Politics faculties attract leading researchers at the cutting-edge of their fields who work intensively with students, and I have found the intensive engagement with academics one of the most challenging and exciting aspects of life at Oxford.'
Nathan
'The most unexpected thing about my course was the choice!
Joint honours courses enable you to have an enormous amount of freedom over what you study - you can choose to specialise or to cover a huge variety of areas.
I feel like the independence has helped me to develop in ways I would not have predicted.
Studying at Oxford has given me confidence in myself and my ability to think.'
Lydia
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for History and Politics.
You will also learn quantitative methods.
Generally, students are very much in charge of their own timetable throughout their course.
Class sizes may vary depending on the options you choose, but there would usually be no more than around 20 students.
Four examination papers and a short piece of assessed coursework:
Final University examinations: either six written papers; one thesis in History or Politics or five written papers; one extended essay; one thesis in History or Politics.
Tutors are looking for intellectual curiosity, as well as a flexible approach to engaging with unfamiliar concepts or arguments and an enthusiasm for history and politics.
Find out more about the selection criteria for this course.
While some History and Politics graduates go on to further study and research to become professional historians and social scientists, others move into different areas.
Recent graduates have started their careers in:
Graduates include a PhD researcher in political science, a senior account executive in public relations and a civil servant.
To learn more about politics, you might be interested in reading Jonathan Wolff’s An Introduction to Political Philosophy.
Or, for interesting and up-to-date insights into recent political developments in a number of countries, the series of texts produced by Macmillan at regular intervals called Developments in British (French, German, East European etc.) Politics .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/history-art:
UCAS code: V350 Entrance requirements: AAA Course duration: 3 years (BA)
Required subjects: A subject involving essay writing Recommended subjects: Not applicable Helpful subjects: History of Art, Fine Art, History, English, a language
Admissions tests: None Written Work: One piece, one response
Interviewed: 45% Successful: 13% Intake: 14 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 286830 Email: [email protected]
Anything designed by human beings exhibits visual and material qualities that are specific to the place and period in which it originates.
History of Art aims to arrive at an historical understanding of the origins, meanings and purposes of art and artefacts from a wide range of world cultures.
It asks about the circumstances of objects' making, their makers, the media used, their functions, their critical reception and their subsequent histories.
A degree in History of Art educates students in the historical interpretation of art in its cultural contexts.
It also provides skills in the critical analysis of objects through the cultivation of visual literacy, as well as encourages students to analyse critically related texts and documents.
The acquired skills have broad applicability in a wide range of professional settings, as well as providing personal enlightenment and enjoyment.
">Video of History of Art at Oxford University
The University's collections, including the famous Ashmolean and Pitt Rivers museums, provide objects for first-hand study under the supervision of those entrusted with their care.
The historic architecture of the University, the city of Oxford and its environs supplies a rich source of study in its own right.
The Oxford degree is designed to provide innovative insights into a wide range of world art, drawing its expertise from various University faculties and the staff of University collections, as well as from the department itself.
There is a strong emphasis on how primary visual and written sources from various periods and places can be analysed in relation to works of art and architecture.
Students are also encouraged to explore what it means to call something a work of 'Art' and to consider images and objects that may not necessarily conform to traditional definitions of 'Art'.
'My only knowledge of the subject before studying it at Oxford had come from my experience as a Fine Art student at A-level, my own reading, and from visiting exhibitions and galleries.
I was thrilled to be able to continue my curiosities and further my knowledge in aspects of the course like the extended essay.
To be able to do a serious, in-depth, and ultimately fascinating study of Walter Sickert and a collection of his drawings at the Ashmolean with some of the world’s experts on the subject was something I had wanted to do ever since I found out about the artist.
Not only was I able to embark upon the project academically, but I also went on an ‘art-pilgrimage’ across northern France in search of the casino in which the works were made.'
Arthur
'I chose History of Art at Oxford because the course is unlike those taught at other institutions in that it provides not only a comprehensive understanding of the discipline, but is very self-reflective and questions the assumptions we hold when approaching "artworks" and what we include in that term.
I feel that not only my knowledge has expanded, but I have been equipped with the skills and frameworks to interpret and understand artwork, not only as pieces within the canon, but rather as all visual culture that operates on so many dimensions, and in and out of many different contexts.'
Shaun
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for History of Art.
Each week you will have around two lectures, and a weekly tutorial.
Teaching usually takes place in the department or in a college, as well as in one of the Oxford museums and galleries where tutors often lecture in front of actual works of art.
Visits to exhibitions and historical buildings will also be part of the course.
Outside the classroom most of your time will be spent preparing essays for your tutorials and working in libraries, archives or museums on longer research papers.
Tutorials usually comprise between one and three students and a tutor.
Class sizes may vary depending on the options you choose, but there would usually be no more than around 16 students, and often significantly fewer.
Most tutorials, classes, and lectures are delivered by tutors or curators.
Some teaching may also be delivered by postgraduate students who are studying at doctoral level and have normally received formal training in teaching undergraduates.
Four elements are taken:
Students also undertake a French, German or Italian for Art Historians course through the University’s Language Centre.
No previous experience or qualifications are required for the language courses and they are not formally assessed.
First University examinations: three written papers and one extended essay
Final University examinations: four or five written papers, one or two extended essay(s) and one thesis
Visit the History of Art website for the latest information on all course details and a full list of current options.
Candidates are required to have taken an essay-based subject to A-level, Advanced Higher, Higher Level in the IB or any other equivalent.
Read the advice on the History of Art website for further information about what are considered to be essay-based subjects.
*Applicants should have first-hand access to their chosen object so that they may examine it closely in person.
When submitting their response essay, they should include a photographic reproduction of their chosen object if possible.
In writing their response, applicants may focus on whichever aspects of the object they consider to be most significant.
These might include the medium, the design or style, the technique, the subject matter, and/or the location.
No special preparation or research is required and footnotes / references are not expected unless a direct quotation is included.
The 750-word response should demonstrate curiosity, sensitivity and clarity in response to the chosen object and visual culture more generally.
It should be a new piece of writing, not previously submitted for another programme or for assessment or another school assignment.
Read our further guidance on the submission of written work for more information, and to download a cover sheet.
Candidates should show evidence of lively engagement with visual culture, both contemporary and historical.
Prior knowledge of art history is absolutely not a requirement and many successful applicants have never studied the subject before university.
What is looked for in applicants is a keen and critical observation of art and of the visual and material environment in general.
At interview, candidates are invited to demonstrate a willingness to engage in focused discussion and debate about visual issues, and in addition to responding to one or more photographs of unfamiliar images, which applicants will not be expected to recognise.
Visit the History of Art website for more information on the selection criteria for this course.
The cultural industries are one of the biggest employers in the world.
In addition to museums, galleries and auction houses, there are many governmental and nongovernmental agencies that work to conserve, research and promote cultural heritage and to further the production of art both in the UK and around the world.
Furthermore, History of Art graduates will be especially competitive for posts in any area that requires combinations of visual and verbal skills.
These include publishing, advertising, marketing, film, television and web-based media.
History of Art also prepares graduates to enter the wide range of professions available to all humanities graduates, including the civil service, law and the financial sector.
Why not have a look at the History of Art podcasts page , where you can listen to a number of core lectures and public seminars.
You might also like to view the Faculty's reading list for prospective students or visit their research blog .
In addition, you may find it interesting to explore the following resources:

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/human-sciences:
UCAS code: BCL0 Entrance requirements: AAA Course duration: 3 years (BA)
Required subjects: Not applicable Recommended subjects: Not applicable Helpful subjects: Biology, Maths
Interviewed: 52% Successful: 15% Intake: 29 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 274702 Email: [email protected]
Human Sciences is an interdisciplinary degree course which enables students to study humans from multiple interconnecting perspectives across the biological and social sciences.
The degree allows students to make connections between biological, social and cultural phenomena.
Such connections are essential for addressing the major issues we face in a rapidly changing world.
The programme offers an exciting and challenging alternative to more traditional undergraduate courses.
">Video of Human Sciences at Oxford University
The BA in Human Sciences was founded in 1969 by specialists across a range of departments at the University.
They recognised the need for an interdisciplinary understanding of fundamental issues and problems confronting human societies.
This need is as critical now as it was then, as is reflected in the global intensification of interdisciplinary research across traditional subject boundaries in the decades since the degree began.
Central topics include:
Within a framework of human diversity and sustainability, Human Scientists study the connections between human biology, evolution, genetics, development, psychology, behaviour, ecology, demography, society and culture.
This helps them to develop professional competences suited to addressing multidimensional human problems.
The course is taught by specialists from across the University.
Lectures introduce the material and provide the core concepts and theories for each paper.
Tutorials allow students to consider particular topics in greater depth and draw connections across different perspectives and parts of the degree.
They also allow students from different academic backgrounds to gain the necessary grounding across a range of competencies.
Option courses and dissertation preparation in the final year enable students to deepen their interdisciplinary training and expertise in particular topics of interest.
'In my first term alone I have studied human geography, anthropology, maths, physiology, genetics and evolution!
That’s what I love about Human Sciences – it covers so many different areas and subjects.
It’s interesting to develop an understanding of humans as both social and biological creatures by seeing how everything fits together.'
Maija-Eliina
'Human Sciences is the perfect course for ever-curious, ‘all-rounders’ who refuse to be pigeonholed into arts vs sciences.
Being exposed to such a wide range of subjects, viewpoints, and approaches fosters a diverse skill set invaluable for any future career.'
Jessamy
'Frequently friends on other courses, watching with envy as I studied such diverse and interesting subjects, said to me: "if I had known about Human Sciences earlier, I would have applied for that instead.'
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Human Sciences.
During Years 1 and 2 your work will be divided between lectures (about ten a week) and tutorials (one or two a week with more in the first year).
In addition, some practical experience in genetics, physiology, demography or statistics will be offered in certain terms.
Computers are used in the teaching of quantitative methods.
In the third year the tutorial and class requirement is reduced to allow more time for option papers and research for your dissertation.
There would usually be no more than around 20 students although the more popular classes may include up to 30 students.
Five compulsory courses are taken:
The Human Ecology course is assessed by an extended essay written in the final term of the second year and a presentation given in the first term of Year 3.
Final University examinations: currently six written papers and a dissertation; extended essay and presentation (see under Year 2)
More information about current options is available on the Human Sciences website .
The attributes tutors are looking for in applicants include:
At interview, tutors will not expect you to have any specific prior knowledge of the subject.
You will be asked questions designed to help you demonstrate the above attributes.
Visit the Human Sciences website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
Recent graduates have found opportunities in fields including:
Alison currently works as the Principal Scientist in HIV epidemiology within Public Health England.
‘My undergraduate degree in Human Sciences was excellent preparation for my career.
The field of HIV is multifaceted which means we not only measure the prevalence and incidence of HIV but also seek to understand the complexities of sexual behaviour and the political and social context of HIV.
Human Sciences gave me a solid grounding in statistical methods, biological and social sciences.
Specifically, the cross-disciplinary ethos of the course taught me the importance of collaboration with academics and Human Sciences advocates with a wide range of expertise and the need to interpret data within a social, human context.’
Graduate Vanessa produced the series Frozen Planet .
She has worked as a producer/director on a variety of wildlife series including Wildlife on One , The Natural World, Life of Mammals and Planet Earth .
She also co-wrote the book accompanying Frozen Planet and has contributed to a number of academic books including The Biology of Religion , as well as magazines on various wildlife and conservation subjects.
Several scientific papers have also been published on the basis of exceptional behavioural footage taken on films she has produced.
Why not have a look at introductory reading list for prospective students on the Human Sciences website.
You can also follow the Institute on Twitter @Oxford_HumSci to find out what Oxford’s Human Scientists are up to.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/law-jurisprudence:
UCAS code: See course options Entrance requirements: AAA Course duration: 3 years or 4 years with year abroad (BA equivalent to LLB)
Required subjects: For Law with Law Studies in Europe (also known as Course II), a relevant modern language is required.
However, please note that Italian is treated differently (as set out on this page) and that a relevant modern language is not required for Law with European Law.
There is no separate modern language qualification required for the standard three-year BA in Jurisprudence (also known as Course I).
Please note that this is separate from the University's English Language requirements for international students.
Recommended subjects: Not applicable Helpful subjects:  A subject involving essay writing
Admissions tests: LNAT Written Work: None
Interviewed: 31% Successful: 10% Intake: 188
Interviewed: 26% Successful: 9% Intake: 29
*3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 271497 Email: [email protected]
Studying law will help you pursue a career as a solicitor or barrister.
It will also help you develop a diverse set of skills which you will be able to apply in many different situations.
You will learn to assimilate and analyse complex information, construct arguments, write with precision and clarity and think on your feet.
The Oxford Law degree aims to develop all these skills, but its particular strength is in teaching you to think for yourself.
">Video of Law at Oxford University
Students are expected to read a good deal, mostly from primary sources (ie cases and statutes), and to develop views not simply about what the law is, but also about why it is so, whether it should be so, and how it might be different.
There are two Law courses at Oxford:
Students on Course II gain additional skills through exposure to different legal systems and the different approaches to teaching practised by our European partner institutions.
In all countries, aside from the Netherlands, you will be expected to study in the local language.
Students who have graduated in other subjects may undertake the accelerated ‘Senior Status’ version of Course I.
Please refer to the Law Faculty website for further information about the courses.
If you are interested in studying Law but your personal or educational circumstances have meant you are unlikely to achieve the grades typically required for Oxford courses, then choosing to apply for Law with a Foundation Year might be appropriate.
'Studying Law at Oxford is a unique experience.
I feel I have learnt as much about politics, philosophy and sociology as I have about the law!
It equips me with the fullest understanding of the law possible.
The reasons behind studying something so abstract as Jurisprudence or Roman Law seemed incomprehensible at first, but it all became clear once I started studying them.
For example, the ability to see how contract interacts with tort law will help now in exams, as well as when the time comes to leave university and start a career.'
'There are three main reasons [why I chose Law]: first, I want to protect myself, my family and under-represented groups: women, children, animals, and so on.
I have a feeling that law is a powerful shield and weapon.
Second, law is a subject with a broad application.
I don't have in mind a specific occupation, but I know the type of work I'm interested in (in general terms, represent and care for the under-represented and to catalyse change).
Law would allow me to figure out the best match between my legal knowledge and interest.
Third, I know that this degree will expose me to many opportunities to build up the set of skills useful for the work I'm interested in.'
Leanne
'One thing I can never get over is the fact that world-leading academics are teaching you and just the standard of excellence we get here.
That main core textbook?
Your lecturer probably wrote or edited it.
That really famous scientist/academic/judge/barrister/author/poet/etc.
very likely sat in the same room you do lectures in.
My course is amazing because of my fellow lawyers … not only are we super close outside of the library/tutorials, but the conversations and discussions we can have are indispensable.
Building on one another's ideas, thoughts and views from the reading, assessing one another's essays/problem questions.'
Jane
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Law.
Law with European Law
Law with French Law
Law with German Law
Law with Italian Law
Law with Spanish Law
You will usually be studying between one and two subjects at any given time (and up to three subjects in your third year).
There are three ways in which teaching can be delivered: tutorials, lectures and/or seminars.
The tutorial system is our core form of teaching.
In any given week you are likely to have one or two hour-long tutorials (in a group of two to four students) and you will normally be asked to submit written work for each tutorial.
Lectures are non-compulsory, but attendance at them is strongly encouraged.
On average, most students will go to two to three hours of lectures (or discussion-based seminars for third year options) each week.
Most of your working time will be devoted to reading, thinking, and writing your essays in preparation for the tutorials.
The workload is approximately 45 hours per week.
Seminars for second-year Jurisprudence mini-options and third-year optional courses generally involve groups of no more than 30 students but may on occasion exceed that number if the seminar covers more than one option.
Most tutorials, lectures and seminars are delivered by staff who are researchers in that subject.
Some teaching may also be delivered by postgraduate students who are usually studying at the doctoral level.
The information below reflects the current course structure and may be subject to change.
For those on Course II, there are also French/German/Italian/Spanish law and language classes during the first six terms, or, for those going to the Netherlands, introductory Dutch language courses in the second year
First University examinations: three written papers, one each in Criminal law, Constitutional law and a Roman Introduction to Private Law.
Students are examined in the first year, currently at the end of the second term.
Course II: Year 3 is spent abroad
A full list of current options is available on the Law website .
Not every option will be run each year.
To study in France, Germany or Spain candidates would be expected to have the relevant language to A-level, Advanced Higher, Higher Level in the IB or any other equivalent.
To study in Italy, candidates may be admitted without A-level Italian, though they would be expected to demonstrate sufficient language aptitude to be able to achieve the standard required to study successfully in Italy during the year abroad.
Intensive language training will be offered during the first two years of the course where applicable.
If your personal or educational circumstances have meant you are unlikely to achieve the grades listed above for undergraduate study, but you still have a strong interest in the subject, then applying for Law with a Foundation Year might be right for you.
All candidates must take the Law National Admissions Test (LNAT) as part of their application.
A number of other universities also require candidates to sit this test, registration for the test is required and it is the responsibility of the candidate to ensure that they are registered for these tests.
We strongly recommend making the arrangements in plenty of time before the deadline.
Everything you need to know, including guidance on how to prepare, can be found on the LNAT page .
Candidates for Law with Law Studies in Europe who are applying for the French, German, Italian or Spanish law options will usually be given an oral test in the relevant European language at the time of interview.
Academic achievement, reasoning ability, good communication skills both on paper and verbally, a capacity for hard work, and an interest in Law.
Please visit the Law Faculty 's website for more on admissions, including a video of a mock interview.
Find out more about the selection criteria for this course .
While there is no assumption that our Law graduates pursue a legal career, the majority of Oxford Law graduates enter the legal profession.
Although Oxford Law graduates gain a BA in Jurisprudence rather than an LLB, both Course I and Course II are recognised by the Bar Standards Board as degrees that cover the foundations of legal knowledge and therefore meet the requirements for the academic component of professional training for qualifying to practice as a barrister.
The routes to qualifying as a solicitor have changed, and students  will now need to undertake the Solicitors’ Qualifying Examination (SQE).
For more information about this, refer to the SRA website .
Many Oxford Law graduates go on to successful careers practising law outside England and Wales.
The Oxford Law courses naturally focus on English law, but the fundamental principles of the English common law play a key role in several other jurisdictions.
Graduates of the four-year course also gain important international knowledge during their year abroad.
Please contact the relevant local regulatory body you want to know the status of an English law degree in another jurisdiction.
Victoria undertook a training contract with Linklaters.
‘Studying Law at Oxford was about so much more than just learning and applying the law.
I learnt to consider its history, and the social and political context within which it now operates.
Throughout, I was challenged to critically assess what I was learning and its broader context, and to develop my own opinions.’
Students taking Law with Law Studies in Europe are currently expected to spend the third year of this course abroad studying at a host university.
Fees for later years have not yet been confirmed but as an example, the course fees for a new cohort undergraduate student on a Jurisprudence course going on a year abroad in 2025 would equate to:
The Law Faculty has a series of bilateral agreements in place with partner EU institutions.
Students in Paris may be able to apply for housing benefit .
As you will be studying a full year of courses in your host university we do not recommend that you plan to do any regular paid work while you are away.
For information about living costs on your year abroad, please visit the website below for the relevant country:
The Faculty of Law runs dedicated outreach programmes, events and activities aimed at promoting the study of law and supporting talented students from all backgrounds to apply to the course.
The Faculty of Law hosts two full taster days in March, open to UK students in Year 12.
We also invite UK state school students to take part in ExpLaw , a two-day residential programme.
UK state school students interested in l aw can apply to UNIQ , Oxford’s flagship outreach programme for students in their first year of further education.
Anyone interested in studying Law at Oxford is encouraged to explore details of subject-specific opportunities and resources on the Faculty of Law website .
+44 (0) 1865 271497 [email protected] www.law.ox.ac.uk/access-outreach
Applicants for Law with Law Studies in Europe may instead be offered a place on the three-year Law programme.
Law with European Law (The Netherlands)
Please note that the arrangements for and content of the courses may be subject to change as a consequence of developments regarding the UK's departure from the EU.
Please visit the Turing Scheme page for details of opportunities for this course.
Why not visit the faculty's introductory reading list for Law ?
You may also like to read the BBC's website Law in Action and download some of their podcasts, or visit the Guardian's law pages and Counsel magazine .
Another good place to read about current legal cases is the court reports in broadsheet newspapers.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/materials-science:
UCAS code: FJ22 Entrance requirements: A*AA (with the A* in Maths, Physics or Chemistry).
Required subjects: Maths and Physics Recommended subjects: Chemistry Helpful subjects: Further Maths, Design and Technology (Product Design)
Interviewed: 69% Successful: 24% Intake: 40 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 273682 Email: [email protected]
Materials Science is an interdisciplinary subject, spanning the physics and chemistry of matter, engineering applications and industrial manufacturing processes.
Modern society is heavily dependent on advanced materials, for example:
Materials scientists study the relationships between the structure and properties of a material and how it is made.
They also develop new materials and devise advanced processes for manufacturing them.
Materials Science is vital for developments in nanotechnology, quantum computing, energy storage and nuclear energy, as well as medical technologies such as bone replacement materials and drug delivery.
">Video of Materials Science at Oxford University
This diverse programme spans the subject from its foundations in physics and chemistry to the mechanical, electrical, magnetic and optical properties of materials, and the design, manufacture and applications of metals, alloys, ceramics, polymers, composites, semiconductors, superconductors, nanomaterials and biomaterials.
This work is supported by excellent laboratory and teaching facilities.
The programme also offers an opportunity to develop an introductory understanding of entrepreneurship (learning how to write a business plan, raise capital and start a company).
There are also voluntary options to learn a foreign language with the University's Language Centre .
The Oxford Materials degree includes in its fourth year the special feature of an eight-month full-time research project.
For this fourth year research project you will join a research team either here at Oxford in one of the strongest Departments of Materials in the UK or, occasionally, at an overseas university or in an industrial laboratory (additional costs may be associated with a project outside Oxford).
You will learn how to break down a complex problem, design an experiment or model, manage a project and communicate your results.
These research skills are transferable to many career paths and are valued highly by employers.
Students are encouraged to undertake a voluntary summer project in industry or a research laboratory.
Recent locations for overseas summer projects have included Beijing, Zhejiang, Shanghai and Tokyo.
A voluntary industrial tour to an overseas destination is organised in some Easter holidays.
Recent destinations include Germany, Singapore, France, China and Sweden.
Applying for Materials Science with a Foundation Year might be right for you if you’re interested in studying this course but your personal or educational circumstances mean you are unlikely to achieve the grades typically required for Oxford courses.
'Being a Materials Scientist is rather like being a chemist, physicist, engineer and mathematician all rolled into one: perfect for the all-round scientist!
It is challenging, and requires a lot of effort and perseverance, but we get to carry out fun experiments involving orange jelly, molten metal and bubbles, so all the effort seems worth it.
Practical classes are particularly good for developing a hands-on approach, and then we also have industrial visits where you get to see where all the work is leading you.
I would definitely recommend Oxford as a place to read Materials Science, as there are so many resources and the course is just so varied, with extra options such as languages or ‘Building a Business’.
Everyone really gets to know each other, and personally I have made some amazing friends on the course.'
Jodie
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Materials Science.
During Years 1 and 2, your work will be divided between lectures (about ten a week), tutorials/classes (about two a week) and practicals (two or three afternoons a week).
Typically the work in preparation for each tutorial or class will be expected to take six to eight hours.
Year 3 starts with a two-week team design project, and about eight lectures and two classes/tutorials a week for the first two terms, while most of the third term is set aside for revision.
Year 4 consists of a supervised research project spanning three extended terms.
Lectures throughout Years 1-2 may be attended by the full year groups of around 40 undergraduate students.
Normally Materials Year 3 Options Courses lectures will be attended by a smaller number of undergraduates plus a small number of research students.
Some Year 1 classes, which support the lectures, are attended by the full year group of around 40.
Tutorials supporting the Year 1 and Year 2 Materials lecture courses are usually 2 to 4 students with a tutor.
The Year 1 and 2 Mathematics lectures are supported by small group tutorial classes, typically up to 6 students per group.
The Year 3 Options lectures are supported by small group tutorial classes, typically 8-12 students per group.
The majority of tutorials and lectures are delivered by staff who are Professors or Associate Professors, many of whom are world-leading experts with years of experience in teaching and research.
Some teaching may also be delivered by post-doctoral researchers or postgraduate research students.
First University examinations: four written papers; continual assessment components equivalent to a fifth paper
Examples of current options courses are available via the Materials Science website .
At the start of Year 3 it is possible to transfer to a 3-year BA degree in Materials Science, graduating at the end of Year 3.
Read essential further information about this on the Materials Science website .
The BA is not accredited.
Final University examinations, Part I: six written papers; continual assessment components equivalent to a further two papers
Research project (full-time).
Additional elements include Project management, Ethics and sustainability, Presentation skills and an optional foreign language course.
(Students are required to achieve 50% minimum in the Part I assessment in order to progress to Part II.)
Examples of project titles are available via the Materials Science website .
Final University examinations, Part II (equivalent to 4 papers): project dissertation submitted and assessed; oral examination of project dissertation
Visit the Materials Science website for important additional detail on course content, progression and assessment.
This programme outline is for illustrative purposes and details may change from time to time.
For candidates studying Maths, Physics, Chemistry and FM to A-level, normally our conditional offer will require A*AA in the first three (with the A* in any of these three subjects) and an expectation that you continue to study FM.
An analogous offer will apply if instead of FM you are studying a different A-level in addition to the first three.
If your personal or educational circumstances have meant you are unlikely to achieve the grades listed above for undergraduate study, but you still have a strong interest in the subject, then applying for Materials Science with a Foundation Year might be right for you.
At interview, tutors are aware that students may not have encountered Materials Science at school or college.
Tutors look for an ability to apply logical reasoning to problems in physical science, and an enthusiasm for thinking about new concepts in science and engineering.
Visit the Materials Science website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course .
Many of our graduates apply their technical knowledge in the manufacturing industry, both in management and in research and development positions.
Others enter the financial, consultancy and IT sectors.
A significant proportion of graduates undertake research degrees in universities in the UK and abroad.
Katherine says: ‘After leaving university I started work for Rolls-Royce (on aeroplanes, boats and power stations) as a graduate engineer, moving engineering roles within the company and around the globe every three months.’
The fourth year is entirely devoted to research - a special feature of the Oxford MEng in Materials Science programme - consisting of a full-time individual research project under the supervision of a member staff.
This final year has three extended terms of 12 to 13 weeks and is 37 weeks in total so you will need to budget for higher living costs in the final year, as you will be required to be in Oxford for longer than the standard terms.
View the likely range of living costs for an additional month in Oxford.
During the project you will learn how to:
These research skills are transferable to other career paths and are valued highly by employers.
On occasion significant scientific publications result from these projects.
The Department of Materials runs dedicated outreach programmes, events and activities aimed at promoting materials science and supporting talented students from all backgrounds to apply to the course.
Teachers and school students are invited to join the Department of Materials mailing list s to hear about upcoming opportunities.
The Department of Materials has a very active Access & Outreach team which runs numerous events and activities including Open Days, masterclasses and workshops, school visits, residential courses, and our Making Materials Matter Student Programme & Teachers Conference .
Our main aims are:
UK state school students interested in Materials Science can apply to UNIQ , Oxford’s flagship outreach programme for students in their first year of further education.
Anyone interested in studying Materials Science at Oxford is encouraged to explore details of subject-specific opportunities and resources on the Department of Materials website .
+44 (0) 1865 273777 [email protected] www.materials.ox.ac.uk/admissions/schools
Materials Science in person open days: These usually take place in February and March.
Please visit the Materials Science website for the latest information.
The M.Eng degree in Materials Science for entrants up to and including October 2024 is accredited by the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining (IOM3) on behalf of the UK Engineering Council, towards the achievement of Chartered Engineer status.
Normally this professional accreditation is reviewed on a five-yearly cycle and the next review is scheduled to take place in March 2025.
Please see our Materials Undergraduate Admissions webpage for the latest information on the review and its outcome.
The final year of this course is a full-time eight-month research project.
Why not have a look through the introductory reading for prospective students on the department's website?
You might also like to read the New Scientist magazine which may be available in your school or local library.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/mathematics:
UCAS code: G100 Entrance requirements: A*A*A with the A*s in Maths and Further Maths if available.
Course duration: 3 years (BA); 4 years (MMath)
Required subjects: Maths Recommended subjects: Further Maths Helpful subjects: Not applicable
Combined statistics for Mathematics and Mathematics and Statistics:
Interviewed: 31% Successful: 9% Intake: 182 *3-year average 2022-24
Mathematicians have always been fascinated by numbers.
One of the most famous problems is Fermat’s Last Theorem:
if n≥3, the equation x n +y n =z n has no solutions with x, y, z all nonzero integers.
An older problem is to show that one cannot construct a line of length 3 √2 with ruler and compass, starting with a unit length.
Often the solution to a problem will require you to think outside its original framing.
This is true here, and while you will see the second problem solved in your course, the first is far too deep and was famously solved by Andrew Wiles.
In applied mathematics we use mathematics to explain phenomena that occur in the real world.
You can learn how a leopard gets its spots, explore quantum theory and relativity, or study the mathematics of stock markets.
">Video of Maths at Oxford University
We will encourage you to ask questions and find solutions for yourself.
We will begin by teaching you careful definitions so that you can construct theorems and proofs.
Above all, mathematics is a logical subject, and you will need to think mathematically, arguing clearly and concisely as you solve problems.
For some of you, this way of thinking or solving problems will be your goal.
Others will want to see what else can be discovered.
Either way, it is a subject to be enjoyed.
There are two Mathematics degrees, the three-year BA and the four-year MMath.
Decisions regarding continuation to the fourth year do not have to be made until the third year.
The first year consists of core courses in pure and applied mathematics (including statistics).
Options start in the second year, with the third and fourth years offering a large variety of courses, including options from outside mathematics.
'The Mathematics course is absolutely fantastic and is essentially problem-solving on a daily basis, which I love.
You attend lectures to learn the material and then complete problem sheets on the topics.
Certainly, for me, the most rewarding aspect of mathematics is solving problems, especially when they have been initially unyielding, or seemingly unapproachable; and this is right at the core of the course.
I chose to read mathematics at university because I have a real passion for the subject, and wanted to gain a deeper understanding of some of the beauty it holds.
I’ve found the course has really pushed the boundaries of what I thought I could achieve, which is extremely rewarding.'
'Studying Mathematics at Oxford has been a massive change from A-Level but I have been really enjoying it, I especially love having tutorials as they are a fantastic opportunity to work through problems that specifically you and your tutorial partner are having difficulties with and ask questions that allow you to improve yourself as a mathematician.'
Beth
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Mathematics.
There would usually be around 8-12 students though classes for some of the more popular papers may be larger.
Admission to Mathematics is joint with Mathematics & Statistics, and applicants do not choose between the two degrees until the end of their fourth term at Oxford.
At that point, all students declare whether they wish to study Mathematics or study Mathematics & Statistics.
Further changes later on may be possible subject to the availability of space on the course and the consent of the college.
First University examinations: five compulsory papers; Computational mathematics projects
Final University examinations, Part A: three core papers and six or seven optional papers
A full list of current options is available on the Mathematics website .
Year 3: Final University examinations, Part B: eight papers or equivalent
Year 4: Final University examinations, Part C: eight, nine or ten papers or equivalent, including a dissertation.
The Physics and Mathematics Departments jointly offer an integrated master’s level course in Mathematical and Theoretical Physics .
Mathematics students are able to apply for transfer to a fourth year studying entirely mathematical and theoretical physics, completing their degree with an MMathPhys.
The course offers research-level training in: Particle physics, Condensed matter physics, Astrophysics, Plasma physics and Continuous media.
The majority of those who read Mathematics will have taken both Mathematics and Further Mathematics at A-level (or the equivalent).
Tutors are looking for a candidate’s potential to succeed on the course.
We recommend that candidates challenge themselves with Mathematics beyond their curriculum, question their own understanding, and take advantage of any available extension material.
Ultimately, we are most interested in a candidate’s potential to think imaginatively, deeply and in a structured manner about the patterns of mathematics.
Visit the Maths Department website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
Quantitative skills are highly valued, and this degree prepares students for employment in a wide variety of occupations in the public and private sectors.
Around 30% of our graduates go on to further study, but for those who go into a profession, typical careers include finance, consultancy and IT.
Nathan, an engineer, says:
‘During my degree I developed my ability to solve complex problems – a fundamental skill set to tackle challenges I encounter on a day-to-day basis as an engineer.
The application of mathematics in engineering and manufacturing is ever increasing, meaning there will be more and more opportunities to find interesting roles in which I can apply my skills.’
The Mathematical Institute runs dedicated outreach programmes, events and activities aimed at promoting mathematics and supporting talented students from all backgrounds to apply to the course.
Teachers, school students and parents are invited to join the Mathematical Institute outreach mailing list to hear about upcoming opportunities.
There are a variety of online and in-person outreach events that are delivered by the Mathematical Institute each year.
Some examples of events include:
UK state school students interested in mathematics can apply to UNIQ , Oxford’s flagship outreach programme for students in their first year of further education.
Anyone interested in studying Mathematics at Oxford is encouraged to explore details of subject-specific opportunities and resources on the Mathematical Institute website .
+44 (0) 1865 273525 [email protected] www.maths.ox.ac.uk/outreach
Mathematics Open Days - 26 April and 3 May 2025.
Mathematical Sciences at The University of Oxford was listed as one of the best in the UK in the most recent (2021) Research Excellence Framework (REF).
Why not have a look at the reading lists for prospective Mathematics applicants on the department's website ?
You can also watch recent lectures, and see a real first-year tutorial on the Mathematics YouTube channel to get a feel for what studying here is like and find out  about the department's research at the Oxford Mathematics Alphabet .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/mathematics-and-computer-science:
UCAS code: GG14 Entrance requirements: A*AA (with A*A in Maths and Further Maths (FM) or A* in Maths if FM is not taken).
Course duration: 3 years (BA); 4 years (MMathCompSci)
Interviewed: 26% Successful: 8% Intake: 51 Successful for a different course: 1% Applicant intake for a different course: 4 *3-year average 2022-24
This joint degree offers the opportunity to combine an appreciation of mathematical reasoning with an understanding of computing.
Mathematics is a fundamental intellectual tool in computing, but computing is increasingly used as a key component in mathematical problem-solving.
">Video of Mathematics and Computer Science at Oxford University
The course concentrates on areas where mathematics and computing are most relevant to each other, emphasising the bridges between theory and practice.
It offers opportunities for students to develop a deeper understanding of the mathematical foundations of their subject.
The course helps students to acquire a familiarity with the mathematics of application areas where computers can solve otherwise intractable problems.
It also gives mathematicians access to both a practical understanding of the use of computers and a deeper understanding of the limits on the use of computers in their own subject.
'For me the best bit of the course is the practical element, such as imperative programming.
I like to see new techniques for algorithms and structures because I find it exciting to see how they could be used in the real world.
I find the tutorial system very helpful – I think it is the best thing about Oxford.
The people here are very competent and the facilities are well suited to the course.'
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Mathematics and Computer Science.
The typical weekly timetable for a student in Mathematics and Computer Science is similar to that for Computer Science or Mathematics .
There would usually be around 8-15 students though classes for some of the more popular papers may be larger.
Lectures may be up to 120 students.
There will be a group project in year two and, for those that choose to continue to year four, a large individual project or dissertation.
Throughout your time studying you will learn from leading maths and computer science specialists and researchers.
Mathematics and Computer Science can be studied for three years, leading to the award of a BA degree, or for four years, leading to the award of Master of Mathematics and Computer Science (MMathCompSci).
Students do not need to choose between the three-year and four-year options when applying.
Five exam papers
Eight exam papers (four Computer Science and four Mathematics)
Up to eight exam papers
Written or take-home exams plus a dissertation or project report.
The courses listed above are illustrative and may change.
Candidates are expected to have Mathematics to A-level (A or A* grade), Advanced Higher (A grade), Higher Level in the IB (score 7) or another equivalent.
The most important qualities we are looking for are strong mathematical ability, the ability to think and work independently, the capacity to absorb and use new ideas, and a great deal of enthusiasm.
We use this set of criteria and the result of the Mathematics Admissions Test (MAT) to decide whom to invite for interview.
At the interview we will explore how you tackle unfamiliar problems and new ideas.
We are more interested in how you approach problem-solving than whether you can get straight to a solution.
We do not require any previous formal qualification in computer science, but we do expect you to demonstrate a real interest in the subject.
Visit the Maths Department or Department of Computer Science websites for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
This course gives training in logical thought and expression, and is a good preparation for many careers.
Some Mathematics and Computer Science graduates go on to further study.
Other recent graduates have secured positions as software and hardware professionals, in research and in finance and investment analysis, and include a product controller for an international bank, an actuarial consultant and an accountant.
The Department of Computer Science and the Mathematical Institute run dedicated outreach programmes, events and activities aimed at promoting their subjects and supporting talented students from all backgrounds to apply to the course.
Teachers, school students and parents are invited to join the Department of Computer Science mailing list and the Mathematical Institute outreach mailing list to hear about upcoming opportunities.
UK state school students interested in mathematics and computer science can apply to UNIQ , Oxford’s flagship outreach programme for students in their first year of further education.
Anyone interested in studying Mathematics and C omputer Science at Oxford is encouraged to explore details of subject-specific opportunities and resources on the Department of Computer Science website and the Mathematical Institute website .
Why not have a look at the Mathematics reading list and Computer Science reading list for prospective applicants?
You can also find out more about the Maths Department's research at the Oxford Mathematics Alphabet .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/mathematics-and-philosophy:
UCAS code: GV15 Entrance requirements: A*A*A with the A*s in Maths and Further Maths if available.
Course duration: 3 years (BA); 4 years (MMathPhil)
Interviewed: 34% Successful: 10% Intake: 16 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 276926 Email: [email protected]
This course brings together two of the most fundamental and widely applicable intellectual skills.
Mathematical knowledge, and the ability to use it, is the most important means of tackling quantifiable problems.
Philosophical training enhances the ability to analyse issues, question received assumptions and clearly articulate understanding.
The combination provides a powerful background from which to proceed to graduate study in either mathematics or philosophy or to pursue a diverse range of careers.
Historically, there have been strong links between mathematics and philosophy.
Logic, an important branch of both subjects, provides a natural bridge between the two, as does the Philosophy of mathematics module.
The degree is founded on the belief that the parallel study of these related disciplines can significantly enhance your understanding of each.
">Video of Mathematics and Philosophy at Oxford University
The Philosophy Faculty is the largest in the UK, and one of the largest in the world.
We have more than 70 full-time members and admit around 450 undergraduates annually to read our various degrees involving philosophy.
Many faculty members have a worldwide reputation, and the faculty has one of the highest research ratings of any philosophy department in the UK.
The Philosophy Library is among the best in the country.
The large number of undergraduates and graduates reading philosophy with a variety of other disciplines affords the opportunity to participate in a diverse and lively philosophical community.
In turn the Mathematics Department, housed in the Andrew Wiles Building, is also one of the largest and best in the UK and contains within it many world-class research groups.
This is reflected in the wide choice of mathematics topics available to you, especially in the fourth year.
'I came to Oxford because I wanted to study at one of the best universities in the country.
I enjoy the reading in preparation for essays and also the tutorials, especially the philosophical discussions; it’s really interesting to try and make your point clearer and to discover sides of the argument you’d never thought about.
Organising your time is very important.
If you enjoyed maths and further maths at A-level and you find questions in philosophy interesting then this is definitely the course for you.'
Thomas
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Mathematics and Philosophy.
There are two Mathematics and Philosophy degrees, the three-year BA and the four-year MMathPhil.
The mathematics units in this joint course are all from the single-subject Mathematics course.
Accordingly the standard in mathematics for admission to the joint course is the same as for admission to the single-subject Mathematics course.
The compulsory core mathematics for the joint course consists mainly of the pure (as opposed to applied) mathematics from the compulsory core for the single-subject Mathematics course.
The philosophy units for the Mathematics and Philosophy course are mostly shared with the other courses with philosophy.
In the first year, all parts of the course are compulsory.
In the second and third years some subjects are compulsory.
These consist of core mathematics and philosophy and bridge papers on philosophy of mathematics and on foundations (logic and set theory), but you also choose options.
In the fourth year there are no compulsory subjects, and you can do all mathematics, all philosophy, or a combination of the two.
First University examinations: five compulsory written papers
Final University examinations, Part A (Year 2): two written papers on pure mathematics core and two written papers on mathematics options
Final University examinations, Part B (Year 3): four 90-minute exams in mathematics and three three-hour papers in philosophy and either two further 90-minute mathematics exams or one further three-hour philosophy paper (or the equivalent)
A full list of current options is available on the Mathematics website and the Philosophy website.
Final University Examinations, Part C: philosophy subjects include a 5000-word essay.
Students study three philosophy subjects or eight mathematics units, or a mixture of the two disciplines.
The majority of those who read Mathematics and Philosophy will have taken both Mathematics and Further Mathematics at A-level (or equivalent).
During the interview for philosophy you will be given the opportunity to show a critical and analytical approach to abstract questions and the ability to defend a viewpoint by reasoned argument.
In mathematics you may find yourself asked to look at problems of a type that you have never seen before.
Don’t worry, we will help you!
We want to see if you can respond to suggestions as to how to tackle new things, rather than find out simply what you have been taught.
Visit the Mathematics website and Philosophy website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
Graduates secure positions in diverse areas, both in the UK and abroad, such as:
Around 30% of graduates go on to further academic study.
Katherine worked for the Bodleian Libraries after graduating.
She found that the logical problem-solving skills and attention to detail she gained from studying mathematics came in useful when tackling new technical challenges in her work and whilst she completed a second graduate degree.
The experience of studying both subjects so intensely, and having to pick up and apply new knowledge quickly, gave her the confidence to work with new subject areas, including legal and medical research libraries.
Mathematics Open Days - 26 April and 3 May 2025
Mathematical Sciences at The University of Oxford was one listed as of the best in the UK in the most recent (2021) Research Excellence Framework (REF).
Students interested in this course might also like to consider other Mathematics courses or Computer Science and Philosophy .
Why not have a look at the reading lists for prospective Mathematics and Philosophy applicants on the Maths Department's website ?
You can also find out more about the department's research at the Oxford Mathematics Alphabet .
For an introduction to philosophy have a look at Myles Burnyeat and Ted Honderich’s Philosophy , Martin Hollis' An Invitation to Philosophy and Simon Blackburn’s Think.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/mathematics-and-statistics:
Interviewed: 31% Successful: 9% Intake: 182 *3-year average 2022-24
All over the world, human beings create an immense and ever-increasing volume of data, with new kinds of data regularly emerging from science and industry.
A new understanding of the value of these data to society has emerged, and with it, a new and leading role for statistics.
In order to produce sensible theories and draw accurate conclusions from data, cutting-edge statistical methods are needed.
These methods use advanced mathematical ideas combined with modern computational techniques, which require expert knowledge and experience to apply.
A degree in Mathematics and Statistics equips you with the requisite skills for developing and implementing these methods.
The course provides a fascinating combination of deep and mathematically well-grounded method-building and wide-ranging applied work with data.
">Video of Mathematics and Statistics at Oxford University
The Department of Statistics at Oxford is an exciting and dynamic place to study, with teaching and research strengths in a wide range of modern areas of statistical science.
Many of its academic staff work in the development of fundamental statistical methodology and probability.
There is a strong new research group working on statistical machine learning and scalable methods for Big Data.
The department has a world-leading team applying new statistical methods to huge genetic data sets in order to unlock the secrets of human genetic variation and disease.
Other groups work on applied probability, network analysis, and medical, actuarial and financial applications.
These interests are reflected in the lecture courses available to undergraduates in their third and fourth years.
'I find the range of practical applications for statistics really appealing.
I heard a talk about the uses of statistics at a Maths open day, and immediately knew that this would be the right course for me.
I have lectures in both pure and applied maths each week, and then have problem sheets that I have to prepare for my tutorials.
It’s great fun to try and solve a variety of different problems using newly learnt skills.
I have a tutor for each of the five subjects that I’m studying this term, and about three tutorials a week, so the work is pretty intense.
As the groups are so small, each tutorial can be tailored precisely to what you don’t understand, making it a very efficient way of learning.'
Henry
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Mathematics and Statistics.
The typical week of a student in Mathematics and Statistics is similar to that for Mathematics :
Visit our Academic Year page to find out more about how our teaching year is structured.
The first year of this course is identical to Mathematics , and the core mathematics part of the degree is completed in the first term of the second year.
You will also follow second-year Mathematics courses in probability and statistics, and the remainder of the second year allows for some choice of topics in preparation for the greater selectivity of the third and fourth years.
Admission to this course is joint with Mathematics, and applicants do not choose between the two degrees until the end of their fourth term at Oxford.
There are two Mathematics and Statistics degrees, the three-year BA and the four-year MMath.
All third- and fourth-year mathematical topics available in the Mathematics course are also available to Mathematics and Statistics students.
The fourth year is naturally more challenging and provides an opportunity for more in-depth study, including a substantial Statistics project.
Compulsory Year 1 includes:
First University examinations: five compulsory papers; Computational mathematics projects
Current core courses:
Current options:
Final University examinations, Part A: five core papers and four or five optional papers
Final University examinations, Part B: the equivalent of eight written papers including assessed practicals
Current options include:
A full list of current options is available on the Mathematics and Statistics websites.
Final University examinations, Part C: the equivalent of eight written papers.
Visit the Maths Department website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
In recent years, 96% of Mathematics and Statistics graduates and 95% of Mathematics graduates were in work or further study six months after graduation.
The majority have joined the insurance and financial services professions, but there are a wide range of options for graduates whose studies have included a substantial amount of statistics and applied probability.
There is great demand for those wishing to work in the relatively new area of data science, while careers in fields as diverse as health, technology, education and industry are all possible.
Why not have a look at the reading lists for prospective applicants on the Mathematics website or in the mathematical sciences prospectus ?

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/medicine:
UCAS code: A100 Entrance requirements: A*AA (excluding Critical Thinking and Thinking Skills) Course duration: 3 years (BA); 6 years (BM BCh)
Required subjects: Chemistry with either Maths, Further Maths, Biology or Physics.
Admissions tests: UCAT Written Work: None
Interviewed: 25% Successful: 9% Intake: 153 *3-year average 2022-24
This page is about the standard-entry Medicine course (A100).
The standard Oxford medical course has separate pre-clinical (years 1-3) and clinical (years 4-6) components.
Students first gain a comprehensive grounding in medical science, before applying that scientific foundation in the clinical setting.
Visit the A101 page to find out about our graduate-entry/accelerated medical degree.
The practice of Medicine offers a breadth of experiences impossible to find in any other subject.
Every day brings different patients with different needs.
It’s a great choice for scientists who strive to understand and apply research findings to improve the lives of the patients in their care.
It offers a meaningful career that is prestigious, secure and well paid.
However, practising Medicine can be arduous, stressful, frustrating and bureaucratic and is not suited to everyone.
You need to be sure that Medicine is the right choice for you.
These pages will help you work that out, but there’s no better way to find out for sure than by gaining insight into medical practice by seeing it in action and talking to those who provide healthcare.
Studying Medicine because that is what is expected of you is never a good idea; make sure that your motives for choosing to do so are well-reasoned.
The Medicine course at Oxford provides a thorough intellectual training with particular emphasis on the basic science research that underpins medicine.
We have retained a distinct three-year pre-clinical stage that includes studying towards a BA Honours degree in Medical Sciences, followed by a three-year clinical stage.
The School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences at Oxford is relatively small, allowing students and staff to get to know one another and benefit from a relaxed and friendly atmosphere.
All A100 students at Oxford undertake an experimental research project as part of their BA in Medical Sciences.
This will be in a field of interest to the student, and will offer valuable first-hand experience of scientific research.
Students have the opportunity to undertake research in a laboratory from a wide range of departments within the Medical Sciences Division.
'I was attracted to the strong scientific grounding of the Oxford medical course.
The pre-clinical course enables you to gain in-depth knowledge of the science behind clinical practice while experiencing the primary scientific research that fuels medical progression.
The first year encompasses organisation of the body ...
an incredibly useful tool in learning anatomy!
Being lectured by people who are world leaders in their field is awe-inspiring and gives an edge to my learning.
I’m currently in my third year and love the freedom and self-direction of my research project.
I am developing skills as a scientist which will be useful in clinical practice, while also getting to grips with topics that fascinate me.
I love being able to trace current developments in the field and apply them to potential future therapeutic applications.'
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Medicine.
Applicants are initially admitted to the pre-clinical stage of the course.
The first five terms of this course are devoted to the First BM.
This addresses not only much of the science that underpins Medicine, but also the clinical problems that arise when systems fail.
Students are introduced to the major systems of the body and study all aspects of their structure and function in health and also the principles of disease processes.
Students are encouraged to develop an enquiring approach and to consider the experimental basis of the science in the course.
Matters of clinical relevance are illustrated from the outset with students making regular visits to GP tutors.
The First BM is followed by a four-term BA Honours course (the Final Honours School) in Medical Sciences.
Students specialise in areas of biomedical science selected from a range of options.
They will become adept at working from primary research literature, and will be encouraged to think both critically and creatively.
Students will gain in-depth knowledge of their chosen options, as well as advanced technical skills at the laboratory bench and in scientific data handling and presentation.
During the First BM, lectures and practicals occupy about half of the time, and the remainder is free for tutorial work, self-directed study and extracurricular activities.
During the BA course, formal lecturing is kept to a minimum, and students are mostly free to pursue their research and to prepare for tutorials and seminars.
The college tutorial system is a central feature: students see their tutors and are taught weekly in groups often as small as two.
This teaching can be tailored to individuals’ needs and interests and strong academic support ensures that students manage their time effectively.
Classes and seminars usually contain between 10 and 50 students, while lectures are for up to 200 students.
In the pre-clinical stage of the course (years 1-3), most tutorials, classes, and lectures take place in the Medical Sciences Teaching Centre in the Science Area and are delivered by members of academic staff, research staff or NHS clinicians (usually at the level of consultant).
Some tutorial and class teaching may also be delivered by postgraduate students who are usually studying at doctoral level.
In the clinical stage of the course (years 4-6), most teaching is delivered by clinicians from the Oxford University Hospitals NHS Trust as well as local primary care physicians, and University academic staff.
Registered Oxford medical students who are eligible to progress to Clinical studies may apply to transfer to Oxford Clinical Medicine during the final year of their pre-clinical studies.
BTEC Level 3 Extended Diploma :
Other national and international qualifications are also acceptable.
Please visit the Medical Sciences website for further guidance.
Any candidate in doubt as to their academic eligibility for this course is strongly encouraged to seek advice by emailing [email protected] .
Visit the Medical School's guidance on submitting information about extenuating circumstances .
Please note that we have no preference for whether the third or fourth A-level subject (or further subject in equivalent qualifications) is a science or not.
There are no formal GCSE requirements for Medicine.
However, in order to be adequately equipped for the application process and for the academic demands of the course, applicants will need to have received a basic education in Biology, Physics and Mathematics.
For example, students should have received at least a grade C/4 at GCSE, Intermediate 2 or Standard grade (Credit) or equivalent.
The GCSE Dual Award Combined Sciences is also appropriate.
Visit the Medical Sciences Shortlisting page for further details on how we assess GCSEs.
Students with degrees may apply for the standard course.
There are no places specifically reserved for graduates, and there is no separate application process.
Graduates are in open competition with school-leavers, and need to fulfil the same entrance requirements.
No student is admitted without interview.
Successful candidates must meet our requirements for health and fitness to practise .
All candidates must also take the University Clinical Aptitude Test (UCAT) as part of their application.
Separate registration for this test is required and it is the responsibility of the candidate to ensure that they are registered.
We strongly recommend making arrangements in plenty of time before the deadline.
Please visit our UCAT webpage for further information.
Please note that competition to study Medicine at Oxford is particularly strong and only around 425 applicants are shortlisted for interview each year.
No student is admitted without interview.
Students are selected for their scientific ability and for their aptitude for Medicine.
Applicants are expected to show that they have a realistic understanding of what a medical career will involve, and that they have the potential to become effective and caring doctors.
All colleges use a common set of selection criteria that relate to academic potential and suitability for Medicine.
Visit the School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences website for further information about selection criteria .
Applicants are free to make reference to skills or experience acquired in any context to illustrate how they might fulfil the selection criteria.
Sometimes candidates refer to voluntary work and other extra-curricular activities, but many forms of evidence can help demonstrate to tutors that a candidate has made an informed decision regarding their own suitability to study Medicine.
The Medical Schools Council has released some useful advice on gaining relevant experience in healthcare .
Please note that the number of international fee status medical students at each medical school in the UK is subject to a government quota.
For Oxford this quota is currently a maximum of 14 per year across both the standard entry A100 and A101 graduate-entry/accelerated Medicine courses.
Oxford conforms to the UK Department of Health’s requirements regarding immunisation status and the GMC’s conditions on Fitness to Practise, and a satisfactory Disclosure and Barring Service check.
Students may be refused entry to, or be removed from, the University’s Register of Medical Students on grounds that may be either academic or non-academic (for instance health or conduct).
Applicants should be aware that some practical studies involving living animal tissue are an obligatory component of the course.
Note that students must have reached their 18th birthday by 1 November in the year they intend to start the course.
Fitness to Practise advice and support: General Medical Council and University of Oxford Occupational Health Service .
A vast array of speciality training pathways are available after obtaining a medical qualification, ranging from general practice or emergency medicine through obstetrics or ophthalmology to paediatrics or psychiatry.
Of course, you need not remain confined to the clinic, the ward or the operating theatre: the lecture theatre or the laboratory could also beckon.
Some of our graduates end up leading the education of the next generation of doctors or directing biomedical research.
You don’t need to know right now what you want to do when you qualify.
The Clinical School organises careers sessions for final-year clinical students and helps students learn about and apply for foundation posts.
BM BCh graduates are entitled to provisional registration with the General Medical Council (GMC) with a licence to practise, subject to demonstrating to the GMC that their fitness to practise is not impaired.
Tzveta is a consultant in oncology.
‘Many universities can teach you how to be a foundation doctor.
Oxford taught me how to work through problems carefully and logically from first principles, and gave me the theoretical grounding to be able to do so.
I had the opportunity to read key papers in my subject, then discuss them with the academics who had published them.
Most importantly, Oxford taught me that I was capable of much more than I imagined or believed.
Though I have gone from essay crises to night shifts, from finals to Royal College exams, the focused determination it instilled within me remains, driving me through any challenges faced along the way.’
Kanmin graduated from pre-clinical medicine in 2003.
He is now a National Institute of Health Research (NIHR) Academic Clinical Lecturer in ophthalmology at the University of Oxford.
He is undergoing 50:50 surgical retina fellowship training and translational research into gene therapy for inherited retinal diseases.
Kanmin says:
‘The weekly essays and tutorials with world-leading academics in the colleges were an invaluable experience.
In those intimate ‘mind sparring’ exercises, you go beyond the standard curriculum and probe the boundaries of the fundamental science behind modern medicine.
In this way, Oxford nurtures not only sound medical practitioners but also future explorers and leaders in medicine… Of course, studying medicine at Oxford involves a lot of hard work.
But the opportunities are also there to take part in the most vibrant student society/club life, whatever your hobby or background.’
These annual fees are for full-time students who begin this undergraduate course here in 2025.
Pre-clinical fees are charged in years 1, 2 and 3.
Fees for the later years have not yet been confirmed but please note that these may be different from the pre-clinical fees.
Clinical fees are charged in years 4 to 6.
As a guide, these are the annual fees for students who will complete the pre-clinical stage of their course and progress to the clinical years in 2025.
Please note that these fees apply to continuing students only.
Living costs for the academic year starting in 2025 are estimated to be between £1,425 and £2,035 for each month you are in Oxford.
Please refer to the ‘Additional Fees and charges’ section below for information about the extended terms which apply for each year of the course in order to estimate your living costs.
In 2022 Oxford is offering one of the most generous bursary packages of any UK university to Home students with a family income of around £42,875 or less, with additional opportunities available to UK students from households with incomes of £27,500 or less.
The support you can access from the government will depend on your residency status
Visit our Funding for UK medical students page for comprehensive funding information.
Please refer to the 'Other Scholarships' section of our Oxford Bursaries and Scholarships page .
Students in the Clinical School study for extended terms.
You will need to budget for higher living costs in these three years, as you will be required to be in Oxford for longer than the standard terms.
Visit Funding for UK/EU Medical Students for more information about fees and funding for this course.
Each final-year student has a period of 10 weeks for elective study within the overall 48 weeks of the course.
(This is year 6 for A100 students).
Your elective study may be conducted in Oxford, elsewhere in the UK, or anywhere in the world provided the content of the placement is appropriate experience for medicine.
Approval must be granted by the Director of Clinical Studies.
A student who stays in Oxford for their elective would be expected to incur no additional costs apart from their living costs.
Many students opt to travel outside the UK in which case the additional cost is on average around £3,000, but may be lower or higher depending on location (very occasionally a student has spent up to £9,000).
Students who have not completed the core training in clinical medicine may be required to follow a prescribed course of study in Oxford for all or part of their 10-week elective instead of arranging a placement.
There are opportunities to apply for additional financial support which varies depending on the destination proposed.
We regret that the University of Oxford Medicine course cannot accept requests from students wishing to transfer from other universities to Oxford.
Additionally, Oxford does not accept students who wish to spend a year at the University as part of an intercalated course in Medicine.
Applications will also not be considered from people already studying medicine elsewhere who wish to apply to study the course from Year 1.
Read the Medical School's guidance on submitting information about extenuating circumstances .
The Medical Schools Council website is a useful resource for anyone thinking of applying for Medicine, offering advice, resources and events for students and their teachers and supporters.
Read the Medical Schools Council's advice on gaining relevant experience in healthcare .
Oxford Medical Sciences have been ranked number one for the last ten years in the Times Higher Education World University Rankings for clinical, pre-clinical and health sciences.
You might like to have a look at the Introductory Reading for Medicine .
You may also be interested in the Oxford Medicine newsletter .
The Medical Schools Council also has a number of videos containing further advice on applying to Medicine degrees.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/medicine-accelerated:
UCAS code: A101 Entrance requirements: See Admissions Requirements tab Course duration: 4 years (BM BCh)
Interviewed: 37% Successful: 14% Intake: 32 *3-year average 2022-24
This page is about the four-year graduate-entry/accelerated medicine course (A101).
Visit the A100 page to find out about our standard-entry medical degree.
The four-year graduate-entry/ accelerated course (UCAS code A101 BMBCh4) is open to graduates who have a degree in an experimental science subject .
The course has a strong emphasis on the academic basis of medicine taught within a clinical context.
We aim to produce doctors who are broadly educated in science and clinical practice, and whose clinical practice is informed by their scientific approach to medicine.
Fostering discussion-based learning within a small cohort, the programme builds upon the skills students have developed during their prior studies.
It includes a thorough exploration and critical appraisal of both clinical and scientific literature, focusing on its application to clinical practice.
The first year integrates early clinical teaching in both hospital and community settings, giving students a solid foundation in clinical practice from the outset.
Students also have the opportunity to explore personal interests through the Academic Special Interest Project and the Longitudinal Patient Case Study.
In addition to the teaching on the course, the college system provides weekly teaching from a college tutor (usually in groups of 2-4) in the early years.
College tutors also provide strong pastoral support throughout the course.
This may be the right course for you, if you:
The first two years cover core medical science and clinical skills.
In the first year the curriculum focuses on biomedical science taught within a clinical context which is combined with clinical teaching.
In the second year, students continue with further core medical science, with increased time spent on clinical attachments.
The final two years are shared with the six-year course.
Students are fully integrated into the clinical course by the end of the second year of the programme and take the same final exams as candidates on the six-year course.
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Medicine (graduate entry).
The first year builds on students’ prior knowledge, covering essential core science for medicine, as well as fundamental clinical and consultation skills, such as history taking and clinical examination.
Students will spend one full day each week on clinical placement.
The aim of this year is to establish a strong foundation in medical science and clinical skills, while helping students understand the application of science in clinical practice and gain hands-on experience.
In the second year, students continue to develop their core science and clinical skills through university-based teaching and clinical placements.
Early in the year, the Laboratory Medicine course introduces key disciplines such as microbiology, pathology, haematology, and immunology.
As the year progresses, students participate in full-time clinical placements both in Oxford and at other hospitals in the region.
By the end of the second year, students will have gained confidence in a broad range of clinical skills and developed foundational knowledge of common presentations and diseases.
In the third year, students are fully integrated into the standard clinical course.
The year consists of rotations across various clinical specialties, including General Practice, Paediatrics, and Psychiatry.
The goal of this year is to deepen clinical knowledge through specialist rotations focused on common clinical presentations.
More details about this year of study can be found on the clinical course pages of the Medical Sciences Division website.
The final year is designed to prepare students for their professional lives after qualification.
It includes further full-time placements in medical and surgical specialties, with students sitting their final exams in January and February.
Throughout the year, there are opportunities for student-selected special study modules, where students can explore areas of particular clinical or academic interest.
There is also an elective period, allowing students to spend time abroad or in settings outside Oxford.
The last few months of the year are dedicated to a student assistantship, preparing students for their role as Foundation Doctors, and completing the preparing-for-practice course.
You can read more about this year of study on the clinical course pages of the Medical Sciences Division website.
The course is open to graduates with a 2.1 degree or above (or a GPA above 3.5) in applied and experimental science, including bioscience, chemistry, experimental physics and engineering.
Check the list of courses that are typically acceptable .
If your degree is not listed, or if you are unsure whether it is acceptable, please follow the steps outlined on the Medical Sciences Division website.
In addition to your degree, you must also have passes at A-level of at least AAB with an A or A* in Chemistry (if you have taken A-levels within the last 5 years).
One of these subjects must be Chemistry (unless you have a degree in Chemistry).
Applicants must also have one from Biology, Physics or Mathematics at A-level.
Applicants with a degree in a subject other than bioscience must have a qualification in biology at GCSE or equivalent level.
Visit the Medical Sciences Division website for more information on selection criteria .
The application process for the graduate-entry/ accelerated medicine course (A101) is slightly different to those for the standard course.
Please read this page carefully to ensure you take all the steps you need to make an application.
Visit the Medical Sciences Division website for more information about any of the application stages .
Applications for the accelerated, graduate-entry medicine course must be made both through UCAS (online) and direct to the University (on a supplementary form ).
This means applicants have two forms to complete.
Please note that we cannot consider applications that are incomplete.
You must complete both a UCAS application and an Oxford application form by the deadline in order to apply.
The following colleges accept applications for Graduate-entry Medicine.
*Green Templeton is a graduate-only college, which admits graduate-entry medical students and clinical medical students.
**Harris Manchester is a mature student only college, so applicants must be at least 21 years of age when they start their course.
Application forms for the University are available online , together with notes explaining how to complete your application.
As part of completing this form you will have to provide:
The application form must be completed by 6pm on 15 October 2025 .
Please be aware that your referees will need to provide their references by 6pm on 22 October 2025, in order to complete your application.
We cannot consider applications that arrive after this date.
All candidates must take the University Clinical Aptitude Test (UCAT) as part of their application.
Visit the Medical Sciences Division website for more information about the selection criteria used .
Please note that competition to study Medicine at Oxford is particularly strong.
There are approximately 40-45 places for accelerated/ graduate-entry medicine.
Oxford conforms to the UK Department of Health’s requirements regarding immunisation status and the GMC’s conditions on Fitness to Practise, and a satisfactory Disclosure and Barring Service check.
Students may be refused entry to, or be removed from, the University’s Register of Medical Students on grounds that may be either academic or non-academic (for instance health or conduct).
Please note that students must have reached their 18th birthday on or before the first day of full term in the first year of this course.
A vast array of speciality training pathways is available after obtaining a medical qualification, ranging from General Practice or emergency medicine through obstetrics or ophthalmology to paediatrics or psychiatry, and many graduates of the course will combine a clinical career with wider interests in either research, education or leadership.
Although most will stay in clinical practice, a small number will follow a career outside of medicine, perhaps in the pharmaceutical industry or solely in academia.
The programme offers career discussion, guidance and support throughout, and students are given the opportunity to meet with faculty to discuss career aspirations.
Graduates will mostly end up practicing in the UK, however a small number will look to undertake clinical practice abroad in the US, Europe or elsewhere.
BM BCh graduates are entitled to provisional registration with the General Medical Council (GMC) with a licence to practise, subject to demonstrating to the GMC that their fitness to practise is not impaired.
Hannah is a graduate of the course who is currently in postgraduate training.
Prior to studying on the programme, she had studied Veterinary Sciences.
‘It was a privilege to study on the graduate-entry medicine (GEM) course at Oxford.
A combination of the course’s small cohort with diverse backgrounds and the collegiate system enables extremely high quality and interactive learning on a very well organised course.
I really appreciated that the pre-clinical section is ‘tailor-made’ for the GEM students (not always the case on GEM courses) and includes clinical exposure and dedicated research.
Beyond the core, students are encouraged to work on personal interests with course directors, lecturers or wider university faculty, who readily advocate for you to explore avenues beyond the minimum expectations – whether it is research, education or something else including non-clinical.
For example, I am extremely grateful for the support I received from the course leads to begin integration of Education for Sustainable Healthcare into the curriculum and encouragement for my work internationally in this space.
There is no doubt GEM at Oxford is intense and wouldn’t necessarily suit everyone but from my point of view I can’t imagine a GEM course that would have inspired me to achieve as much as I did, alongside loving the course and making friends for life.
The course leads are still mentoring me in my next career steps.’
Pre-clinical fees are charged in year 1 of the graduate-entry/ accelerated course (A101), although there are clinical elements of study throughout the course.
Clinical fees are charged in years 2 to 4 of the graduate-entry/ accelerated course (A101).
Visit our Funding for UK medical students page for comprehensive funding information.
The Graduate-entry Medicine course has extended terms.
This means that you will need to budget for slightly higher living costs in all years, but especially in Years 2-4, as you will be required to be in Oxford for longer than the standard term.
Visit the likely range of living costs for an additional month in Oxford.
View Funding for UK/EU Medical Students for more information about fees and funding for this course.
Each final year student has a period of 10 weeks for elective study within the overall 48 weeks of the course.
(This is year 4 for A101 students.)
Many students opt to travel outside the UK in which case the additional cost is on average around £3,000 but may be lower or higher depending on location.
There are opportunities to apply for additional financial support which varies but is usually around £300 to £500 towards travel costs.
Colleges may also provide support towards elective costs.
Read the Medical Schools Council's advice on gaining relevant experience in healthcare.
You may be interested in the Oxford Medical School Gazette .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/modern-languages:
UCAS code: See course combinations Entrance requirements: AAA Course duration: 4 years with a year abroad (BA)
Required subjects: One or more modern languages (depending on course choice).
Admissions tests: MLAT Written Work: None
Interviewed: 94% Successful: 42% Intake: 144 *3-year average 2022-24
As well as learning to write and speak the language(s) fluently, you can study a broad range of literature, or focus your studies on any period from the medieval to the present day.
A wide range of other options allow you to explore subjects including linguistics, philology, film or gender studies or (in French, German and Spanish) advanced translation.
">Video of Modern Languages at Oxford University
Modern Languages have been taught in Oxford since 1724.
The faculty is the largest in the country, with a total intake of more than 250 students a year (including joint courses).
Undergraduate students have access to the Taylor Institution Library , the biggest research library in Britain devoted to modern languages, and the University’s central library the Bodleian , as well as many online resources.
The University’s well-equipped Language Centre has resources specifically tailored to the needs of Modern Language students.
Language is at the centre of the Oxford course, making up around 50% of both first-year and final examinations.
The course aims to teach spoken fluency in colloquial and more formal situations, as well as the ability to write essays in the foreign language, and the ability to translate into and out of the foreign language with accuracy and sensitivity to a range of vocabulary, styles and registers.
You will also develop your reading skills to a high level.
The study of literature gives you an understanding of other cultures that cannot be acquired solely through learning the language.
It leads you into areas such as:
These areas of study develop your skills as a critical reader, writer and thinker.
Modern Languages students spend a compulsory year abroad, usually in the third year.
Opportunities for the year abroad include (but aren't restricted to):
These opportunities all provide valuable experiences for improving language competence.
For UK students with a shortfall in their finances, the University’s Student Support Fund may provide additional assistance.
Please view our guidance on choosing a college , and which language combinations are available at each college.
'I really have genuinely enjoyed all my modules.
People worry about the fact that the modern languages course is so literature heavy and assume that it might become repetitive with so many literary modules.
But it doesn't.
Each of my literature modules have been so different, raised different questions, shed light on different areas of history and politics.
I also love the tutorial system - it's definitely what makes the Oxbridge system so unique I think.
You can push ideas as far as they will go and, although there is pressure with there being so few of you and the tutor, it makes you think and argue in a completely different way.'
Rosanna
'I study French and Portuguese, which is a very niche combination (I'm one of two students in my year group doing it).
It involves doing lots of different things and has lots of variety, which I really enjoy, and it is very satisfying to start making connections between the different aspects of culture, literature and language as I have got to know them better.'
Olivia
'I loved the Modern Languages course at Oxford.
I felt like I was constantly being 'pushed' (maybe not the right word) intellectually and was always invited to think and study widely.
I think this impulse to push myself to learn is something I've taken with me into the jobs I have done since I graduated.
As part of my degree I lived and worked in France and Brazil: my experiences in these two countries have hugely shaped my interests and movements post-graduation.
It was the main reason that I went back to live in Brazil after leaving Oxford and the main reason that I wanted to work in Modern Languages education upon my return to the UK.'
Sarah
Joint language courses (Czech, French, German, Modern Greek, Italian, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish)
Your week’s work will include a tutorial in, or organised by, your college, language classes in the language(s) you study, and typically three to four hours of lectures for each subject.
Seminar and language class sizes may vary depending on the options you choose or the language you are studying, but there would usually be no more than 20 students and classes would often be much smaller.
Your first year is closely structured.
You will attend oral, grammar and translation classes.
You will also attend typically three to four hours of introductory lectures and participate in seminars and/or tutorials on literature.
If you study French, German, Spanish or Russian as a single language you will take a range of further options in that language in the first year.
All other languages must be studied in combination with another language or another subject.
Your other years of study give you more freedom to choose the areas on which you wish to focus, from a very wide range of options.
Students may take Polish as a subsidiary language, beginning in the second year.
Catalan, Galician, Yiddish and most of the Slavonic languages (including Ukrainian) may also be taken as additional options.
First University examinations ("Prelims"): written papers in both language and literature (language only for Beginners’ Russian)
There are no formal examinations in the second year.
Typically spent abroad (with the exception of courses involving Beginners’ Russian or a Middle Eastern language – see above).
Students spend a minimum of 24 weeks in an immersive target language environment.
There are no formal examinations during the year abroad.
Continues the course from Year 2, plus an optional dissertation, and special subjects across a very wide range of options such as film studies, advanced translation, women’s writing, visual cultures, race and representation, new ecologies.
Final University examinations:  a combination of written papers, coursework submissions and an oral examination are taken.
More information about the options available in each of the different languages can be found on the Modern Languages website .
There are several combinations available that allow students to study a language as a beginner.
However, please note that it is not usually possible for students to study two beginners' languages or a language from scratch on its own.
Language
For candidates applying with the language to A-level or equivalent
For candidates applying to study a beginners’ language
Beginners’ courses allow students to start studying any language (except for French and Spanish) from scratch, meaning no prior knowledge of the language is expected.
Please note there are different course codes for these courses.
The Beginners’ German course also includes an intermediate option for those who have studied some German.
Find out more at the Modern Languages website .
For courses with Polish, see the Modern Languages website .
Students are welcome to apply for deferred entry for any language courses except those including Beginners’ Russian.
These courses allow students to study a new language from scratch, along with another language which they have already studied to A-level, or equivalent.
All candidates must take the Modern Languages Admissions Test (MLAT) as part of their application.
Tutors will be looking for a good command of the grammar of any language you have already studied at school and want to continue studying at Oxford, as well as an interest in literature and culture.
At interview, tutors will want to find out as much as possible about your intellectual interests and academic potential, so you may be asked about your reading or your interest in the culture of the relevant country.
You may be asked questions about a short text in English or the relevant foreign language(s).
You will be given the opportunity to speak in the relevant foreign language(s) which you have studied to an advanced level.
Visit the Modern Languages website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
Oxford aims to produce world-class linguists and the skills gained and fostered by studying languages at degree level are much-prized by employers.
Their knowledge and transferable skills ensure that modern linguists are amongst the most sought-after graduates in Britain.
Employers in the UK and abroad value Modern Languages graduates because they are competent in one or two languages, have acquired first-hand experience of other cultures, and possess a range of transferable skills including:
Amongst the careers successfully followed by modern linguists are:
Catherine is Director of the Refugee Support Network.
‘Since graduating from Oxford, I have worked in the field of refugee education and education in emergencies for various charities, including Save the Children and various United Nations agencies.
The skills I gained at Oxford have helped me to analyse situations thoughtfully and critically, and gave me the confidence to establish the Refugee Support Network in 2009.
I never thought I would use my language skills in situations as diverse as Sudanese refugee camps, with Haitian earthquake survivors and with young victims of trafficking in London.’
View the Unistats data for each course combination .
Courses including beginners’ Russian (or a Middle Eastern language) are slightly different, as they are the only courses with a prescribed year abroad activity (see course structure tab).
Students will not incur an additional course fee for this, however, they will be liable for additional administration and visa fees.
Currently the combined fee for these is approximately £250.
Click on each of the following UCAS codes to view further subject specific information and the Unistats data provided by Discover Uni for each subject option.
B in the table below stands for beginners.
Deferred entry: students are welcome to apply for deferred entry for any language courses except those including Beginners’ Russian.
Students may study a single modern language or two languages together, including languages started at beginners’ level.
You can view the available combinations and their course codes on this page, under 'Course data'.
Oxford Modern Languages has been consistently ranked in the top three in the QS world rankings by subject since 2014.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/modern-languages-and-linguistics:
Required subjects: A modern language (depending on course choice).
Recommended subjects: Not applicable Helpful subjects: English Language, Maths, a science or any other language.
Admissions tests: MLAT (depending on course choice) Written Work: None
Interviewed: 96% Successful: 40% Intake: 36 Successful for a different course: 2% Applicant intake for a different course: 2 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 280400 Email: [email protected]
This course allows students to study one modern language in depth together with linguistics, the study of language itself.
Part of your course will consist of developing your practical language skills to a high level, and you will also explore the literature and culture of the relevant language.
In your study of linguistics, you will be introduced to the analysis of the nature and structure of human language.
This will include topics such as how words and sentences are formed, how we make and hear sounds, how languages change and vary and how language is organised in the brain, and you will apply these ideas to the study of your chosen language.
">Video of Modern Languages and Linguistics at Oxford University
Please note that the course video refers to the Linguistics Aptitude Test, which is no longer part of the admissions process.
The Faculty of Linguistics, Philology, and Phonetics has particular expertise in:
All these combine to offer a mutually reinforcing package.
On the one hand, the theoretical study of what human language is and how it works.
On the other, the detailed study of issues of language structure and change applied to the specific language you are studying.
You will find a wide range of options available, allowing you to concentrate on those areas you find most exciting.
Undergraduate students have access to the Taylor Institution Library , the biggest research library in Britain devoted to modern languages, as well as to the University’s central library, the Bodleian , and many online resources.
The University’s well-equipped Language Centre has study materials specifically tailored to the needs of Modern Language students.
'Studying at Oxford made me realise that I could, if I so chose to, do pretty much anything I wanted to in the world.
That I studied at such a prestigious university was important consideration given by the employers (and can often be the difference in getting a job or losing out to someone from a non-Russell Group university).
Being from a state school background, it was eye opening to see how much work was involved in an Oxford degree, and I struggled at times.
However, the tutors recognised hard work and I was able to share my passion for my chosen subjects with academics who were thought-leaders in the field.'
Ash
French, German, Modern Greek, Beginners' Italian, Italian, Beginners' Portuguese, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish
Linguistics
Your typical week will include a tutorial on linguistics or literature, a linguistics class, language classes on different skills relating to the language or languages you study, and five or six lectures.
First University examinations: six or seven written papers, including translation and literature
Final University examinations: eight or nine papers and an oral examination
Subject requirements
For Linguistics and French, German*, Modern Greek*, Italian*, Portuguese*, Russian and Spanish candidates would usually be expected to have the language to A-level, Advanced Higher, Higher Level in the IB or another academic equivalent.
*There is the option to study German, Modern Greek, Italian and Portuguese from scratch with Linguistics, meaning you would not be expected to have the language to A-level, Advanced Higher, Higher Level in the IB or equivalent.
No experience of studying Linguistics is required, though knowledge of the relevant modern language may be expected, as detailed below.
RQ41
Most candidates will take the Modern Languages Admissions Test (MLAT) as part of their application.
The MLAT is not required for Linguistics with a Beginners' Language and there is no separate admissions test for Linguistics.
Language tutors look for a good command of any language you have already studied and want to continue studying at Oxford, and a strong interest in literature and culture.
Linguistics is a subject that most students start from scratch at University.
Therefore, admission tutors look for potential, in the form of an interest in exploring the nature of human language, together with an aptitude for describing and analysing it.
Furthermore, tutors look for a willingness to learn the formal tools required for rigorous and detailed investigation and leading to a deep understanding of the use, history and structure of the language you are studying.
The training in rigorous analysis provided by Linguistics, coupled with highly developed practical competence in a language, gives graduates an excellent basis for a wide range of careers in language-related employment and other areas.
Over the course of the degree, Modern Languages and Linguistics students also acquire first-hand experience of other cultures and a range of transferable skills including:
Recent Modern Languages and Linguistics graduates include a management consultant, a brand marketing manager, a market researcher for a company in the chemical industry, and a psychology lecturer.
Joe, who went on to become a Head of Languages, said:
‘I really enjoyed studying the earliest Russian texts, written on birch bark, and looking at how the language had evolved and its impacts on the contemporary language.
Investigating languages demands diligence, focus and determination; the course also developed many critical skills that are essential for interesting careers – analytical reading, discussion, listening skills, presentation skills, and a keen writing style.
Thank you Oxford!’
French and Linguistics
RQ11
Beginners' German and Linguistics
QR12
German and Linguistics
RQ21
Modern Greek and Linguistics
QQ71
Beginners' Italian and Linguistics
QR13
Italian and Linguistics
RQ31
Beginners' Portuguese and Linguistics
RQ5D
Portuguese and Linguistics
RQ51
Russian and Linguistics
RQ71
Spanish and Linguistics
Modern Languages Open Day - 17 May 2025

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/music:
UCAS code: W300 Entrance requirements: AAA Course duration: 3 years (BA)
Required subjects: Music A-level (or equivalent) or Music Theory Grade 7 or above (see admissions requirements tab).
Admissions tests: Music performance video (but no written test) Written Work: Three pieces (two essays and one piece of harmony or counterpoint)
Interviewed: 93% Successful: 41% Intake: 76 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 286264 Email: [email protected]
Music is everywhere in the world around us; it is part of all of our lives, whether we play it, actively listen to it, or hear it in passing.
At Oxford, we study music by reading, listening, performing and composing.
We create music in all its aspects – acoustic, electronic, individually and communally, working with world-class professionals and with local communities.
We analyse the relationships within a piece of music, and between that piece and its genre and context.
Throughout the course, you will be exposed to music of all kinds and in all contexts:
">Video of Music at Oxford University
Music has been part of the life of Oxford for more than 800 years.
There are around 30 academic staff, of whom 15 give lectures regularly – scholars with distinguished reputations as musicologists, performers and composers.
Oxford welcomes visits from numerous speakers and professional performing ensembles.
From October 2025, the Faculty of Music will be located at the The Stephen A.
Schwarzman Centre for the Humanities.
This new state-of-the-art building includes a concert hall, lecture spaces, film screening theatre, black box experimental performance space, practice rooms and a multimedia digital TV broadcasting and sound studio.
The world-famous Bate Collection of Musical Instruments , which lends historical instruments to students will also be moving to the new centre, along with the Faculty's gamelan orchestra.
The course is broadly based but allows increasing specialisation and choice as you proceed.
Whether you’re a performer, a composer, a budding scholar of music history, sociology, psychology or education, the Music course offers something for you.
Students graduate as mature and well-rounded musicians with an informed and lively sense of the contemporary study and practice of the subject, and the ways in which music contributes to society more broadly.
'The Oxford music course suits me because it is broad and varied, but also has lots of space to make it my own.
For my final exams I am sitting papers in broad aspects of music history (from English renaissance polyphony to electronic music), analysis, and issues to do with how we study music but I am also writing a dissertation about the music in a primary school near Oxford, essays on Brazilian music, and a report from the term I spent working on a music project with children with autism.
I have friends who are playing the Rite of Spring for piano duet for a chamber music exam, who are singing Schubert Lieder for a solo recital, and who are analysing Bach organ fugues for an analysis portfolio – and those are just the people in my year in my college!'
'From playing for three evensongs a week to being immersed in the sound world of the Bosavi Rainforest people in Papua New Guinea, Oxford has been a fantastic experience so far.
One aspect of Oxford’s music course that first attracted me was the diversity and the choice it gives students, particularly in the final year.
I am currently studying a variety of history topics, ranging from the 13th-century motet to film music, along with some composition and analysis courses.
I want to be a performer and knowing that I can choose to concentrate on this later in the course has helped me to focus my interests throughout the term.'
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Music.
Lecture sizes may vary depending on the options you choose.
Compulsory lectures are the largest and will include the full year group of around 70 students, while the smallest lectures, for specialist options, might include fewer than 10 students.
Seminars will also usually involve 10-12 students.
Most lectures are delivered by Associate Professors and Professors within the University.
Most of these professors are also college subject tutors (although not all college tutors are University lecturers).
Each college’s subject tutor is responsible for giving and coordinating tutorials.
Many tutors are world-leading experts with years of experience in teaching and research.
Some teaching (mostly at tutorial level) may also be delivered by postgraduate students, who are usually studying at doctoral level.
Please note that the Faculty of Music are planning to introduce changes to the curriculum and assessment structure of Years 2 and 3 from 2025-26.
Details will be published as soon as they become available.
Six modules are taken (two chosen from a list of options)
Three written papers and two ‘take-away’ papers for compulsory subjects.
The assessment for the two options will take the form of a written paper, practical examination, recital, portfolio of compositions, essay or take-away paper depending on the option chosen.
Seven modules are taken: two compulsory in your second year, and five from a list of options (with some restrictions on combinations), including one double-weighted project, in your third year.
Please note that the courses listed in this section are illustrative and may change.
Final University examinations
Second year: one written examination and one course submission.
Third year: A combination of take-away papers, coursework, portfolio submissions, recitals and practical tests, depending on the options chosen.
If your school or college does not offer A-level Music, you must have Music Theory Grade 7 or above, plus three A-levels.
We accept Grade 7 from any board (e.g.
ABRSM, Trinity).
If applying with international qualifications and Music is taken as a subject, you must achieve equivalent to an A in A-level as a minimum.
The Faculty accepts BTEC Extended Diploma in Music in place of Music A-level, where a student is not able to take Music A-level at their school.
BTECs in other subjects may be accepted, depending on the subject taken and at the discretion of the individual admitting tutor and their college.
The Faculty of Music will consider other vocational qualifications in Music; however, an accompanying A-Level in an essay subject, or a strong grade in an Extended Project Qualification (EPQ), is strongly recommended.
The Faculty does not require qualifications in performance or Keyboard Skills, and no candidate should be dissuaded from applying if they have not studied a keyboard instrument or performed to a high level.
However, we encourage students to work on developing their keyboard fluency before they come to Oxford, whether this comes in the form of jazz, pop or classical music.
If you are unsure about your qualifications please contact [email protected] .
There is no written test but candidates are required to submit a musical performance video recording of up to 5 minutes on their chosen instrument or voice in advance of their interview.
Candidates should not be concerned with the quality of recording space or equipment as this will not be taken into account.
Many tutors will ask you to study a short piece of music and/or text about music in preparation for your interview; if so, this material will be given to you shortly in advance but typically on the same day as your interview.
There is no typical music student at Oxford, and students can flourish with a wide variety of strengths and interests within the broad field of music.
Tutors will be looking for potential to engage with the course, an ability to think critically about music, and a keen interest in learning more about this subject.
Visit the Music website more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
The varied nature of the course enables students to develop highly desirable skills in areas such as:
All of which makes our graduates an attractive prospect for potential employers.
Teaching, performance and arts administration are among the popular destinations for Music graduates, but others include broadcasting, publishing, law, politics and the Civil Service.
Many students undertake further study in performance, often at conservatoires in the UK and abroad.
An Oxford Music degree opens doors to a wide range of careers both within and outside the arts.
After graduating, Fabienne secured a marketing and public relations internship with the Philharmonia Orchestra.
She then worked for the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra and London Symphony Orchestra before being headhunted for her current role as Head of Communications and Marketing at Intermusica, an industry-leading international classical music management agency.
She says;
‘Our roster includes Marin Alsop, Sir John Eliot Gardiner, Daniil Trifonov, Sir Willard White, James MacMillan, Leonidas Kavakos and many others.
Naturally my music degree has proved an extremely helpful foundation for a career in classical music management but I would say that the most important thing I gained from Oxford was confidence and resilience and being able to meet people from all walks of life.’
Students may choose to have instrumental or voice tuition as part of their course, though please note that performance is not compulsory.
With advice from your tutors, you can choose your own instrumental tutors.
You will need to pay for these lessons yourself, but the money will be refunded by the Music Faculty at the end of term, up to £275.
This usually covers the full cost of tuition.
Students can also apply to take part in a Faculty-funded scheme with the Royal Academy of Music (RAM), which provides 8 hourly lessons and participation in master-classes and performance classes at the RAM.
The Faculty of Music runs dedicated outreach programmes, events and activities aimed at promoting the study of music and supporting talented students from all backgrounds to apply to the course.
The Faculty of Music welcomes applicants from all types of backgrounds and interests, including in terms of musical background.
We are not only interested in those with classical music knowledge.
Previous student specialisms include Hindustani classical music, unaccompanied folk, improvised jazz, pop music and musical theatre.
There is no “typical” Oxford Music student.
UK state school students interested in music can apply to UNIQ , Oxford’s flagship outreach programme for students in their first year of further education.
Anyone interested in studying Music at Oxford is encouraged to explore details of subject-specific opportunities and resources on the Faculty of Music website .
+44 (0) 1865 276125 [email protected] www.music.ox.ac.uk/access
Why not have a look at the faculty's recommended reading list for prospective students.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/philosophy-and-modern-languages:
Required subjects: One or more modern languages (depending on course choice) Recommended subjects: Not applicable Helpful subjects: Not applicable
Admissions tests: MLAT (including Philosophy section) Written Work: None
Interviewed: 84% Successful: 36% Intake: 21 Successful for a different course: 3% Applicant intake for a different course: 2 *3-year average 2022-24
Philosophy and Modern Languages brings together some of the most important approaches to understanding language, literature and ideas.
The study of a modern European language develops analytical and critical abilities as well as highly competent linguistic skills.
Studying the literature written in that language contributes to an understanding of many aspects of European culture.
This enables students to develop attention to:
These skills are all of great value to the study of philosophy.
Studying these two disciplines in parallel has numerous advantages and affords students greater insights into each.
">Video of Philosophy and Modern Languages at Oxford University
The Philosophy Faculty is the largest philosophy department in the UK, and one of the largest in the world.
We admit around 450 undergraduates annually to read the various degrees involving Philosophy.
Many faculty members have a worldwide reputation and our library and other facilities are acknowledged as among the best in the country.
Oxford’s Modern Languages Faculty is also the largest in the country, with a total intake of more than 250 students a year, including those reading joint degrees.
The Taylor Institution is the biggest modern languages research library in the UK.
The Modern Languages Faculty also has an undergraduate lending library, and students are able to take advantage of the well-equipped Language Centre .
For UK students with a shortfall in their finances, the University’s Student Support Fund can also provide additional assistance.
'My one-to-one tutorials gave me the tools and confidence to analyse and question accepted knowledge, perspectives and structures.
These skills have transferred to a variety of roles since graduating, enabling me to challenge and improve my performance and that of others.
The reflex of continuous learning that my degree instilled in me has helped me adapt to different sectors – from oil and gas to international development – and navigate across diverse cultures on the four continents where I’ve worked.'
Samuel
Philosophy
Beginners' Czech, Czech, French, German, Beginners' Modern Greek, Modern Greek, Beginners' Italian, Italian, Beginners' Portuguese, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish
Your work will be divided between one or two tutorials and about six hours of lectures each week, in addition to about two or three hours of classes (first-year logic, language classes throughout the course).
The rest of your week will be spent in independent study to prepare essays for tutorials and improve your command of your language.
Seminar and language class sizes may vary depending on the options you choose or the language you are studying, but there would usually be no more than 20 students and would often be much smaller.
First University examinations: six written papers (two in Philosophy, four in Modern Languages)
Final University examinations: nine written papers (with a minimum of three in Philosophy and four in Modern Languages; one Philosophy paper may be replaced by a thesis; some Modern Languages papers may be replaced by a thesis or a portfolio of essays); Modern Languages oral examination
Candidates would usually be expected to have the language to A-level, Advanced Higher, Higher Level in the IB or another academic equivalent unless applying for a beginner's course.
Candidates may apply to study Philosophy with one of these languages from scratch:
Please note there are different course codes for these languages, depending on whether you are applying with an A-level or equivalent in the relevant language, or if you are applying for a beginners’ course.
Candidates are not required to have any experience of studying Philosophy though some background reading is highly recommended.
All candidates must take the Modern Languages Admissions Tests (MLAT) as part of their application.
All candidates will take the Philosophy section of the MLAT, and the section for their chosen language (if applying to study the language post-A-level or equivalent).
At interview, tutors will be looking for interest in the proposed fields of study, relevant linguistic ability, a critical and analytical response to questions and/or texts and the ability to defend a viewpoint by reasoned argument.
Visit the Philosophy website and the Modern Languages website for further information about the selection criteria for this course.
Employers in the UK and abroad value Philosophy and Modern Languages graduates because they are competent in at least one language, have acquired first-hand experience of other cultures, and possess a range of transferable skills including:
Philosophy and Modern Languages graduates enter careers including:
Click in each of the following course options to view further subject specific information and the Unistats data provided by Discover Uni for each subject option.
Philosophy and Beginners' Czech
VR5R
Philosophy and Czech
VR57
Philosophy and Beginners' German
Philosophy and French
VR51
Philosophy and German
VR52
Philosophy and Beginners' Modern Greek
VR59
Philosophy and Modern Greek
VQ57
Philosophy and Beginners' Italian
RV35
Philosophy and Italian
VR53
Philosophy and Beginners' Portuguese
VR5M
Philosophy and Portuguese
VR55
Philosophy and Russian
VRM7
Philosophy and Spanish
VR54
Language option
Beginners' Czech
Beginners' German
Beginners' Modern Greek
Beginners' Italian
Beginners' Portuguese
Students interested in this course might also like to consider other Language courses, or Philosophy and Linguistics (part of PPL).

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/philosophy-politics-and-economics:
UCAS code: L0v0 Entrance requirements: AAA Course duration: 3 years (BA)
Required subjects: Not applicable Recommended subjects: Maths Helpful subjects: History
Admissions tests: TSA Written Work: None
Interviewed: 38% Successful: 12% Intake: 229 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 288564 Email: [email protected]
Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE) arose from the belief that the advanced study of all three subjects would transform students’ intellectual lives, to great social benefit.
This conviction remains as firm today as it was then.
As the world has evolved, so has PPE.
The course brings together some of the most important approaches to understanding the world around us, developing skills useful for a wide range of careers and activities.
PPE is a highly flexible degree which allows you to shape your own path through it.
You may choose to specialise in two branches at the end of the first year, or continue with all three.
You can also explore a wide variety of disciplines under the overarching headings of Philosophy, Politics and Economics.
For example, you can specialise in Sociology or International Relations by choosing the relevant Politics options.
The three subjects each make a distinctively valuable contribution to the degree.
Studying philosophy develops analytical, critical, and logical rigour – a highly transferable skill – through discussion of deep, puzzling questions such as 'what can we (really) know?' and 'why be moral?' that are fascinating in their own right.
In turn, the study of politics provides a thorough understanding of the impact of political institutions on modern societies.
It helps you to evaluate the choices that political systems must regularly make, to explain the processes that maintain or change those systems, and to examine the concepts and values used in political analysis.
Economics is the study of how consumers, firms and government make decisions that collectively determine how resources are allocated.
An appreciation of economics has become increasingly necessary to make sense of governmental policy-making, the conduct of businesses and the enormous economic transformations throughout the world.
All three branches of PPE at Oxford have an international reputation, supported by more than 200 renowned scholars.
If you’re interested in studying PPE but your personal or educational circumstances have meant you are unlikely to achieve the grades typically required to make a competitive application for direct entry to PPE, then choosing to apply for PPE with a Foundation Year might be right for you.
'PPE this year has been a thoroughly enjoyable course.
The three branches are perfect for a generalist like myself, and jumping from an economics problem set to a politics essay and then a logic exercise means you'll certainly never get bored.
You'll have the opportunity to explore the perennial questions, of what's right and wrong, and how we ought to govern.
You come to your own conclusions, and then pit your ideas against incredibly bright peers and expert tutors.
I've had a great time so far.'
Ren Ping
'I enjoy PPE because it allows me to develop distinct lenses through which to engage with foundational questions about things that are entrenched in our common-sense understanding of the world.
Why should I be moral?
How do I know anything?
How important is free speech?
What happens if the banks close tomorrow?
What does it mean to be efficient?
Each discipline gives you different tools to examine the world as it is, and to think about how it should be.
For example, Economics will allow you to quantify and model total welfare, whilst Philosophy will require you to question how welfare is defined in the first place and whether it can be aggregated at all.
These diverse ways of knowing will sometimes reinforce and sometimes challenge each other, and that process is genuinely exciting.'
Rhea
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for PPE.
Philosophy, Politics and Economics
Your weekly timetable will usually include up to eight lectures and two tutorials and/or classes, supplemented by private study, which will be mainly spent preparing essays or problem sets for tutorials and classes.
Tutorials typically involve two to four students and a tutor.
Teaching in all three PPE subjects is normally done in tutorials rather than classes.
Where a class does form part of the teaching for a paper, it will typically include around six to ten students, although one computer-based training course in Politics may have up to 24 students in it.
Some teaching may also be delivered by postgraduate students, typically doctoral students who are also expert in the relevant field.
Students choose to continue with all three branches ( tripartite ) or concentrate on any two ( bipartite ), taking compulsory courses in the chosen branches along with optional courses:
More information about each course is in the handbook on the course website .
Final University examinations: eight papers, typically assessed by written examination, but in some cases by coursework.
One of these eight papers may be a thesis/supervised dissertation.
* Although a background in Mathematics is not an essential requirement for admission, it is recommended.
PPE applicants should have sufficient interest in, and aptitude for, mathematics to be comfortable articulating ideas in an equation as well as in a diagram or a written statement.
Mathematics is a particular advantage for the Economics component of the course, as well as for the first year logic course in philosophy, and for the first year statistics course in politics.
A large majority of successful applicants are studying Maths to A-level, or another equivalent.
You may like to consider taking Maths to AS-level, or an equivalent qualification such as IB Standard Level, even if you do not pursue it further.
However, we do understand that these qualifications may not be available to all students.
Extra tuition will be available to on course students who have not studied Maths A-Level who require any assistance.
You can view the PPE admissions statistics for information on the success rates for applicants applying with different A-level subjects.
If your personal or educational circumstances have meant you are unlikely to achieve the grades required to make a competitive application for direct entry to PPE, but you still have a strong interest in the subject, then applying for PPE with a Foundation Year might be right for you.
All candidates must take the Thinking Skills Assessment (TSA) as part of the application.
Admissions tutors will want to find out if you can think clearly and analytically.
They are less concerned with what you know than with how you think and use your knowledge.
They will seek evidence of interest in all three subjects.
Visit the PPE website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
Many PPE graduates go on to further academic study.
The careers most commonly chosen by PPE graduates are in:
Ella was managing director of Abel & Cole, the organic food retailer.
'I first saw a video of the Amazon rainforest burning when I was at school in the early 1990s.
From that moment, I urgently wanted to protect the natural world.
I didn’t know how, though.
PPE was invaluable in helping me understand how economic and political systems work, and how they drive such damage to nature.
PPE also gave me confidence to evaluate solutions to these problems, and to articulate my responses.
The degree gave me credibility when I was starting out, and it helped me navigate my way to a constructive career.
I feel proud of what I achieved at Abel & Cole.
I’m sorry to say that the Amazon is still burning, though, and that there is a great deal more work to be done.'
Rayan went on to pupillage at a leading barristers’ chambers in London.
'PPE encouraged me, more than anything else, to think critically about the social world and our place in it.
It taught me how to test and challenge arguments and disentangle their constituent parts.
That experience has been crucial to my pursuing a career as a barrister.
First, because the philosophical skills that I acquired have proven invaluable in thinking about, developing, and challenging legal arguments in practice.
And second, because it's helped me to continuously reflect upon the social impact of the law and its relationship with political power.'
You might like to read some of the following sources:
Thomas Nagel’s What Does it all Mean?
and Jennifer Nagel’s Knowledge: A Very Short Introduction are useful introductions to Philosophy.
Jonathan Wolff’s An Introduction to Political Philosophy , the Palgrave Macmillan series Developments in British [French, German, East European, etc.] Politics and Adrian Leftwich’s What is Politics?
are good introductory texts for Politics.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/philosophy-and-theology:
UCAS code: VV56 Entrance requirements: AAA Course duration: 3 years (BA)
Required subjects: Not applicable Recommended subjects: Not applicable Helpful subjects: A subject involving essay writing
Admissions tests: PhilAT Written Work: One piece
Interviewed: 41% Successful: 17% Intake: 26 Successful for a different course: 4% Applicant intake for a different course: 6 *3-year average 2022-24
Philosophy and Theology brings together some of the most important approaches to understanding and assessing the intellectual claims of religion.
The study of Philosophy develops analytical rigour and the ability to criticise and reason logically.
It allows you to apply these skills to many contemporary and historical schools of thought and individual thinkers.
You will also apply these skills to questions ranging from how we acquire knowledge and form moral judgements to central questions in the philosophy of religion, including the existence and nature of God and the relevance of religion to human life.
The study of Theology provides an understanding of the intellectual underpinning of religious traditions and of the social and cultural contexts for religious belief and practice.
It brings together a wide range of skills and disciplines, historical, textual, linguistic, sociological, literary-critical and philosophical.
Central to this degree is a recognition that parallel study of these related disciplines leads to a deeper understanding of each.
The Philosophy Faculty is the largest in the UK and one of the largest in the world.
Many faculty members have a worldwide reputation, and its library and other facilities are acknowledged as among the best in the country.
The Faculty of Theology and Religion includes more than 100 academics, including experts in the ancient languages and literature of the world’s religions, historians and systematic theologians.
The Faculty’s reputation and excellent library facilities attract scholars from all over the world.
If you’re interested in studying Philosophy and Theology but your personal or educational circumstances have meant you are unlikely to achieve the grades typically required for Oxford courses, then applying for a Foundation Year might be right for you.
'The course itself exceeded my expectations, not only in the way it was taught, but in the extraordinarily wide range of topics that it was possible to study.
It is a course that allows the study of Byzantine church history alongside the philosophical problems of the mind and of language, to name just a few diverse areas.
This has really allowed me to follow what I found I was genuinely interested in.
The freedom the course gives me to follow my passions in the subject is a massive boost.'
Tom
'Choosing to read Philosophy and Theology was a controversial choice in my heavily science-based school - many of my friends were confused why I was taking what they believed to be an ‘old-fashioned’ degree however, they could not have been more wrong.
My experience of joint honours has been one of a steady introduction to logical, creative thinking with an overarching emphasis on empathy for those of all different faiths and creeds.
I sincerely believe it is one of the most pertinent degrees given current affairs because most importantly of all: it is about how to think.'
Megan
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Philosophy and Theology.
Your weekly timetable will be divided between one or two tutorials, which may take place at your college or at the college of a specialist tutor.
A large part of your week will be spent in independent study to prepare for tutorials.
Each week you will also attend up to six lectures, or small classes for some course options.
Tutorials usually involve two students and a tutor.
Class sizes may vary depending on the options you choose, but there would usually be no more than around 10 students.
Some teaching may also be delivered by advanced postgraduate students.
Four papers are taken:
First University examinations: four papers each assessed by written examination
Students take eight papers, either five in Philosophy and three in Theology, or five in Theology and three in Philosophy, or four in each subject.
A thesis in either subject may be offered as one of these.
All students study:
Further papers may be chosen from a wide range of options in Philosophy.
Theology papers are chosen from a variety of subject areas offered by the Faculty of Theology and Religion, including:
More information about current options is available on the Faculty of Philosophy website and Faculty of Theology and Religion website .
Final University examinations: eight papers (assessed either by written examination or by submitted coursework, depending upon the option), or seven papers plus a thesis
If your personal or educational circumstances have meant you are unlikely to achieve the grades listed above for undergraduate study, but you still have a strong interest in the subject, then applying for Philosophy and Theology with a Foundation Year might be right for you.
Visit the Foundation Year course page for more details of academic requirements and eligibility.
All candidates must take the Philosophy Test (PhilAT) as part of their application.
One piece written in English, which you have composed as part of a current or recent course of study, not exceeding 2,000 words in length (and shorter is fine).
It should demonstrate your ability to:
Your work may be on any subject and not necessarily Philosophy, Theology or Religion.
There is no restriction as to the kind of work you may submit, providing it is your own work.
You might choose to submit, for example, a mock A Level essay completed under examination conditions or a homework essay from your IB course.
You should submit the work that you think best demonstrates the qualities outlined above.
It is not usually necessary to write something especially for your application and if you have composed a suitable piece of work as part of a recent or ongoing course of study, you should submit it.
However, if you do not have any recent, suitable written work available, tutors are pleased to accept a piece that has been written for submission.
Please read the further guidance available in the answers to FAQs on the Theology and Religion Faculty’s website .
If you have any questions, please contact the college handling your application, or email the Faculty of Theology and Religion at [email protected] .
Tutors consider your whole application very carefully.
They look for evidence of a consistently excellent academic record, for example in GCSE or other examination results.
Your submitted piece of work should demonstrate your ability to:
Your UCAS personal statement should focus on your academic reasons for wishing to study Philosophy and Theology.
References should comment primarily on academic performance.
In interviews, tutors look for interest in the proposed fields of study, a critical and analytical approach to abstract questions and the ability to defend a viewpoint by reasoned argument.
You may be asked to consider a religious, philosophical or ethical question or to study a brief text.
Whatever the subject of discussion, interviewers are interested in how you think and how you approach questions.
Students are not expected to have prior subject knowledge.
Visit the Philosophy website and the Theology and Religion website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
Philosophy and Theology graduates have secured wide-ranging positions as authors, writers, newspaper and periodical editors, academics and teachers.
Recent graduates include a barrister, a member of a political think tank, a student at the Royal Academy of Music and a marketing executive for a philanthropy adviser.
Others have entered careers such as commerce, banking, financial services and communications.
Visit the Theology and Religion Faculty website for more information about careers .
John, now a KC says:
‘I could not recommend Philosophy and Theology at Oxford more highly.
It was such a wide-ranging "Liberal Arts" type degree with so many subject options.
On a practical level theology encourages deep thought and creative thinking whilst my philosophical tutors taught me to question and doubt every claim.
That was an ideal preparation for the Bar.’
The Faculty of Theology and Religion at Oxford is the top ranked Theology, Divinity and Religious Studies Department in the UK and Europe and second in the world in the 2024 QS World University rankings, by subject.
For an introduction to philosophy have a look at:

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/physics:
UCAS code: F303 Entrance requirements: A*AA (with the A* in Physics, Maths or Further Maths) Course duration: 4 years (MPhys); 3 years (BA)
Required subjects: Physics and Maths Recommended subjects: Maths Mechanics modules Helpful subjects: Further Maths
Admissions tests: PAT Written Work: None
Interviewed: 31% Successful: 12% Intake: 179 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 272200 Email: [email protected]
Physics is concerned with the study of the universe from the smallest to the largest scale: it is about unravelling its complexities to discover the way it is and how it works.
Discoveries in physics have formed the foundation of countless technological advances and play an important role in many scientific areas.
Many techniques used in medical imaging, nanotechnology and quantum computing are derived from physics instrumentation.
Even the World Wide Web was a spin-off from the information processing and communications requirements of high-energy particle physics.
The contributions of physics to solving global problems such as energy production, environmental protection, global warming and public health are essential and have an enormous impact on our society.
">Video of Physics at Oxford University
Oxford has one of the largest university physics departments in the UK, with an outstanding and very diverse research programme in six sub-departments:
Physics at Oxford is challenging and mathematical with a strong emphasis on fundamental concepts such as optics and relativity.
There are two undergraduate courses, an MPhys and the BA.
All applicants apply for the four-year MPhys in the first instance.
The fourth-year MPhys option courses bring you to the threshold of current research, and can lead to subject specialism.
The department is equipped with state-of-the-art lecture facilities and teaching laboratories.
Tutorials give students direct and regular access to physicists actively involved in research and provide an opportunity to explore scientific ideas with experts in the field.
In the third year, all students carry out a short project in the teaching laboratories.
Students on both the BA and MPhys may have the opportunity to do industry projects investigating a real physics problem.
There is further flexibility to undertake computational and experimental projects.
A wide choice of fourth-year MPhys projects is available across all six physics sub-departments.
'I’ve always wanted to study physics.
I saw Apollo 13 when I was about 13 years old and there’s this bit where the scientists are trying to fit a square peg into a round hole – this made me want to work for NASA!
But the more physics I study, the more I realise that there’s so much awesome stuff apart from astrophysics; I’ve ended up focusing on condensed matter which gets me thinking about the applications of physics in the real world.
Learning the theoretical stuff is all very well, but I like being able to get useful things out of it.
I am president of the Oxford University Physics Society.
One of the main things we do is get famous physicists in to speak to us.
This can help students to remember the exciting, real-world cool stuff that got them into physics in the first place, even when they’re struggling through reams of maths problem sheets.'
Karla-Luise
'The tutorial system is one of the greatest things about studying at Oxford.
Having to present your proofs and answers to world-leading mathematicians and academics on a twice-weekly basis can seem daunting, but it accelerates your understanding of difficult concepts and ideas, and equips you with the ability to deal with any other problems in a rigorous and precise way.
The pace of the course is very rapid and the amount of material that is covered is vast.
Very quickly, you will start to learn how to digest large volumes of information, understand it, and apply it to solving problems effectively.
The ability to analyse situations critically, understand abstract problems and patterns, and apply a high level of computational knowledge are skills that are vital across all sectors and industries, both public and private, and are highly valued by employers.'
Sara
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Physics.
In the first year your time will be equally divided between mathematics and physics, with about ten lectures and two tutorials a week, plus one day a week working on experimental physics in the practical laboratories.
In the second and third years the core and mainstream physics topics are covered in tutorials and small group classes.
Practical work is also done during the year.
In the fourth year you will take two major options and the MPhys project.
Tutorials are usually given in colleges with 2-4 students and a tutor.
Fourth year class sizes may vary depending on the options you choose.
Short options, for example:
First University examinations: four written papers; short option paper; satisfactory laboratory work
Final University examinations, Part A (BA and MPhys): three written papers; short option paper; laboratory work; individual presentation
Final University examinations, Part B: MPhys: Part A plus up to five written papers, short option paper, mini project, laboratory work; BA: Part A plus up to four written papers, short option paper, mini project, laboratory work, project report, optional industrial project
Project and two option courses:
Final University examinations, Part C (MPhys): project report; two major option papers
Exams are taken in June at the end of each year of the courses.
Most written papers are of 2.5 or 3 hours duration.
Short options are shared across Years 1–3 and are examined by a 1.5 hour paper; the titles shown are illustrative and may change from year to year of the course.
More information about current options is available on the Physics website.
The Physics and Mathematics Departments jointly offer an integrated master’s level course in Mathematical and Theoretical Physics.
Physics students are able to apply for transfer to a fourth year studying entirely mathematical and theoretical physics, completing their degree with an MMathPhys.
Read more about the MMathPhys .
Tutors are looking for enthusiastic and highly-motivated students with the ability to apply basic principles to unfamiliar situations.
The language of physics is mathematics and formulating physical theories requires new mathematical structures.
Therefore, the tutors are also looking for a good level of mathematical competence and the ability to formulate a problem in mathematical terms and then extract the physical consequences from the solution.
Visit the Physics website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
More than 40% of Physics graduates go on to study for a higher degree, leading to careers in:
Many others enter professions unrelated to Physics, such as finance and business, where the analytical and problem-solving skills they have developed are highly sought-after.
Visit the Physics Department's website to get the inside view from current Physics students.
Why not have a look at the University's science blog to read about our latest research?
You might also like to look at the Department of Physics' project, Galaxy Zoo which is part of the Zooniverse community of projects, and which allows members of the public to contribute to astrophysics research.
The physics.org website contains lots of interesting resources, while scientific organisations such as CERN and NASA publish a lot of good material online, like the Astronomy Picture of the Day website .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/physics-and-philosophy:
UCAS code: VF53 Entrance requirements: A*AA (with the A* in Physics, Maths or Further Maths).
Course duration: 4 years (MPhysPhil); 3 years (BA)
Interviewed: 23% Successful: 8% Intake: 13 *3-year average 2022-24
This course combines the most rigorous and fundamental subjects in the sciences and the humanities.
Physics is concerned with unravelling the complexities of the universe from the smallest to the largest scale.
Philosophy deals with foundational questions of the most general kind: what there is, what we know and how we came to know it, and how we ought to act and structure our lives.
Central to both subjects is the development and application of clear and precise thinking to foundational problems, the questioning of received wisdom and the critical articulation of ideas which aim for an understanding of how things are, in the broadest possible terms.
">Video of Physics and Philosophy at Oxford University
Physics and Philosophy are historically intertwined and each continues to contribute to developments in the other.
Philosophy played a crucial role in the two revolutions of 20th-century physics – namely, relativity and quantum mechanics.
It continues to contribute both to foundational research in theoretical physics and to the articulation and critique of scientific method.
Conversely, discoveries in physics provide profound implications for philosophical inquiry, such as the nature of space and time and the behaviour of matter at the quantum realm.
Students on this course can expect to investigate not only central developments in both subjects, but also this interplay.
Oxford has one of the largest physics departments in the UK, with over 100 academics leading research that spans the breadth of physics.
This expertise ensures the curriculum is updated in the light of developments in research.
The Philosophy Faculty is the largest in the UK, with more than 70 full-time members; it admits around 450 undergraduates annually to read the various degrees involving Philosophy.
The Oxford research group in Philosophy of Physics is the largest in the world.
It has interests ranging from classical space-time theories and foundations of classical statistical mechanics, to quantum mechanics, quantum field theory and quantum gravity.
Philosophy of Physics runs through the first three years of the course.
In the first year students delve into 18th-century investigations into matter and motion.
In Years 2 and 3 they investigate the philosophical foundations of relativity and quantum mechanics.
The fourth-year MPhysPhil options bring you to the threshold of current research.
In this year students may specialise in either Physics or Philosophy, or continue with a combination, including advanced study in the Philosophy of Physics.
Alternatively, students may complete the course in three years, leaving with a BA.
'Philosophy has an effect on how you view physics; how we look at where the theories came from.
For example, if we're asking, "does time exist?" as a physicist you have some idea of what time is, and it brings a different attitude to the whole question.'
James
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Physics and Philosophy.
Your work will be divided between independent study, tutorials, two or three classes and about ten lectures each week.
Independent study (reading for and writing essays, completing problem sets) will take up the majority of your working time.
Tutorials typically take the form of 2-4 students discussing themes arising from essays or problem sets with a tutor in the students’ college.
Lectures and classes are typically held in either the Department of Physics or Faculty of Philosophy.
There would usually be no more than around 10 students though classes for some of the more popular papers may be up to 20 students.
There are two Physics and Philosophy degrees, the three-year BA and the four-year MPhysPhil.
First University examinations: three written papers in Physics; two written papers in Philosophy
Final University examinations, Part A: three papers in Physics; satisfactory lab work
Core topics:
Final University examinations, Part B: three or four written papers in Philosophy; two or four subjects in Physics
Three units chosen in any combination from the lists for Physics and Philosophy, including an advanced philosophy of physics option.
Final University examinations, Part C: a mix of three written papers and essays, or thesis (in Philosophy), or project (in Physics)
More information about current options is available on the Physics website and Philosophy website .
The Physics and Mathematics Departments jointly offer an integrated masters level course in Mathematical and Theoretical Physics.
Physics and Philosophy students are able to apply for transfer to a fourth year studying entirely mathematical and theoretical physics, completing their degree with an MMathPhys.
The course offers research-level training in: Particle physics, Condensed matter physics, Astrophysics, Plasma physics and Continuous media.
Any other equivalent qualification
Anyone who has an interest in general questions about the nature of science, mathematics, mind, knowledge or truth has an interest in philosophy.
No more than that is needed – you are not disadvantaged if you have not studied Philosophy before.
Philosophy tutors will be looking for a critical and analytical approach to abstract questions and an ability to defend a point of view by reasoned argument.
The Physics tutors will ask you the same style of questions about mathematics and physics as they ask Physics applicants, to determine your mathematical and problem-solving ability and potential for further study.
Visit the Physics website and the Philosophy website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
Graduates in Physics and Philosophy offer an unusual and valuable combination of skills to employers in commerce and industry.
Almost 40% go on to study for a higher degree; some will enter science professions such as research and development, or technical roles in industry; many others enter professions unrelated to the course, such as the public sector, including the Civil and Diplomatic Services.
If your application for Physics and Philosophy is unsuccessful you will be considered for Physics.
If you do not want to be considered for Physics please make this clear at interview.
The physics.org website also contains lots of interesting resources.
For an introduction to philosophy of physics, David Wallace’s Philosophy of Physics: A Very Short Introduction is recommended.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/psychology-experimental:
UCAS code: C830 Entrance requirements: A*AA Course duration: 4 years (MSci in Experimental Psychology); 3 years (BA).
Required subjects: Not applicable Recommended subjects: One or more science subjects (including Psychology) or Maths Helpful subjects: Not applicable
Interviewed: 36% Successful: 13% Intake: 50 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 271353 Email: [email protected]
Psychology has been defined as the science of mental life and its scope includes a wide variety of issues.
It addresses such questions as: how do we perceive and understand the world around us?
How do children acquire language?
What predisposes two people to get on with each other?
What causes schizophrenia?
Psychology at Oxford is a scientific discipline, involving the rigorous formulation and testing of ideas.
It works through experiments and systematic observation rather than introspection.
The Oxford Experimental Psychology Department is widely regarded as one of the leading psychology departments in the UK.
The department’s size and its commitment to excellence in teaching and research means there are typically four or five research seminars each week, in addition to undergraduate lectures and classes.
At present, there are particularly strong research groups in the fields of human cognitive processes, neuroscience, language, developmental psychology, social psychology and psychological disorders.
Alternatively, they can decide to remain for an optional fourth year composed of a research-intensive, clinically-focused or translation-focused extended project.
Students who complete the fourth year will graduate with a Master’s degree in Experimental Psychology.
A wide choice of research projects is available to students in their third and fourth years, including experimental, clinical or translational projects involving collaborations with other departments and outside the University.
Experimental Psychology has excellent facilities and very close links with neuroscience, including neurophysiology and neurology, as well as the Philosophy and Linguistics Departments.
Students benefit from the department being one of Britain’s most active centres for psychological research, with an outstanding international reputation.
'I chose the course here because it is strongly rooted in experimental methods and you’re given the chance to talk to the people who are at the top of their field and are involved in current research which is changing the face of psychology.
I still find it amazing that you’ll learn about a fascinating experiment in lectures and then realise that the person giving your tutorials or lectures headed that research team!
I am also able to take part in a range of really interesting experiments which widen my knowledge of the field as a whole and of how research is carried out.
Every so often, some of the departmental researchers are on the lookout for a research assistant which is an amazing experience if you’re interested in staying in psychology after the degree.
I’m quite keen on doing this as I would love to work in clinical psychology or research, so being able to work alongside some of the leading people in the field is absolutely ideal preparation.'
Katrina
'I had a tutorial in second year on deciphering the neural basis of semantic knowledge.
After an hour, the tutor paused and asked us if we wished to continue, since the discussion was so invigorating and we were all passionately debating the subject.
My tutorial partner and I gladly agreed to continue the tutorial for longer.
A few hours later I cycled back to college with my head full of curiosity and inspiration, and spent the evening in the library researching more!
It was wonderful, and exemplary of how the tutorial system can inspire and prompt many new ideas between professors and students.
During my undergraduate degree, we designed and completed our own research project, working with scientists at the forefront of the field.
I knew then that I was hooked on the pursuit of knowledge through scientific enquiry and experimentation.
I am now studying for a DPhil, here at Oxford, working to understand the neural basis of human parenting.'
Eloise
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Psychology.
Tutorials usually involve two to four students and a tutor.
Class sizes for laboratory classes may vary depending on the options you choose.
Core lab classes which are attended by most students will usually be in groups of 35-40 students.
Multiple demonstrators will usually attend to assist the staff who are leading these classes.
There are usually no more than around 20 students for final-year specialist options.
Most tutorials, classes, and lectures are delivered by staff who are experts in the subject they tutor.
The majority of staff are world-leading experts with years of experience in teaching and research.
Some teaching may also be delivered by postgraduate students who are usually studying at doctoral level, and are specialists in those topics.
Terms 1-3 (Year 1)
First University examinations: papers in each of the three introductory courses taken, one of which is Probability theory and statistics
Students carry out practical work relevant to Psychology and career development skills:
In terms 10 and 11, students receive skills based training relevant to their extended project.
Over terms 10-12, students work on their extended project and on advanced research evaluation by writing an independent current opinion review.
Students also submit their current opinion review.
Available options will reflect the department’s current research which means they may change each year.
The options available will cover the core subjects listed above.
It is highly recommended for candidates to have studied one or more science subjects (which can include Psychology) or Mathematics to A-level, Advanced Higher, Higher Level in the IB or another equivalent.
GCSEs: Candidates are recommended to have an A/7 or above in GCSE Mathematics (where GCSEs are taken).
In addition to a very good academic record, tutors are keen to see whether you appreciate the scope of scientific psychology.
They will also want to check whether you can evaluate evidence, are able to consider issues from different perspectives, have a capacity for logical and creative thinking, appreciate the importance of empirical evidence in supporting arguments, and could cope with the demands of the course.
Visit the Experimental Psychology website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
Experimental Psychology graduates enter a wide range of careers including:
Both the BA in Experimental Psychology (EP) and the MSci in EP degrees are accredited by the British Psychological Society for the Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership, provided you achieve the minimum standard of second class honours as well as pass the experimental project element in the third or fourth year of study.
During her time as a client consultant at Nunwood, Experimental Psychology graduate, Rachel said:
‘Since graduating I have worked for two large market research companies specialising in brands and advertising research.
My degree helped me to develop my analytical skills as well as gaining project management experience which have been invaluable in my chosen career path.’
Whilst working as a Graduate Research Assistant at Oxford’s Department of Experimental Psychology, Lauren said:
‘Studying EP gave me the opportunity to conduct my own research project from its inception, from recruiting participants, to collecting and analysing data, and writing it up in a report.
These skills have been invaluable to me in my job as a research assistant, as it involves co-ordinating a large number of participants taking part in a randomised control trial, and handling large amounts of data.’
The Department of Experimental Psychology runs dedicated outreach programmes, events and activities aimed at promoting psychology and supporting talented students from all backgrounds to apply to the course.
As well as running our regular department Open Days in June and September, our staff and students regularly contribute to school visits, local and national science exhibitions, and public science events.
UK state school students interested in psychology can apply to UNIQ , Oxford’s flagship outreach programme for students in their first year of further education.
Anyone interested in studying psychology at Oxford is encouraged to explore details of subject-specific opportunities and resources on the Department of Experimental Psychology website.
+44 (0) 1865 271353 [email protected] www.psy.ox.ac.uk/study/undergrad
Oxford Psychology, in combination with Psychiatry and Neuroscience, achieved outstanding results in the most recent (2021) Research Excellence Framework .
95% of our research was classified as world-leading or internationally excellent in terms of its originality, significance and rigour.
We also scored 100% for the quality of our research and training environment.
Why not have a look at the PPL reading list for prospective students?
Accredited

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/psychology-philosophy-and-linguistics:
UCAS code: See course combinations Entrance requirements: A*AA Course duration: 4 years (MSci) - CV85 and CQ81 3 years (BA) - VQ51
Required subjects: Not applicable Recommended subjects: For Psychology: one or more sciences (including Psychology) or Maths.
Helpful subjects: For Linguistics: English Language, Maths, a science or language.
Interviewed: 38% Successful: 14% Intake: 38 *3-year average 2022-24
Psychology, Philosophy and Linguistics (PPL) are closely interrelated disciplines, so studying a combination of them allows students to explore different aspects of each subject, resulting in a very varied and dynamic course.
Psychology addresses such questions as: how do we perceive and understand the world around us?
Philosophy is concerned with a wide range of questions including ethics, knowledge, and the nature of mind.
Linguistics is the study of language in all its aspects, including the structure of languages, meaning (semantics), pronunciation, and how people understand, mentally represent and generate language.
Data science and coding play an important role in how we train students.
At present, there are particularly strong groups in the fields of human cognitive processes, neuroscience, language, developmental, social psychology and psychological disorders.
The Oxford Philosophy Faculty is one of the largest Philosophy departments in the world, and regularly tops international rankings.
Philosophers at Oxford have active interests in the philosophy of language and of logic, philosophy of mind, and the philosophy of science, and maintain close links with those working in neuroscience and psychology.
The Faculty of Linguistics, Philology, and Phonetics brings together scholars working in:
Unlike other subjects in the humanities, it includes two scientific research laboratories – the Language and Brain Laboratory and the Phonetics Laboratory.
Students taking Psychology as one of their subjects can elect to graduate after three years with a BA degree.
Alternatively, they can decide to remain for an optional fourth year composed of a research-intensive, clinically-focused or translation-focused extended project in Experimental Psychology and allied disciplines.
Students who complete the fourth year will graduate with a Master’s degree in PPL.
'It's really flexible in that you get to choose which papers you want to take and the split you want between psychology and philosophy.
Sometimes, there is a cool crossover between a particular topic, allowing you to look at it from two completely different angles and disciplines.
The 3rd year options for psychology are really varied and specialised, taught by a leading researcher in the area.
You get to learn from top experts in the field, which is such a privilege.'
Lilian
'PPL is a great course where you really have the chance to take control of your learning and explore whatever interests you in a huge range of subjects from Philosophy, Linguistics and Psychology.
You can explore how these three subjects intersect with each other in surprising ways, or you could also get a taste of many different interesting aspects of all three.
What I like about PPL is that you aren't trapped in and restricted to just one faculty, you get to pursue whatever interests you in a range of different subjects!'
Discover Uni provides applicants with Unistats statistics about undergraduate life at Oxford.
Please select 'see course data' on the following course option to view the full Unistats data for Psychology, Philosophy and Linguistics.
Tutorials usually involve 2–4 students and a tutor.
Psychology Core lab classes which are attended by most students will usually be in groups of 35–40 students.
There are usually no more than around 20 students for final-year Psychology specialist options.
Lectures are normally attended by 30–50 students.
First University examinations: four to six written papers, depending on the specific combination of courses taken.
For those wishing to study Psychology in Year 2 and beyond students must take the Probability theory and statistics paper.
After the third term, students can continue to follow a bipartite degree (Psychology and Philosophy, Psychology and Linguistics, or Philosophy and Linguistics) or, subject to their college’s approval, a tripartite degree (Psychology, Philosophy and Linguistics).
Students choosing Psychology will study a choice of core subjects in Terms 4–6, plus a course in Experimental design and methods, and associated practical classes and data science training.
These will be followed by one or two advanced Psychology options and a practical training portfolio in Terms 7–9.
They will also engage in transferrable skills training.
Students choosing Philosophy take up to five courses in Philosophy from a wide range including Philosophy of mind and Philosophy of cognitive science.
Students choosing Linguistics take from three to five courses in Linguistics.
Students opting for a bipartite degree may take a single paper in the third subject.
Students who are exceptionally permitted to take the tripartite degree must take at least two courses in each of the three subjects of Psychology, Philosophy and Linguistics.
Available options will reflect the department’s current research which means they may change each year.
The options available include the core subjects listed in this section.
Final University examinations: eight papers; two practical portfolios (for Psychology); a research project or thesis may also be taken (depending upon the combination of courses).
Students choosing Psychology take the equivalent of two written papers in Psychology in the second year based on the core subject areas (view Experimental Psychology course page ).
Please be aware that Year 4 is only available for Psychology.
Over terms 10–12, students work on their extended project in Psychology and on advanced research evaluation by writing an independent current opinion review.
Students submit an extended project report.
Candidates are recommended to have an A/7 or above in GCSE Mathematics (where GCSEs are taken).
Candidates applying for course combinations including Linguistics are no longer required to sit the Linguistics section of the MLAT.
In addition to a very good academic record, tutors are keen to see whether you appreciate the scope of the two subjects which you have chosen to apply for.
They will also want to check whether you can evaluate evidence and are able to consider issues from different perspectives.
It’s important also to have a capacity for logical and creative thinking, appreciate the importance of empirical evidence in supporting arguments, and have an ability to cope with the demands of the course.
Visit the Psychology website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
Psychology, Philosophy and Linguistics graduates can enter a wide range of careers including:
If Psychology constitutes at least 50% of your course, and covers the BPS curriculum, and provided you achieve the minimum standard of second class honour as well as pass the experimental project element in the third or fourth year of study, your BA or MSci degree is accredited as conferring eligibility for the Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership of the British Psychological Society.
This is normally the first step towards becoming a Chartered Psychologist.
The Faculty of Philosophy , Department of Experimental Psychology and Faculty of Linguistics, Philology and Phonetics run dedicated outreach programmes, events and activities aimed at promoting their subjects and supporting talented students from all backgrounds to apply to the course.
UK state school students interested in PPL subjects can apply to UNIQ , Oxford’s flagship outreach programme for students in their first year of further education.
Anyone interested in studying PPL at Oxford is encouraged to explore details of subject-specific opportunities and resources on the faculty and department websites.
+44 (0) 1865 278206 [email protected] w ww.ling-phil.ox.ac.uk
Psychology and Philosophy
Psychology and Linguistics
Philosophy and Linguistics
Although it is possible to study papers from all three PPL subject areas as part of this course (subject to college approval), you must apply to specialise in two of the three.
Students applying for Psychology and Philosophy (CV85) or Psychology and Linguistics (CQ81) apply for a 4-year MSci.
Students applying for Philosophy and Linguistics (VQ51) apply for a 3-year BA.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/religion-and-asian-and-middle-eastern-studies:
UCAS code: VT69 Entrance requirements: AAA Course duration: 3 years (BA)
Required subjects: Not applicable Recommended subjects: Not applicable Helpful subjects: A subject involving essay writing / a language
Admissions tests: None Written Work: One piece
Interviewed: 44% Successful: 20% Intake: 2 Successful for a different course: 10% Applicant intake for a different course: 1 *3-year average 2022-24
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 278312 Email: [email protected]
The course in Religion and Asian and Middle Eastern Studies offers students an in-depth understanding of one of a number of the world’s great religious traditions including Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Islam and Judaism.
To engage with all the different aspects of the course, you will have to become something of a historian and a philosopher, a textual and literary critic, as well as an accomplished linguist.
These disciplines together, not only enable students to appreciate the qualities of religions that can be radically different from those in Western societies, but also equip graduates with the analytical and critical abilities to embark on a wide range of careers.
Religion and Asian and Middle Eastern Studies enables students to study a major world religion through its primary texts in their original languages.
It provides them with an understanding of the intellectual underpinning of religious traditions, and of the social and cultural contexts for religious beliefs and practices.
Students can also explore topics such as the relationship between religions and science, and the place of religious ethics in public life.
Between them, the Faculties of Theology and Religion and Asian and Middle Eastern Studies include more than 270 academics, ranging from experts in the ancient languages and literature of the world’s religions to church historians and systematic theologians.
The reputations of both faculties, together with Oxford’s excellent library facilities, attract scholars from all over the world.
'[The course] is a rewarding subject if you like the combination of essay writing and language learning.
You have the option to choose a broad range of topics offered by the Theology and Religion Faculty from history of early Christianity to mysticism to psychology of religion while the [Asian and Middle Eastern Studies] department provides you with a thorough learning of the religious language of your choice.
For me, this is Sanskrit, for which I have five hours of tuition every week.
I balance this with modules from Religion: Nature of religion and the Gospels and Jesus to name a few.'
Puja-Arti
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Religion and Asian and Middle Eastern Studies.
Your typical weekly timetable will be divided between one or two tutorials, which may take place at your college or at the college of a specialist tutor.
Each week you will also attend up to six lectures.
Throughout the course and especially in your first year, you will attend at least three (and often more) language classes each week.
A large part of your week will be spent in independent study to prepare for language classes and for tutorials.
Class sizes may vary depending on the options you choose or the language you are studying, but would normally have no more than around 10 students.
First University examinations: four papers assessed by written and (depending on the option) oral examination.
Students take eight papers.
Three papers must be selected from those taught by the Faculty of Theology and Religion and another three must be from those taught by the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies.
The remaining two papers may be in either subject.
Students choose papers from a variety of subject areas offered by the Faculty of Theology and Religion, including:
For Asian and Middle Eastern Studies, students specialise in the study of one of the following religions, particularly through the study of its texts in their original languages:
Advanced language options are for candidates who have studied the same language for the Preliminary Examination.
As one of their eight papers, all students must prepare a 12,000-word thesis on a topic of their choice in either Asian and Middle Eastern Studies or Theology and Religion.
Final University examinations: seven papers (assessed either by written examination or by submitted coursework, depending upon the option), plus a thesis
The options listed in this section are illustrative and may change; not all languages are available every year.
More information about current options is available on the Faculty of Theology and Religion website and the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies website .
Experience of studying a language, and a subject involving essay writing, to either A-level, Advanced Higher, Higher Level in the IB or another equivalent can be helpful to students in completing this course, although they are not required for admission.
Students are not expected to have studied any of the languages on the course before.
Your work may be on any subject and not necessarily Language or Religion.
Read the further guidance available in the answers to FAQs on the Theology and Religion Faculty’s website .
Your UCAS personal statement should focus on your academic reasons for wishing to study Religion and Asian and Middle Eastern Studies.
Admissions tutors will be keen to find out about your linguistic aptitude and your commitment to a wide-ranging course.
They will be looking for an ability to think clearly, form sound arguments and to listen and respond to counterarguments.
You may be asked to consider a sample language, a religious, philosophical or ethical question or to study a brief text or image, but whatever the subject of discussion, interviewers are interested in how you think and how you approach questions.
Students are not expected to have prior knowledge of the subject or language.
Visit the Theology and Religion website and the Asian and Middle Eastern Studies website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course.
Oxford graduates in Religion and Asian and Middle Eastern Studies can expect to go on to careers as diverse as:
Employers look very favourably on applicants who have learned languages and Oxford graduates with such skills are among the most successful each year in finding employment.
Oxford's Faculty of Theology and Religion is the top ranked Theology, Divinity and Religious Studies Department in the UK and Europe and second in the world in the 2024 QS World University rankings, by subject.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/course-listing/theology-and-religion:
UCAS code: V600 Entrance requirements: AAA Course duration: 3 years (BA)
Required subjects: Not applicable Recommended subjects: Not applicable Helpful subjects: A subject involving essay writing.
Interviewed: 69% Successful: 36% Intake: 43 *3-year average 2022-24
Theology is an ancient intellectual discipline, with continuing and momentous social significance around the world today.
Students gain an understanding of the intellectual underpinning of religious traditions, and of the social and cultural contexts for religious belief and practice.
">Video of Undergraduate Study at Oxford&#039;s Faculty of Theology and Religion
(Please note that this video refers to the course BA Religion and Oriental Studies, which has since been retitled BA Religion and Asian and Middle Eastern Studies .)
In order to engage fully with the questions raised by the critical study of Theology and Religion, you will have to become something of a historian and a philosopher, a textual and literary critic, and a linguist.
The range of disciplines that may be encountered on the course makes study vibrant and challenging and means that our graduates are versatile and equipped with a variety of skills.
Oxford has been at the very heart of religious debate, reform and turmoil in the British Isles for eight centuries and so the faculty here wears a mantle of history not available in many other universities.
At the same time Theology and Religion at Oxford is embracing its 21st-century context: students have the opportunity to study five major world religions and their primary languages.
They can also explore the relationship between religion and science, the philosophy of religion and the place of religious ethics in public life.
On completion of this course you will have gained knowledge and understanding of different religious traditions.
You will have thought about what a religion is and how to approach learning about it.
You will have studied the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament, the development of Christian doctrine in its historical context, and the thought of modern theologians.
In doing so you will be required to study a wide variety of texts, which will develop your critical, analytical and comparative skills.
You will also acquire competence in at least one of six languages and should find that being able to read sacred texts in their original language is a deeply satisfying experience.
Members of the Faculty of Theology and Religion include more than 100 academics, including experts in the ancient languages and literature of the world’s religions, church historians and systematic theologians.
The faculty’s reputation and excellent library facilities attract scholars from all over the world.
If you’re interested in studying Theology and Religion but your personal or educational circumstances have meant you are unlikely to achieve the grades typically required for Oxford courses, then choosing to apply for a Foundation Year might be right for you.
'The Oxford tutorial system is thoroughly enjoyable and engaging because it challenges you to defend and develop your views on a whole range of topics and authors.
Being able to talk to some of the leading academics in the world really encourages you to reflect on your own thinking and writing.
Theology incorporates such a broad range of skills that are transferable to many different situations, from literary-critical to historical-critical to evaluative skills.
The subject gives you great potential for academic and personal development.'
Gemma
'The Theology course at Oxford is very diverse; it gives you an opportunity to explore interests from Pauline literature to modern Judaism in society.
The Reformation papers that I opted to study allowed me to engage with the subject as if I was an historian or literature student, as well as tackling major theological issues.
Theology students here are required to study a biblical language, classical Arabic, Pali or Sanskrit in their first year.
Coming to university with little more than a GCSE in German, I was apprehensive about this at first!
However, I was guided through the study of New Testament Greek with classes and one-to-one sessions, and although challenging, the benefits of studying texts in their original languages have proved invaluable.'
Janelle
Please select 'see course data' to view the full Unistats data for Theology and Religion.
Each week you will also attend up to six lectures, which, in the first year, will include three hours of language instruction.
Some course options in the second and third year are also taught in small classes instead of, or in addition to, tutorials.
Class sizes may vary depending on the options you choose, but would normally have no more than around 10 students.
First University examinations: four papers each assessed by a written examination
Students select seven papers from about 40 options.
Options cover a variety of subject areas including:
All students must also prepare a 12,000-word thesis on a topic of their choice
Final University examinations: seven papers (assessed either by written examination or by submitted coursework, depending upon the option), plus a compulsory thesis
The options listed in this section are illustrative and may change.
More information about current options is available on the Theology and Religion website .
If your personal or educational circumstances have meant you are unlikely to achieve the grades listed above for undergraduate study, but you still have a strong interest in the subject, then applying for Theology and Religion with a Foundation Year might be right for you.
Your work may be on any subject and not necessarily Theology or Religion.
Read the further guidance available in the answers to FAQs on the Faculty’s website .
Your UCAS personal statement should focus on your academic reasons for wishing to study Theology and Religion.
In interviews, tutors will look for:
You may be asked to consider a religious, philosophical or ethical question or to study a brief text or image.
Visit the Theology and Religion website for more detail on the selection criteria for this course .
While some Theology and Religion graduates go on to further academic study, others have pursued a wide variety of careers, including:
Rob says of his work as a manager in Accenture:
‘People are always surprised when I tell them what my degree was!
However, it really helped shape my analytical skills through the tutorial system.
The breadth of subject matter in Theology prepared me for the different subjects I encounter each day as a management consultant.’
Chris Bryant MP says:
‘The intellectual discipline of theology, its focus on the big philosophical and existential issues of humanity and its insight into people from different cultures, perspectives, religions and political beliefs has been immensely useful throughout my working life.’
We are the top ranked Theology, Divinity and Religious Studies Department in the UK and Europe and second in the world in the 2024 QS World University rankings, by subject.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/selection-criteria:
For details about each course, including the admission requirements and how to apply, please see the course pages .
The links below give the selection criteria for each course on the departmental webpages.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/suggested-subject-resources:
Whether you need inspiration for your personal statement, something to think about before your interview or whether you are simply intellectually curious, you might find the suggested reading and resources below useful and entertaining.
They are intended to give you an idea of the kind of material you might engage with during a course at Oxford.
We've also included links to the University's current research to give you an idea of how academic research can impact upon society.
Remember, these are only suggestions for further reading, so please don't feel restricted to only reading what we recommend!
We have also compiled the best of our cross-curricular digital resources to support learning and exploration in our Digital Resource Hub .
You can also enjoy an insight into what it's like to study at Oxford by exploring our free podcasts and videos.
These include public lectures covering a wide range of subjects, plus teaching resources, interviews with leading academics, and more.
You can watch and listen on your computer, or download files via our podcasts page .
You may also like to have a look at our Medium channel for articles about Oxford research, covering topics from the weirdest plants in the Botanical Garden to how to teach a computer to recognise your cat.
Suggested reading for Archaeology and Anthropology .
You may also like to take a look at the website Discover Anthropology .
Oxford research:
Suggested reading for Asian and Middle Eastern Studies can be found on the Asian and Middle Eastern Studies website by following the relevant links below:
Suggested reading lists for BA Egyptology and Near Eastern Studies, BA Hebrew Studies and BA Jewish Studies are currently in development and will hopefully be available in the near future.
Read the recommended reading list for Biochemistry.
At present we do not produce a reading list for students applying for Biology but we encourage you to read New Scientist , National Geographic or any other Biology materials which you find interesting.
Research videos:
Introductory Reading for Biomedical Sciences .
Introductory reading for Chemistry .
You may also like to read Chemistry World magazine , and view other resources from the Royal Society of Chemistry .
There is no reading list for students applying for Classical Archaeology and Ancient History, as we encourage students to engage with whatever they find interesting about the ancient world.
If you are interested in Classical Archaeology and Ancient History, this will include the historical and archaeological evidence through which we learn about that world.
As well as visiting your local museum, or other museums, you may wish to explore some websites which have excellent links to historical and archaeological materials, such as the British Museum or Oxford’s own Ashmolean Museum's collection highlights , or the BBC Radio 4 archives , for example for the programme ‘In Our Time’, covering material from Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome .
There are also many social media sites which you can join such as Classics Confidential, Classics Outreach and Classics International.
There is no reading list for students applying for Classics, as we encourage students to read as widely as possible about any Classics materials they find interesting (in literature, history, philosophy, archaeology, and/or philology), and to think critically about their reading.
You may also wish to explore some websites which have excellent links to materials about the ancient world, such as the British Museum or the BBC Radio 4 archives , for example for the programme ‘In Our Time’, covering material from Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome .
For the English Literature element of the course, we recommend that you read as widely as possible, and think critically about all the texts – literary or not – that you read.
Read more about this in our examples of interview questions .
You can find literary resources on our Great Writers Inspire site .
You may also like to look at literary websites and listen to radio programs such as BBC Radio 4's ' In Our Time '.
You may also wish to explore some websites which have excellent links to materials about the ancient world, such as the British Museum or the BBC Radio 4 archives , for example for the programme ‘In Our Time’, covering material from Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome .
Please view the guidance on the FAQs section of the Modern Languages faculty website under the heading 'How best to prepare for the entrance procedure'.
You can also find reading lists on the individual pages of the following languages:
Suggested reading for Asian and Middle Eastern Studies can be found on the Asian and Middle Eastern Studies website by following the relevant links below:
Introductory reading for prospective applicants to Computer Science can be found on the departmental website.
You may also like to look at our GeomLab website which will introduce you to some of the most important ideas in computer programming in an interactive, visual way through a guided activity.
Introductory reading for prospective applicants to Computer Science can be found on the departmental website.
There are many introductions to philosophy: Myles Burnyeat and Ted Honderich’s ‘Philosophy’ as it is a very useful collection.
Martin Hollis ‘An Invitation to Philosophy’ and Simon Blackburn’s ‘Think’ are also recommended but feel free to pick up any introductory or beginners’ text.
At present we do not produce a reading list for students applying for Earth Sciences but we encourage you to read New Scientist , National Geographic or any other relevant materials which you find interesting.
An indispensable introduction to economic analysis, both for those who have not studied it at school and for those who have is ‘The Economist’ or the Economics pages of newspapers.
Paul Krugman’s writings are highly recommended.
Begg, Fischer and Dornbusch’s ‘Economics’ is one of the introductory textbooks widely used at Oxford.
You can find the Economics reading list and Management reading list online.
At present we do not produce a reading list for students applying for Engineering Science but we encourage you to read any relevant materials which you find interesting.
Here are some online resources you may like to use to test your knowledge:
Please visit the guidance on the FAQs section of the Modern Languages faculty website under the heading 'How best to prepare for the entrance procedure'.
Please visit the guidance on the FAQs section of the Modern Languages faculty website under the heading 'How can I prepare myself for the entrance procedure?'.
This advice can be applied to both the European and the Middle Eastern elements of the course.
Suggested reading for Asian and Middle Eastern Studies can be found on the Asian and Middle Eastern Studies website by following the relevant links below:
Please view the suggested reading for Experimental Psychology.
This document also includes reading suggestions for those interested in the Psychology, Philosophy and Linguistics course.
The following list is suggested as a starting point and is not exhaustive and nor does it mean that you must read these.
We strongly encourage all students to attend exhibitions and look at art works as much as possible.
Public art galleries like Tate Modern, the Whitechapel, and the Serpentine in London, the Ikon in Birmingham, the Liverpool Tate, the Whitworth in Manchester, the Baltic in Gateshead, the Arnolfini in Bristol, and Tramway in Glasgow are all excellent places to see contemporary art and to find out more about it.
Other excellent resources include:
It is also a good idea to look at journals such as:
An indispensable introduction to contemporary issues in Geography is the Royal Geographical Society 'Geographical Magazine'.
Reading 'The Economist' is also highly recommended.
The best way to prepare for a History degree is to read the history books which interest you, either related to your school work or ranging beyond it – and be prepared to discuss your views of those books and their arguments.
To find such material, you might want to follow up on references made in your school or college text books, or your History teacher may also be able to recommend particular works for you to read on topics that you find most interesting.
One good way of broadening your historical horizons is to read one of the popular History magazines: History Today or BBC History , which has weekly podcasts .
You may like to look at the books which are being reviewed in the quality press.
You may also like to explore the websites of public institutions which have excellent links to historical materials, such as the British Museum or BBC Radio 4 archives .
Lastly, delving into some historical sources can be a great way to develop your ideas and understanding.
You could try exploring literature, art, music or even films produced by different societies, and consider what these can tell us about the people of that time.
There is no reading list for students applying for Ancient and Modern History, as we encourage students to read as widely as possible about any period of history, ancient and/or modern, that they find interesting.
(View 'History' above).
For the ancient world, you may also wish to explore websites which have excellent links to historical materials, such as the British Museum or Oxford’s own Ashmolean Museum , the BBC Radio 4 archives , for example for the programme ‘In Our Time', covering material from Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome .
An indispensable introduction to economic analysis, both for those who have not studied it at school and for those who have is ‘ The Economist ’ or the Economics pages of newspapers.
Begg, Fischer and Dornbusch’s ‘Economics ’ is one of the introductory textbooks widely used at Oxford.
Politics is a very wide-ranging subject.
In addition to newspapers and weeklies, Jonathan Wolff’s 'An Introduction to Political Philosophy' is recommended; and also, for interesting and up-to-date insights into recent political developments in a number of countries, the series of texts produced by Macmillan publishers at regular intervals called ‘Developments in British (French, German, East European etc.) Politics’ .
A reading list for prospective applicants to History of Art can be found on the History of Art departmental website .
You may also find it interesting to explore the following resources:
Introductory reading lists can be found on the Institute of Human Sciences website .
We recommend that you start by reading the court reports in broad sheet newspapers.
As the reading lists for the degree course change each year it isn't always advisable to buy text books in advance, but you may find one or more of the books from this list useful when preparing your application Introductory reading for Law .
It can be useful to look at the list of law academics on the departmental website and follow the links to their latest publications.
All lecturers have their own lists, which change from year to year and include books and journal articles.
You may also like to read the BBC's website Law in Action , and download their podcasts.
Other recommendation are the Guardian's law pages and the Counsel magazine .
There is no set text and students should read widely around the subject.
Introductory reading for prospective applicants to Materials Science can be found on the departmental website.
Students may also wish to read the New Scientist magazine which may be available in your school or local library.
Running an internet search on Nanoscience or Nanotechnology will give useful background information in the sciences.
Here are some further resources to test your knowledge:
Reading lists for prospective Mathematics applicants can be found on page 12 of the departmental prospectus, available to download from the Maths Department website .
Reading lists for prospective Mathematics and Philosophy applicants can be found on page 18 of the departmental prospectus, available to download from the Maths Department website .
Reading lists for prospective Mathematics and Statistics applicants can be found on page 12 of the departmental prospectus, available to download from the Maths Department website .
Prospective students for Medicine may like to start by looking at the introductory reading list below.
You may also be interested in the Oxford Medical School Gazette, for more information about the Gazette and subscription offers for Sixth Form students please visit the Medicine website .
Introductory Reading for Medicine
You can find reading lists on the individual pages for of following languages:
You can also download the Introductory reading list for Linguistics .
Please refer to this recommended reading list for Music .
There are many introductions to philosophy: Myles Burnyeat and Ted Honderich’s ‘ Philosophy ’ as it is a very useful collection.
Martin Hollis ‘ An Invitation to Philosophy ’ and Simon Blackburn’s ‘ Think ’ are also recommended but feel free to pick up any introductory or beginners’ text.
Please visit the guidance on the FAQs section of the Modern Languages faculty website under the heading 'How best to prepare for the entrance procedure' for the Modern Languages element of this course.
You of also find reading lists on the individual pages for the following languages:
We always recommend that students read widely around their subject, deepening their knowledge and understanding, to help prepare for their application.
Tutors will be looking for evidence of students' academic potential, as well as their commitment and motivation for their course, so will certainly be looking for evidence that a student has really engaged with their subject, and has a passion for studying it.
This is particularly important for courses like PPE, as many students will not have studied any of these three subjects at their school or college.
The very best preparation is a reasonable grasp of the workings of the social and political world in which we live.
For PPEists, reading newspapers, watching TV and listening to radio news and current affairs programmes are not optional activities – they are crucial to success at the subject.
Students should read a good quality daily newspaper, and ‘ The Economist ’ weekly is also highly recommended – this offers unparalleled quantity and quality analysis of current events.
In addition to newspapers and weeklies, Jonathan Wolff’s ' An Introduction to Political Philosophy ' is recommended; and also, for interesting and up-to-date insights into recent political developments in a number of countries, the series of texts produced by Macmillan publishers at regular intervals called ‘ Developments in British (French, German, East European etc.) Politics ’.
An indispensable introduction to economic analysis in use both for those who have not studied it at school and for those who have is ‘ The Economist ’ or the Economics pages of newspapers.
Begg, Fischer and Dornbusch’s ‘ Economics ’ is one of the introductory textbooks widely used at Oxford.
At present we do not produce a specific Theology reading list for people who are considering making an application, though we always advise prospective candidates to read beyond what they are reading in school and to explore areas that interest them.
There are many suitable sources for reading.
Popular science books are normally readily available at your local library, as are copies of the New Scientist or other scientific periodicals.
Anything that takes your interest will be valuable; we have no set reading list.
However, for general preparation prospective candidates can view the suggestions on the Physics department website .
We also recommend maths preparation .
There is also lots of information on the internet, on sites such as www.physics.org or through some of the excellent science blogs.
The University of Oxford publishes a science blog and our department also runs a project called Galaxy Zoo which is part of the Zooniverse community of projects , which allows members of the public to contribute to astrophysics research.
Large scientific organisations such as CERN and NASA publish a lot of good material online, for example the Astronomy Picture of the Day website .
Here are some further resources to test your Physics knowledge:
iTunesU can also be a very useful resource, as it has a range of physics content, from public talks to undergraduate lectures, from a variety of reputable sources.
There is also lots of information on the internet, on sites such as www.physics.org .
or through some of the excellent science blogs.
Please follow this link for the suggested reading list for Psychology, Philosophy and Linguistics.
This document also includes suggested reading for Experimental Psychology.
At present we do not produce a specific Religion and Asian and Middle Eastern Studies reading list for people who are considering making an application, though we always advise prospective candidates to read beyond what they are reading in school and to explore areas that interest them.
You may also find it interesting to explore the BBC Radio 4 archives of the ' In Our Time ' program, especially the Religion and Philosophy archives .
Staircase 12 is an online hub of resources brought to you by University College .
It's full of tips and ideas on how to stretch yourself beyond the school syllabus.
So why not check out the Reading Bank , and Resource Hub , or to find out why all this is important in the first place, check out the ‘Explore your Subject’ top tips page .
These resources can help inspire you to think broadly as well as enable you to explore your passions and interests further, and to discover more about Oxford.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/courses/important-legal-information-about-potential-course-changes:
The information below is for students starting an undergraduate course in 2023-2024.
The University will seek to deliver each course in accordance with the description set out in the Course Information Sheet that forms part of the University student contract .
However, there may be situations in which it is desirable or necessary for the University to make changes in course provision, either before or after enrolment.
There are two main scenarios in which such changes might happen:
Normal circumstances (where there is no pandemic, epidemic or local health emergency) (see paragraph 1 to 5 below); and
Circumstances where a pandemic (including Covid-19), epidemic or local health emergency arises, or has arisen (see paragraphs 6 to 8 below).
The provision of course options which depend on the availability of specialist teaching, or on placement at another institution, cannot be guaranteed in advance.
There may be situations in which it is desirable or necessary for the University to make changes in course provision, either before or after enrolment.
Where desirable or necessary changes are to be made, the University will offer, where possible, appropriate and alternative arrangements for affected students.
If you do not wish to accept any alternative arrangements then you will have the opportunity to withdraw from your course.
The University will not make very substantial changes to courses (for example, a change to the course title, significant restructuring, substantial change in course content, or the introduction of a progression hurdle) which would impact on you once you have started your course.
In exceptional circumstances it may be necessary for the University to make such a change after you have accepted your Offer.
This will not normally happen less than 3 months before you start your course.
You will be notified of any such change (as compared to the description in your Course Information Sheet) and offered the opportunity to withdraw from the course.
In exceptional circumstances we may need to suspend, discontinue or combine courses.
This may be because of academic changes within subject areas, or as a result of low student numbers on a course.
Other changes could be made to course content, delivery and teaching provision because of developments in the relevant subject, enhancements in teaching or assessment practice, requirements of external accreditation processes, changes in staffing, resource constraints or changes in the availability of facilities.
Such changes will take account of the reasonable expectations of prospective and current students.
Once you have accepted your Offer, you will be notified of any material change made before you start your course (as compared to the description in your Course Information Sheet) and you will be offered the opportunity to withdraw from the course.
Once you have started your course, you will be consulted about any proposed material course change (except changes which are solely for students’ benefit) which would affect the part of the course which you have already started studying.
6.
Where a pandemic (including Covid-19), epidemic or local health emergency necessitating measures to reduce risk of infection or illness arises or has already arisen the University may make reasonable changes to comply with government or local authority regulations or guidance, and/or its own health and safety advice and/or to ensure the health and safety of staff, students and third parties and/or to respond to consequential staffing or resource constraints.
The University will inform you if it makes any such changes.
7.
The University will ensure that when making changes as a result of a pandemic etc the core competencies and learning outcomes of the course will still be provided.
The University will also provide broadly equivalent teaching and assessment services, and key University services by alternative means if reasonably possible, although the manner of delivery may need to change.
8.
Examples of possible changes as a result of a pandemic etc include:
a.
Providing teaching, assessment or other services wholly or partly online or via other remote means;
b.
Moving the location of teaching and/or restricting student numbers permitted to attend any location at one time (including restricting numbers at libraries, lectures, seminars or laboratories);
c.
Teaching at evenings, weekends or outside Full Term[1];
d.
Requiring students to comply with health and safety measures the University deems necessary which are specific to particular sites or activities, which may be in addition to any HSI, such as additional social distancing measures, or wearing of face masks or personal protective equipment.
e.
Staggering attendance by students at University so that for part of a term you are not allowed to attend University premises in person;
f.
Varying, limiting or cancelling elements of course content, including reducing the number of optional modules available;
g.
Varying, limiting or cancelling access to any University services or facilities;
h.
Varying, limiting or cancelling any learning experiences that would normally happen face-to-face or in-person (eg work in laboratories, museums, studios, music facilities or via fieldwork or work-placement).
i.
Varying, limiting, cancelling or putting in place measures to reduce the risk of any time due to be spent in education or work abroad or on a placement (including varying destinations) as a mandatory or optional component of courses.
If a period of study or work abroad, or other placement, has to be cancelled entirely then this includes moving a student to an appropriate degree course that does not include the time abroad or on placement.
Subject to the provisions explained above, no refunds, discounts, damages, waivers of course fees or other charges will be payable to you where changes or delays have resulted from, been caused by, or are in relation to a pandemic (including Covid-19), epidemic or local health emergency necessitating measures to reduce risk of infection or illness.
The University will also not be liable for any consequential losses or expenses you may incur (eg travel or accommodation costs) as a result of any such pandemic, epidemic or health emergency measures.
[1] Full Term means the University’s dates for Michaelmas (Autumn), Hilary (Spring) and Trinity (Summer) terms,

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses:
On our graduate course pages you'll find essential information about each department and the courses they offer, to help you to narrow your focus to a particular course.
An overview of the types of graduate course available at Oxford, from doctorates to diplomas.
A comprehensive A-Z of Oxford's graduate courses.
Filter by course type and search by keyword.
Explore our graduate courses by department or by academic division.
Talk to our staff and students at events in Oxford, across the UK and worldwide.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/student-life:
Find out more about graduate student life at Oxford, and the facilities and opportunities you can enjoy here.
Our international reputation for world-leading research and resources attracts students from all over the world.
Oxford offers a range of studying options, with courses available for both full-time and part-time study.
Our alumni are highly regarded across the world, and go on to achieve success in many fields.
There's an incredible variety of student clubs and societies at Oxford, spanning interests from salsa to Tolkien.
A fantastic city to live in, full of exciting people, places and things.
The University is committed to supporting your physical and mental health and well-being.
Become one of the thousands of new students that arrive in Oxford every year from around the world.
For student families, we offer childcare facilities, parental leave and other support.
These Student life pages provide an overview of the Oxford experience and are subject to the more detailed information provided in the Courses , Colleges , Fees and funding , International , Applying to Oxford and After you apply pages.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/student-life/why-study-at-oxford:
The University of Oxford has an outstanding global reputation for its teaching, research and contributions to society.
We combine rich history and tradition with the innovative and forward-thinking approach of a modern university.
The Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2025 rank the University of Oxford as the best university in the world for an impressive ninth consecutive year.
Oxford was also ranked first in the THE 's 2024 subject rankings for clinical and health and the subject rankings for computer science .
The University was also ranked in the top 5 in the THE's World University Rankings by subject for social sciences, life sciences, business and economics, arts and humanities, and Engineering.
The QS World University Rankings 2025: Top global universities place Oxford in the top 3 universities in the world.
There are over 13,000 graduate students at Oxford, forming half of the University’s overall student body.
Graduate students are key to our academic community, and join our world-leading academics in tackling the most important questions we face today.
Admission to graduate study at Oxford is very competitive.
Requirements vary between courses, but in general our academic departments look for students with the ability, enthusiasm, curiosity and commitment needed to pursue higher-level study here.
We welcome applications from students of all ages, nationalities and backgrounds.
We have high expectations of our graduate students, and we aim to provide a supportive and stimulating environment in which you can reach your full potential.
This includes cutting-edge research facilities and unrivalled resources across the disciplines, as well as personal and welfare support, academic guidance and a sense of community throughout your time here.
Oxford's graduate students have access to outstanding resources and facilities, including over 100 libraries, cutting-edge experimental labs and world-famous museums and collections.
Continue reading this page to find our more.
Oxford is one of the world’s top research universities and boasts world-class facilities for study and research.
We are famous for our research excellence and innovation, and home to some of the most talented researchers in the world.
The Research Excellent Framework 2021 (REF) show Oxford's submission had the highest volume of “world-leading” (4*) research of any UK institution, submitting over 3,600 researchers (3,405 full time equivalent) into 29 subject areas, over 8,500 research outputs in a range of formats from journal articles to compositions, and 220 case studies about the impact of Oxford research beyond academia.
In 2021-22, the University of Oxford received £711.4 million in external research funding.
The University is at the forefront of research on topics of national, regional and global significance.
Our work is ground-breaking, collaborative and interdisciplinary .
We're dedicated to fostering research collaborations across the world with research institutions, research agencies, funding bodies, industrial and commercial partners, sponsors and benefactors.
Graduate students are central to the University's research efforts.
They join our academic staff in working to answer fundamental questions and tackle some of the major challenges facing the world today.
We look for the most promising students to join our outstanding departments and faculties.
As a graduate student at Oxford you’ll work alongside your peers and leading experts in your field, who will inspire and support you throughout your time here.
You’ll have access to world-class facilities and resources in your subject, and you’ll be encouraged to get involved in the intellectual life of your department and the wider academic community.
An Oxford research degree is an opportunity to immerse yourself in your chosen area, pursue your own ideas and make a significant and original contribution to knowledge.
We provide a supportive environment in which researchers at every stage of their career can flourish.
Watch some of our current and former students talk about their research at Oxford , from advanced cooling technologies for jet engines to how blood stem cells are made.
You can find out more about our graduate research courses on our 'Choosing a course' page.
Over the last ten years, the University has invested over £400 million in its science facilities and infrastructure.
Here are just some of our newest world-class facilities:
Oxford is famous for its libraries, and with good reason.
The University has incredible collections of books, manuscripts and other materials, many of them housed in beautiful, historic buildings.
These resources draw scholars to the University from all over the world.
Founded in 1602, the Bodleian is the principal University library, and one of the oldest libraries in Europe.
For 400 years, it has received a copy of every item, digital or online, published in the UK.
The Bodleian Libraries is also the largest library system in the UK.
It includes the main Bodleian Library and libraries all across Oxford, including major research libraries and faculty, department and institute libraries.
Together, the Libraries hold more than 13 million printed items, over 80,000 e-journals, and outstanding special collections including rare books and manuscripts, classical papyri, maps, music, art and printed ephemera.
As a graduate student, you’ll be issued with a Bodleian Reader Card (often called a ‘Bod card’), which will give you access to the Bodleian Libraries and their world-class resources.
To help you get the most from Oxford’s libraries, the Bodleian runs workshops to develop your research skills and help you to keep up with emerging research in your area, get access to the scholarly materials you need and manage your research data.
The Bodleian is networked with around 30 department and faculty libraries.
These libraries not only offer large holdings of books and journals, but they’re invaluable resource hubs for any student engaged in study or research in a particular subject area.
For example, the Radcliffe Science Library , the University’s main science library, holds about 1 million printed items across the scientific disciplines.
It hosts training workshops on topics such as working with sensitive research data and open-access scholarship, and runs inductions for graduate students in science subjects.
The library also offers 3D printing and scanning services, VR equipment and a 360° camera, with drop-in sessions to let students try out these resources and learn more about using them in research.
Oxford’s colleges boast impressive libraries.
Most colleges have large holdings across the disciplines, and some also offer specialist collections in a particular subject area.
You can view just some of these incredible books, manuscripts and other ephemera on Digital Bodleian .
Many college libraries are open 24 hours a day, and offer graduate students access to fantastic resources as well as a quiet, comfortable place to study.
You can find out more about each college’s library in our College listing .
Oxford combines a rich heritage with infrastructure and facilities that are adapted to the needs of today’s students and scholars.
Across the University, digital technologies are enabling new kinds of research and learning, from computational approaches to drug discovery to exploring the Colosseum in VR.
Oxford has been a centre of excellence for computing and engineering for decades, and is at the forefront of research in areas such as artificial intelligence and quantum computing.
But no matter your subject, we want to enable you to make the most of technology to enhance your study and research.
We have one of the largest private networks in the UK, providing high-speed internet and excellent IT facilities and support, with hundreds of computers for use throughout the University.
Our virtual learning environments (VLEs) allow students to access course materials and collaborate, and many lectures are captured as audio or video podcasts.
At Oxford, fantastic research materials are often just a few clicks away.
Using SOLO, the University’s main search engine for library collections, students can search almost all of the holdings in the Bodleian, as well as departmental, faculty and college libraries across Oxford — that’s millions of printed books, e-books, online journals, articles, reports and databases at your fingertips.
Our museums and libraries use new technologies to provide digital access to their collections, including many objects and texts you might not otherwise get to see.
Digital Bodleian makes the Bodleian’s unique riches freely available to the world.
It features over 650,000 digital objects, including images of manuscripts, rare books, maps and ephemera, from medieval Arabic cosmographies to maps of Middle Earth annotated by JRR Tolkien, and from classical papyri to drafts of Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein.
The Ashmolean Museum has also embarked on a major project to digitise its collections, with over 60,000 object records available for you to browse or search .
Oxford’s academic community is committed to providing the widest possible access to its world-class research.
We have a policy of open access for publications that result from the University’s research.
All researchers are encouraged to deposit their research publications in the Oxford Research Archive (ORA), the University’s digital repository, which holds more than 225,000 works including datasets.
We provide many opportunities for graduate students to gain valuable digital research skills and develop a better understanding of finding and working with data.
The Bodleian iSkills programme offers workshops for graduate students in information discovery and scholarly communications, and training in digital research skills are also run by our graduate schools.
The Bodleian Data Library can advise you on finding data and statistics and managing your research data.
It also manages access to restricted data collections, and helps researchers apply for access to sensitive datasets held offsite.
The University’s IT Learning Centre (ITLC) runs many classroom-based IT courses, taught in state-of-the-art learning rooms.
Courses cover topics such as programming, digital media and platforms, data analysis, data management, data visualisation and high-performance computing.
All University members also have free access to a vast library of video learning courses on LinkedIn Learning.
These courses are taught by industry experts and cover thousands of topics, from Python to project management.
As a graduate student, you’ll have free access to Oxford’s world-famous museums and collections.
They offer astonishing resources for study and research.
The Ashmolean Museum is the University’s museum of art and archaeology, and the oldest public museum in the world.
Opened in 1683, it has important and diverse collections from around the globe, ranging from Egyptian mummies and classical sculpture to the Pre-Raphaelites and modern art.
For graduate students working with historical materials, the Ashmolean is a uniquely rich resource.
You might be encouraged to explore the Ashmolean’s collections, both on display and behind the scenes, and have the chance to work with some of the museum’s materials as part of your study or research.
Situated in the heart of the city, Oxford’s Botanic Garden is the oldest in the UK, and one of the oldest scientific gardens in the world.
With over 6,000 different types of plant, it is an incredible resource for research and teaching.
Current research at the Botanic Garden includes the evolution of parasitism, conservation plant collections from biodiversity hotspots, and carnivorous pitcher plants.
The History of Science Museum offers an unrivalled collection of early scientific instruments in the world’s oldest surviving purpose-built museum building.
The museum houses around 20,000 objects that represent almost all aspects of the history of science from antiquity to the 1990s, including 13th century Islamic astrolabes, Lewis Carroll’s photographic equipment and a blackboard preserved from Einstein’s second lecture in Oxford in 1931.
A ‘cathedral to science’, the Oxford Museum of Natural History has been a centre of world-leading research and scientific debate since its opening in 1860.
The stunning neo-Gothic building houses over 7 million scientific specimens, 20,000 books and half a million manuscripts, including the fossilised remains of the first dinosaur discovered by scientists and the only surviving soft tissue remains of a dodo.
The museum is a major research centre, and its collections are used in research by the Department of Earth Sciences, Department of Zoology and the School of Archaeology.
The Pitt Rivers is a museum unlike any other.
Founded in 1884, the museum houses more than half a million objects from all over the world, arranged not by age or origin but by type – a ‘democracy of things’.
Here you’ll find both great cultural treasures and everyday objects that illustrate the diversity of cultural solutions to the basic problems we face as humans.
Graduate students in archaeology and anthropology can borrow from the Balfour Library, one of the UK’s leading museum research and teaching libraries for the study of anthropology, archaeology and world music.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/student-life/ways-to-study:
The University of Oxford offers more than 330 graduate courses across the disciplines, with courses available for full-time and part-time study.
Whether you study full-time, part-time, or online, you'll belong to a department or faculty – a thriving academic community working to advance knowledge in a particular field.
Your department or faculty will provide your teaching and supervision, as well as extensive, specialist resources to support your studies.
Our departments often collaborate on joint courses and interdisciplinary research projects.
Every graduate student at Oxford is given an academic supervisor.
Throughout your course, you'll receive personalised support and guidance from an expert in your field, helping to guide your programme of study or research.
All graduate students also belong to a college, except those taking non-matriculated courses.
The collegiate system is at the heart of the University’s success.
Although your college won't provide teaching or supervise your studies (as it may do for undergraduate students), it can provide support, facilities and membership of a friendly and stimulating academic community.
Many of our taught courses are shorter than those at other institutions, making them intensive and fast-paced.
A full-time taught course typically lasts 9-12 months, but some take two years to complete.
Oxford’s main doctoral research degree is called a DPhil (our name for the PhD), and usually takes between three and four years to complete.
The University's residence requirements apply to all full-time students.
This usually means that students are required to live both within a certain distance from the University (called limits in the regulations) and for a set period of time during their studies (called terms in the regulations).
Find a full-time course
At Oxford, about one in five graduate students are studying part-time.
We offer a range of part-time courses and many of our full-time courses are also offered on a part-time basis.
These courses are a flexible way to study for a graduate degree, allowing you to fit your studies around work, family or other commitments.
They will often involve some online study from home as well as some short residentials in Oxford.
A small number of our courses are conducted online-only.
Teaching formats and patterns of study vary.
If you'd like to discuss the requirements for a specific course, please contact the academic department directly.
Part-time and online students enjoy all the benefits the the University has to offer, including excellent tuition, supervision and study resources, and are valued members of our graduate community.
">Video of Part-time Graduates at Oxford
Part-time students are exempt from the University's residence requirements , but most part-time courses require students to attend face-to-face teaching in Oxford.
If you require a visa to study in the UK, please read the information about visa eligibility for part-time courses .
Find a part-time course Find an online course
If you are a student from overseas and wish to spend a period of up to three terms (one academic year) in Oxford on a course related to the degree you are studying in your own country, you can apply to a college for a place as a registered Visiting Student.
Visiting Student status is typically intended for undergraduate students taking a year abroad.
Visiting Students should be enrolled in a home institution.
If you are a graduate student at your home institution you will follow the curriculum of an undergraduate course while you are registered as a Visiting Student at Oxford.
Please note that there are no taught graduate courses available to graduate visiting students.
As a Visiting Student you do not matriculate at the University of Oxford but your name is entered on the University’s Register as a Visiting Student and you will be affiliated with a college, society or PPH (Permanent Private Hall).
If you are interested in undertaking a period of research under a supervisor, please see the Recognised Students section of this page.
As a registered Visiting Student you become a member of an Oxford college, and it is the college that will arrange for your tuition or supervision.
Oxford does not award a degree or any other qualification for one year of study as a Visiting Student, but colleges are willing to provide a transcript, for example for credit purposes at the home institution.
If necessary (for example, for an employer) the University would be able to confirm that you were listed on the Register as a Visiting Student.
You will have access to all college facilities and membership of the Junior Common Room (JCR) - the undergraduate student body.
You also have access to a wide range of University facilities, including the Bodleian Libraries , faculty (subject) libraries, IT services , and the great wealth of lectures organised by the University throughout the academic year.
The college that you are affiliated to will collect your tuition fees, a proportion of which will go to the University to cover the cost of access to the University facilities.
You should also consider your living costs .
Accommodation may be provided by your college and there may be additional charges associated with this.
Most colleges offer accommodation to visiting students, however, should this not be the case, you may wish to visit the Studentpad website for help with finding accommodation.
Oxford SU (Student Union) manage Studentpad which is a platform where private landlords can advertise for tenants associated with the University.
Instructions about applying for Visiting Students status can be found on the Undergraduate Admissions website, which is accessible from the button below.
If you are an applicant and have received a copy of the data entry form, please see our Form Guidance that explains how to complete the form.
How to apply Form guidance
Before you arrive, you will receive the University's contractual documents and a University card application form from your college.
Your University card acts as a form of identity on college or University premises, provides admission to University libraries, IT services and the Language Centre, and in some departments can be used as a payment card or to access buildings.
Before arriving as a new student in Oxford you should complete the first step of your University registration using Student Self Service .
Your Oxford Single Sign On IT account details will be sent to you via email.
Your College Office will complete your University registration when you arrive.
On arrival your college will complete your University registration and provide you with your University card .
Once your University registration is complete you will be able to log back into Student Self Service to print an enrolment certificate and check and update your personal details throughout the year.
If your circumstances change and you have to postpone your arrival or cancel your study, please inform the college that you have applied to.
You may find some of the general information on the New students pages helpful.
Please note that not all information will be relevant to Visiting Students.
Recognised Student status is given to graduate research students who are registered with another university and have been admitted to undertake research for a minimum of one and maximum of three terms.
The status of Recognised Student is intended primarily for graduates of some years’ standing engaged in research elsewhere who wish to work in Oxford on a specific topic under the guidance of an academic familiar with the chosen area of study.
As a Recognised Student you are not affiliated to a college and will not receive a University of Oxford qualification or formal accreditation for your studies here.
It is not possible to be admitted as a Recognised Student if you have already been matriculated as a member of the University of Oxford.
In such a case, the only possibility is to return as a matriculated non-award student, which requires a college place, and incurs course fees at the Home or Overseas rate .
You can only hold your Recognised Student status for a maximum of three terms.
Your status is formalised in the Examination Regulations .
If you are not a UK or Irish national (or do not have settled or pre-settled status through the EU Settlement Scheme or indefinite leave to remain) you will need immigration permission for study in the UK.
Please refer to our visa and immigration information for recognised students .
You will be allocated an Academic Advisor who will provide general advice about your research topic.
Your advisor will not provide systematic instruction such as reading or commenting on written work because you are expected to be sufficiently advanced in your studies to undertake research largely unsupervised.
Your advisor will expect to see you two or three times each term to discuss your work as a colleague rather than as a teacher, and will report on your academic progress using the Graduate Supervision Reporting (GSR) .
You will be entitled to use the University libraries, to study/conduct your research in any University department (subject to the agreement of the head of department) and attend lectures.
Lectures (including seminars, classes or informal instruction) are subject to the permission of the lecturer, and those given in any college building are subject to the permission of the college concerned.
University tuition fees are payable to cover the cost of access to the University facilities and the guidance provided by your academic advisor.
Tuition fees do not include college fees (as you will not be affiliated with any college), accommodation, or other course and maintenance fees.
Fees must be paid within 14 days of the start of term.
You are strongly encouraged to pay your fees before arriving in Oxford by using the University's Online Shop or by bank transfer.
Please contact your department for full instructions and guidance on how to pay your fees.
All queries about the payment of fees should be made to the relevant department.
You are advised to organise accommodation before you arrive in Oxford.
As you will not be a member of a college you will not have access to college accommodation.
For help with finding accommodation, you may wish to visit the Studentpad website.
The first step is to contact the academic department where you intend to apply and obtain provisional agreement from them.
In some cases, the department will also require you to obtain provisional acceptance from a member of the academic staff who is prepared to act as your Academic Advisor or to apply by a deadline earlier than those recommended below.
To find the contact details for the department you will need to select a course from the A-Z listing that is similar to your area of intended research and refer to the 'Further information and enquires' section of the course page.
If the department agrees to consider your recognised student application, you will then be asked to complete an application form.
We recommend that you refer to our Form Guidance that explains how to complete the form.
Form guidance Application form (2024-25 entry) Application form (2025-26 entry)
Do not submit the form at this stage.
An application fee is required to complete the application and should be paid prior to submitting your application , as detailed below.
Recognised Students are required to pay an application fee of £50.
This should be paid via the University of Oxford Online Stores (accessed from the button below) prior to submitting your application .
In some circumstances, the application fee can be waived: If you are resident in a country on the list of eligible low-income countries and you are not able to pay the application fee, you can request a waiver of this fee within the application form.
Pay the application fee
Your application will not be considered unless you have paid the application fee or been granted a fee waiver.
After you have submitted an application your application fee cannot be refunded, even if you decide to withdraw it later or if it is not accepted.
The payment will not form any part of the tuition and college fees you need to pay if you are offered and accept a place at Oxford.
Once you have completed Step 3, you will receive an application fee payment/waiver code.
Please enter this into the application form and answer any remaining questions.
You can now submit the form.
The recommended submission date for the form varies by the term of admission.
Please also note that some departments may impose earlier deadlines for departmental reasons.
Please avoid submitting your recognised student application from early December to the third week in January , because the main application deadlines for graduate study occur during this period and we will not be able to process your application until February at the earliest.
If your recognised student placement would also require an ATAS certificate, please build in extra time for ATAS processing.
We recommend that if ATAS is required, that you apply at least 3 months before the visa deadline above.
Please note that it is your responsibility to check how long it will take to obtain a Visa in your country and to plan the submission of your application accordingly.
You should ensure that the start of your stay corresponds with the start date of an academic term (see the dates of term page for further details).
You will also need to submit the required documentation to the Graduate Admissions and Recruitment Office using the upload portal.
As part of the application, you are required to provide:
Upload application documentation
If you have any difficulties with uploading your application documents, please contact the Graduate Admissions and Recruitment Office by email .
The University is committed to making reasonable adjustments to enable students with disabilities (including dyslexia, dyspraxia and other specific learning difficulties, sensory or mobility impairments, Autism Spectrum Condition, long-term health conditions or mental health difficulties) to participate fully in student life.
If you have a disability you are strongly advised to refer to the further information in the Disability section of our website and contact the Disability Advisory Service by email ( [email protected] ) before you arrive in Oxford to discuss any disability-related study support requirements you might have.
Please note that in accordance with the University’s obligations towards students and staff, we will request information about relevant, unspent criminal convictions during the offer-stage process for Recognised Students so that appropriate steps can be taken to facilitate effective support and/or assess whether a prospective student poses an unacceptable risk to students and staff.
The University has adopted the following policy where an applicant with an offer for a Recognised Student place has a relevant, unspent criminal conviction which has either been declared by an applicant to the University or which has otherwise come to the University’s attention (such as where information is disclosed by a third party).
Full details of the University’s process for prospective students declaring a criminal conviction can be found in our University Policies pages.
If you are in receipt of an offer to become a Recognised Student, you will in due course be asked to declare any relevant unspent criminal convictions.
'Relevant' convictions are:
Convictions that are 'spent' (as defined by the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974) or will be spent at the point of starting your time as a Recognised Student do not need to be declared.
If you are uncertain as to whether your conviction is spent, please seek independent advice.
If you require a visa or you are extending your visa, then you must declare any unspent criminal convictions, including driving offences, when you apply to the UK Home Office.
Please see the relevant sections of the Home Office document ' Immigration Rules part 9: grounds for refusal' for information regarding possible circumstances under which a visa application may be refused.
For information about arriving in Oxford please refer to the Recognised Students page on the Oxford Students section of our website.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/student-life/careers-and-alumni:
A graduate degree from Oxford can greatly enhance your skills and career prospects.
What's more, as a graduate student you'll have access to outstanding careers support and advice, as well as exclusive resources and opportunities.
What do Oxford graduates do and where might an Oxford degree take you?
The most recent Graduate Outcomes Survey (GOS) with data collected from 2017-18 research graduates approximately 15 months after graduation shows the possible routes and careers paths.
The survey was sent to 1,286 recent PGR graduates; 721 responses were received giving a response rate of 56%.
Further details and key figures from the survey response data are shown below.
Paid work for an employer: 79.6%
Engaging in a course of study, training or research: 6.1%
Unemployed and looking for work: 2.6%
Self-employment/freelancing: 2.6%
Caring for someone (unpaid): 1.9%
Running my own business: 1.8%
Doing something else: 1.7%
Developing a creative, artistic or professional portfolio: 1.4%
Taking time out to travel: 0.8%
Retired: 0.7%
Voluntary/unpaid work for employer: 0.7%
Fitted into my career plan/it was exactly the type of work I wanted: 57.4%
To gain and broaden my experience to get the type of job I really want: 13.1%
It was the best job offer I received: 8.6%
It was the right location: 7.0%
In order to earn a living: 5.7%
To see if I would like the type of work it involved: 4.9%
It was an opportunity to progress in the organisation: 2.0%
The job was well paid: 1.2%
Entered education: 45.8%
Entered scientific research and development: 13.6%
Entered human health activities: 7.3%
Entered computer programming, consultancy and related activities: 5.6%
Not known: 4.4%
Entered activities of head offices including management consultancy activities: 2.8%
Entered financial service activities (except insurance and pension funding): 2.8%
Entered activities of extraterritorial organisations and bodies: 2.1%
Entered public administration and defence including compulsory social security: 2.1%
Natural and social sciences professionals: 46.0%
Teaching and education professionals: 13.4%
Business, research and administrative professionals: 11.1%
Information technology and telecommunications professionals: 5.7%
Health professionals: 5.1%
Not known: 3.8%
Business, finance and related associate professionals: 3.0%
*Limited to respondents in paid work for an employer.
Previously all undergraduate and postgraduate alumni have been surveyed approximately six months after they leave Oxford as part of the Government's Destination of Leavers from Higher Education (DLHE) survey.
The report includes:
The results of those surveyed between 2012-17 (those who left in the academic years of 2011/12 - 2016/17) can be viewed at DLHE Survey 2012-2017 .
Comprehensive careers advice and support for all our graduate students is available from our expert Careers Service.
The careers services available to Oxford students include:
The University’s Careers Service is here to help you prepare for your future, whether you have a clear idea of what you’d like to do next, or no idea at all.
As a student, you’ll be able to book 1:1 careers consultations with experienced careers advisers to get impartial, confidential careers advice based on your needs.
Specialist advisers can provide advice tailored for students with different requirements, including students with disabilities.
Careers Services appointment are also available to alumni within two years of the course-end date, outside term time.
As one of our graduate students, you’ll be able to take advantage of services available only to Oxford students.
This includes talks from industry experts, skills workshops, updates from the Careers Service and access to CareerConnect .
CareerConnect is the University’s careers hub, available only for Oxford students and alumni.
About 12,000 vacancies are advertised every year on CareerConnect.
Many top employers visit the University as part of one of our many careers events held throughout the year.
Our most popular fair, the Oxford University Careers Fair is held in Michaelmas term (October) and welcomes employers coving a wide range of sectors.
There are also careers fairs for specific careers or sectors, such as the Law Fair, Finance Fair, Careers in Computing Fair, Science, Technology and Engineering Fair and Jobs for Mathematicians Fair.
Many of our departments have close links with industry and host visits from industry employers, allowing students to find out more about potential career options.
The University aims to provide you with the best possible opportunities for personal and career development.
You’ll receive tailored support through your division’s graduate school, including a broad range of training courses and workshops for developing both academic and professional skills.
You may also benefit from skills training from the Bodleian Libraries, IT Services, the Language Centre, and researcher development across other divisions.
Your supervisor will help you to identify courses that will be most useful to you and build a bespoke programme of training and development based on your individual needs.
Teaching and demonstrating are a great way to develop a range of personal skills, and reinforce your knowledge of your subject.
You may take up teaching opportunities within your faculty or department, particularly if you intend to pursue an academic career path.
Whether you plan to stay in academic research, or are exploring other options, the Careers Service offers dedicated services for researchers, including advice and resources on:
This includes Career Management workshops to help you consider possible career paths, identify what you have to offer and focus on boosting your core skills.
At the annual Careers Conference for Researchers , you’ll have the opportunity to learn more about career paths that may be open to you and meet potential employers.
At many fairs, the Careers Service runs Researchers@, a pre-fair hour hosted by a specialist careers adviser to help you get the most from the fair.
The Research Careers website is edited by DPhil students and researchers, working in partnership with the Careers Service.
Here, you can find career profiles across a range of fascinating sectors written by researchers now working outside academic research.
Oxford is one of the top 10 universities in the world for graduate employability (QS World University Rankings 2020).
Our graduate degrees are highly regarded by employers.
During your time at Oxford, you’ll have plenty of opportunities to develop your skills and enhance your career prospects.
In addition to the valuable experience you’ll gain as part of your degree, our Careers Service can help you identify your needs and improve those skills through programmes that emphasise real-world experience and problem-solving.
You’ll be able to apply for internships offered exclusively to Oxford students.
These are a great way to gain experience, build your CV and explore possible career paths.
The Summer Internship Programme offers access to global internship opportunities during the summer vacation.
Hundreds of 2- to 12-week summer internships are available in more than 40 countries (including the UK), and in a wide variety of sectors.
Here are just some of the exciting funded opportunities that have been previously offered:
The Micro-Internship Programme offers convenient, short-term work placements with organisations in the UK and Europe.
Placements can be research-based or professional, and host organisations range from investment banks and consultancy firms to tech start-ups and heritage sites.
Your travel and lunch expenses will be covered, and they’re an excellent way to fit valuable work experience around your studies.
The Oxford Strategy Challenge (TOSCA) is a team-based experiential learning event with participants working on real strategy-focused client challenges over a week.
It offers an opportunity to develop a broad range of transferable skills including teamwork, leadership, communication and business awareness.
These along with the client relationship experience, will help you demonstrate your potential in applications, on your CV and in interviews.
Progressing from the Oxford Strategy Challenge, the Student Consultancy is an innovative scheme that can help you gain demonstrable skills in consultation and collaboration, as part of helping local business, charities and community organisations with their real business challenges.
Since the scheme’s launch, over 3,000 students have taken part, helping more than 250 clients.
As part of a team, you’ll work over eight weeks to address a strategic issue or business problem for a client organisation in Oxford or the surrounding area.
Students at every level can benefit from the programme—you’ll have the chance to develop your skills in strategic thinking, self-management, team working, commercial awareness, problem-solving and communication.
For DPhil students, the Researcher Strategy Consultancy can help develop the core employability skills you’ll need to transition into analytical, business or policy roles in the public or private sector.
Working in small teams over a 3-month period, you’ll address a strategic issue or business opportunity for a client organisation.
The programme offers huge benefits, whatever your career plans.
Oxford has an excellent track record in fostering entrepreneurship and innovation.
The University provides an ideal environment for starting a business, with a wealth of support, training and funding available to help you bring your ideas to life.
We're focused on the real-world impact of our research.
We’re one of the UK’s most successful organisations for commercialising research through technology licensing, accounting for £1 for every £10 earned by UK higher education.
Oxford University Innovation (OUI) has created over 160 spinout companies—more than any other UK institution—and was named best in the world in the 2017 Global University Venturing awards.
These spinouts have raised over £1.9 billion in external investment since 2011, and now have a global turnover of over £600 million.
The OUI’s new £500,000 fund, SE2020, supports the development and acceleration of spinouts where the focus is solving a social or environmental problem.
Oxford Sciences Enterprises , a company in its own right, is the largest university venture fund manager focused on a single institution in the world, with £580 million under management.
You can visit our Started in Oxford page, or follow the hashtag #StartedinOxford to find out more about the many exciting companies created here.
We believe that anyone can be an entrepreneur.
Whether you have a great idea of your own or want to get involved with an existing project, at Oxford you can find like-minded people, build confidence, develop your business judgement and gain practical skills that will support your future.
Oxford is home to the largest student entrepreneur society in Europe, Oxford Entrepreneurs , which offers events, networking and competitions, as well as opportunities for pitching, funding and learning.
There are opportunities to try out consultancy, including the Consulting Services at OUI and the Student Consultancy from the University Careers Service.
The Oxford Hub is a charity aiming to help empower people to make positive change in their communities, with a network of student-run groups.
If you have a project you’d like to incubate, you can apply for a ‘Try It’ grant of £500 or a ‘Do It’ grant of £5000.
Through the scheme you’ll also be able to access support for your project and become part of a community of people tackling social and environmental issues in Oxford.
For a comprehensive guide to what’s going on at the University, visit Enterprising Oxford .
After your degree, you'll join our community of more than 300,000 Oxford alumni worldwide.
Your membership of the University can have lifelong benefits, particularly for your career.
As an Oxonian, you can benefit from the University's support at every stage of your career, wherever you are in the world.
Whether you're searching for your first job, thinking about a career change or hoping to network with others in your industry, we have a range of services to help you:
The Oxford Alumni Group Network is a professional networking platform, designed to help you connect with Oxford alumni all over the world.
You can use the community to:
Oxford's alumni network is global: there are over 150 regional alumni groups in 90 countries .
Alumni groups are a great way to keep in touch with fellow Oxonians and continue your relationship with the University, as well as providing opportunities for networking or careers mentoring.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/student-life/about-the-city:
Oxford University doesn’t have a campus—the University and its colleges are spread across the beautiful city of Oxford.
Oxford is a diverse and historic city, just a short distance to the west of London.
It’s a major British and European centre for the arts, science, technology and innovation, and a fantastic place to live and study.
For centuries, scholars, artists, writers, scientists and film-makers have found inspiration in Oxford’s spectacular architecture—the city’s famous ‘dreaming spires’.
Oxford’s complex history has given rise to its unique character.
Around the splendid, medieval core of the ancient University and its colleges, there’s a bustling, welcoming modern city.
Oxford is one of the most culturally diverse cities in the UK, with a vibrant and cosmopolitan community.
Home to two major universities, it has some 40,000 students, almost a quarter of the city’s population, who come from all over the world.
In Oxford, you’re never far away from green spaces—there are parks, gardens and meadows throughout the city, which is also surrounded by rolling countryside.
The rivers running through the city give rise to Oxford’s famous traditions of rowing and punting, with miles of scenic waterways to enjoy.
Importantly, Oxford is also well known as a safe city.
The Complete University Guide ranks Oxford highly in its safest student cities .
You can see much more of Oxford in our Graduate Oxford video, then take the tour .
Day or night, there’s always something going on in Oxford.
The city is a fantastic centre for arts and culture, with a vibrant nightlife.
Take in classical concerts in the Sheldonian Theatre or a live gig at the O2.
Browse ancient Egyptian artefacts in the Ashmolean Museum, or contemporary visual art at Modern Art Oxford.
Catch a debate at the Oxford Union, comedy at the New Theatre, or Shakespeare in the Bodleian’s Old Schools Quadrangle.
Cheer on your college sports teams in the University Parks or from the banks of the River Isis (as the Thames is known in Oxford) in Summer Eights.
Oxford also boasts excellent food and drink—from Michelin-starred restaurants to centuries-old examples of the Great British Pub, and authentic cuisines from all over the world.
Oxford is a small city: it’s easy to get where you want to go, with most of the city readily accessible on foot.
Cycling is a popular option: Oxford is known as a ‘cycling city’, and many students find it to be a great way to get around and there are cycle shops all over the city.
There are also over 650 electric-scooters available to hire across the city.
Oxford is within easy reach of London's airports, with excellent coach links to Heathrow and Gatwick international airports .
London itself is under an hour away by train, or you can take one of the bus services that run 24 hours a day.
The city is also well connected to the rest of the UK by road and rail.
Bus routes cover the entire greater Oxford area, making it quick and affordable to get around within the city, as well as out to the many nearby towns and villages, or further afield.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/student-life/sport-arts-and-societies:
Take advantage of the University's excellent facilities for sport and fitness, music, art and theatre.
Get involved with Oxford's many student groups and societies, which cover music, literature, sport, politics, drama, arts, media, faiths, cultural groups, science, opportunities for volunteering and much more.
The annual Freshers’ Fair at the start of the autumn term is an ideal opportunity to find out what's available.
">Video of Get Active at Oxford
Oxford's tradition of academic excellence has historically gone hand in hand with a reputation for sporting excellence.
During our history, 283 Oxford students have taken place in the Olympic games, winning 167 medals - of which 84 were gold.
But you don't have to be an Olympian to make the most of our world-class sports and fitness facilities—we cater for everyone.
We have about 85 University sports clubs and over 200 college clubs, dedicated to a wide range of sports, from archery to ice hockey, and from canoeing to kendo.
The Active at Oxford campaign encourages Oxford students to enjoy the benefits of sport and fitness, whether it’s casual or competitive, with plenty of taster sessions to let you try out new things.
Oxford University Sport on Iffley Road is a state-of-the-art multi-sports complex.
It is home to a gym, dojo, rowing tank, football pitches and tennis courts, as well as the competition-standard Rosenblatt Pool.
You can even run on Oxford’s famous running track, where Sir Roger Bannister became the first person to run a mile under four minutes.
The newly-opened Acer Nethercott Sports Centre has a four-court sports hall with a state-of-the-art LED-lined floor.
We also have outstanding sports facilities across Oxford’s colleges, from squash courts and fitness suites to boathouses, cricket pitches and lively clubhouses.
Oxford has been a home of the arts for centuries, and our graduate students are fully involved in all aspects.
You’ll find dozens of student music societies across the University and its colleges, covering an incredible range of music styles.
The Oxford University Music Society (OUMS) encourages students to get involved with music, and coordinates ensembles like the Oxford University Brass Band.
There are also two major student orchestras of professional standard, the Oxford University Orchestra and the Oxford Philharmonic Orchestra.
Oxford’s world-famous choirs include the chapel choirs of Magdalen, New College and Christ Church, and chamber choirs such as the Schola Cantorum .
Many colleges also have their own orchestras, bands and choirs, with dedicated music rooms and practice spaces.
Oxford has a thriving drama scene.
With about 30 shows performed each term, there are plenty of chances to be involved.
The Oxford University Dramatic Society (OUDS) is large and very popular.
OUDS posts auditions, crew calls and other opportunities throughout the year, and its annual calendar includes Cuppers , an intercollegiate drama competition; the New Writing Festival , a competition for playwrights; and the OUDS National Tour , when a production directed, performed and produced by students is showcased in venues across the UK, culminating in a run at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival.
Whether you’re interested in writing, editing, design, photography or broadcasting, there’s a wealth of opportunities for you at Oxford.
Oxford is home to the UK’s only independent student publishing house, and students are creating new media channels all the time.
Oxford has two weekly student-run newspapers, Cherwell and The Oxford Student (‘The OxStu’).
Students also publish a number of fascinating and beautiful magazines, including the Oxford Review of Books (ORB), Oxford’s literary and cultural review; The Oxford Scientist , the science magazine; and ISIS , the UK’s oldest independent student magazine for journalism, fiction and design.
Oxide is the student union’s radio station, broadcast online throughout term time.
There are plenty of opportunities to learn or practice art with student societies.
The Oxford Art Club (OxArt) organises art events (oil painting, sketching in museums, etc) every week.
There is also the Edgar Wind Society for History of Art, the Oxford University Photography Society, and the Oxford University Film Foundation which helps finance student film projects.
The Ruskin School of Art organises life drawing lessons each term, which are discounted for Oxford students.
There are also art communities within colleges, in which regular events are organised.
If you’re looking for somewhere to contribute your art, you might want to consider submitting your work to a society or magazine, or becoming a part of their creative team.
The Oxford Student, Cherwell and the ISIS magazine all rely on talented creative teams that you can join.
There are also often art competitions during term, held by various societies or magazines.
As a graduate student you’ll automatically become a member of the Oxford University Student Union (Oxford SU) .
Oxford SU is student-led, democratic and independent, and aims to support and represent Oxford students.
You can get involved in Oxford SU’s campaigns, contribute to its media channels and take advantage of its resources and services.
Each year a Vice-President for Graduates is elected to act as a spokesperson for Oxford’s graduate student body.
Your college will have a Middle Common Room (MCR), Graduate Common Room (GCR) or Common Room (in graduate colleges).
This is the hub of graduate life within every college, and it refers both to a physical space for socialising within college and also to an active graduate community.
Each MCR elects a committee every year, dedicated to organising social events in college and representing student views to the college and Oxford SU.
Oxford has over 400 student societies , dedicated to everything from drones and fintech to classical drama and ukulele playing.
There are also many political, national, regional and religious societies—these are a great way to meet others who share your interests, background, views or beliefs.
And if you think there’s a gap to be filled, you can also set up your own society and apply for funding from the University to help you get started.
The Oxford Union is the world’s most famous debating society.
Not to be confused with the Student Union, it is part of the University but run by students, and it has an outstanding reputation for bringing internationally known guests and speakers to Oxford.
Each term, the Union publishes a Term Card with a calendar of upcoming speakers, debates and other events.
If you choose to join the Union as a member, you can take advantage of the Union’s social spaces and beautiful Old Library.
Run by students, the Oxford Hub is the centre for student volunteering in Oxford.
As a charity that aims to empower people to make positive change in the local community, it offers practical volunteering and skilled placements, incubates projects and runs a wide range of events.
It works in collaboration with over 40 student groups and projects for social change, and supports over 600 students to volunteer in the Oxford community.
Raise and Give (RAG) , Oxford SU's fundraising organisation, offers a way for students to raise money for charity while having fun, with events such as charity football tournaments, comedy nights and the first ever University-wide charity ball.
You can find out more about volunteering in Oxford on the Oxford Students website.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/student-life/support-and-welfare:
The University is committed to providing a safe, supportive environment for all students.
The Welfare and Wellbeing information for Oxford Students offers a more comprehensive view of the welfare services and resources available to our students.
Student health is primarily handled within colleges: your college will have a National Health Service (NHS) doctor and nurse.
The University can also help you register with a different doctor, find an optician or dentist and get vaccinations.
If you’re a disabled student, have long-term physical or mental health condition, or a specific learning difficulty (SpLD) such as dyslexia, we’re committed to providing the support you need throughout your time at Oxford.
Our Disability Advisory Service (DAS) is a team of specialist advisors who can give you information and advice on relevant issues, and help facilitate your access to study.
We'd really encourage you to tell the University about your disability as early as possible, so that you can benefit from the full range of support available; but you can get in touch with DAS at any time during your studies.
For more information about disclosing your disability when you apply, visit our advice for advice for disabled applicants .
The University Counselling Service is free, confidential and staffed by fully-trained counsellors and psychotherapists.
The team helps people from many different backgrounds and cultures, and a wide range of personal issues.
You can receive individual or group counselling, or participate in a range of topical workshops to help you build essential skills to respond to the demands of life at university.
Open every night during term-time (8pm–8am), Nightline is an independent and confidential listening, information and support service, run by students for students.
You can contact Nightline by phone, Skype or IM.
The University takes harassment and sexual violence very seriously.
The Sexual Harassment and Violence Support Service is for any Oxford student affected by sexual harassment or violence, whether currently or in the past.
The support and advice provided by the service's specialist advisors is tailored to your individual needs.
Every college and department also has at least one male and one female harassment adviser.
Student peer supporters are available in colleges and departments to talk with you informally about any issues or problems you might be experiencing.
At any one time there are around 350 peer supporters, who are carefully selected and trained to take up this role, and receive ongoing support and supervision from the University Counselling Service.
The Student Union (Oxford SU) runs an independent advice and information service for Oxford University students.
The service offers a space for you to talk in confidence and information on a range of issues you might encounter during your time at Oxford.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/student-life/families-and-childcare:
Oxford University offers a comprehensive range of childcare options and provision for families, as well as support to help you settle in and get the most out of your studies.
Below you can find an introduction to just some of the services on offer.
For more detailed information, visit the Oxford Students website and the Oxford University Student Union (Oxford SU) website.
Advice and support are available for international students who would like to bring family members with them as dependants when they come to Oxford: visit our family visas page.
The UK Council of International Student Affairs (UKCISA) website also offers detailed advice about bringing family members with you to the UK.
The University's Childcare Services provide high quality, accessible and affordable early-years care for the children of University students and staff.
There are five University nurseries, and University of Oxford places are also available in eight community nurseries located throughout Oxford.
Five colleges have their own nurseries: Balliol, St John’s, St Anne's, Somerville and Wolfson.
These are separate from the University’s Childcare Services, with priority given to members of the college.
Oxford also has outstanding schools.
The Oxford Welcome Service and Oxfordshire County Council have more information about childcare and schooling in Oxford.
There is some financial support available from the UK government for parents who are in full-time education.
You can find out more information on the gov.uk benefits webpages .
Information and advice on living costs for students with dependants is available on our living costs page.
The University has a range of accommodation options for full-time graduate students, including accommodation for couples and families.
There are a range of rooms, flats and houses in and around Oxford, on sites owned and managed by the University.
The University's Student Maternity, Paternity and Adoption Leave Policy is available on the student parents page and gives details of the arrangements for students who are about to have or adopt a child.
There are particular requirements for graduate research students applying for parental leave, including the forms required and timings, and notifying your college, supervisor and director of graduate study.
The University's Newcomers' Club is a volunteer-run organisation, aiming to help newly-arrived spouses or partners of graduate students and other members of the University to settle in, by organising a regular programme of social events in Oxford.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/choosing-a-course:
Oxford offers a wide range of graduate-level courses from postgraduate certificates to doctorates.
Our courses are challenging and intensive, and our approach to graduate study emphasises your ability to work independently, while supported by a world-class academic community.
At Oxford, we welcome and encourage applications from promising students of all backgrounds and nationalities.
Requirements vary between our graduate courses, but in general our academic departments look for students with the ability, enthusiasm, curiosity and commitment needed to pursue higher-level study here.
Both home and international students are highly valued and integral members of our diverse community, with international students making up around two thirds of our graduate students.
We look for the most promising students to join our outstanding departments and faculties and to participate in the interdisciplinary communities of our colleges.
As a graduate student at Oxford you will work alongside your peers and leading experts in your field, who will inspire and support you throughout your time here.
You will have access to world-class facilities and resources in your subject, and you will be encouraged to get involved in the intellectual life of your department and the wider academic community.
When considering what course to choose, you must think seriously about the skills, knowledge and interests you have acquired over time and how you want graduate study to take them forward.
It is important to focus your efforts as much as possible in order to submit one really strong, focused application.
Do you want more research experience?
Do you want to refine or change your subject focus?
How long do you want to study for?
Do you want to study part-time?
This option would enable you to work or continue with other commitments alongside your study.
You may also want to consider your funding options , as this could inform your decision.
A one-year master’s course will usually be a very intensive way to learn, focusing on a specific area that you want to work in or research.
In some fields, more particularly in the humanities and social sciences, you will find one-year master’s which are focused specifically around gaining research skills in preparation for doctoral study.
You will also find two-year courses, where the first year focuses more on teaching through lectures and seminars and the second year focuses on more advanced research.
A typical full-time doctoral-level course (eg a DPhil, Oxford's name for a PhD) lasts between three and four years.
Many courses are also available on a part-time basis.
The vast majority of our taught courses begin in Michaelmas term (October) and you will not be able to commence your study at a later point unless that is explicitly indicated on the relevant course page.
For more information about Oxford's academic terms, visit our Dates of term page.
If you would like to start a research course at the beginning of a term other than Michaelmas (October), contact the academic department directly.
We strongly encourage you to focus your energy and attention on submitting the best possible application to a single course.
While you are technically able to submit two applications for taught courses (eg master’s-level courses) per cycle or three applications per cycle if one of them is for a research course (eg DPhil), it is advised that you put your efforts into submitting one very strong application.
There is nothing to stop you applying for courses of each type in the same year, but each application should demonstrate your commitment to undertaking that particular course and type of study.
It is important to consider that, while for some research courses you will require a master’s degree, for others an undergraduate degree is sufficient.
You should refer to the course pages to check specific requirements.
We have provided descriptions below of the different types of graduate-level taught courses that are available to study at Oxford.
These are also known as postgraduate taught or PGT courses.
Students studying full-time are normally required to undertake one year (three terms) of study followed by an examination.
The exact composition will vary according to the course, but will usually involve a range of core and optional course elements often including research methods and the submission of a dissertation (usually of around 10,000–15,000 words).
Study is supported by seminars and lectures.
Assessment may be by coursework as well as by written examination papers and dissertation.
Some course elements may be common with Master of Philosophy (MPhil) courses and it is possible in some cases to form the foundation of an application to either the related MPhil or DPhil.
These degrees are generally offered in Science or Social Science subjects and typically require students to undertake one year of full-time study, although sometimes part-time options are available.
The exact composition of the degree will vary according to the course, but will often comprise a range of core and optional modules, supported by teaching in the form of lectures and seminars.
Assessment is by a combination of course assignments (in many cases including a dissertation of around 10,000–15,000 words) and sometimes but more rarely, written examinations.
This course is of a higher standing than the Master of Studies (MSt) and full-time study normally lasts for two years (six terms).
In the first year, some of the course elements may be common with the MSt and MSc and at its end candidates may be required to pass a qualifying test before continuing.
Some MPhils are organised so that the first year is taught and the second is predominantly research based.
In the second year, students are expected to complete a substantial dissertation (usually up to 30,000 words) and to sit written examinations.
Although the majority of MPhils are recognised as taught courses, the MPhil in Law and the MPhil in Socio-Legal Research are formally classed as research courses and are both one year in duration.
The University offers a range of other master’s-level degrees:
Please see the relevant course page for further details about each course.
A number of one-year (three-term) as well as some part time (1 – 3 years) diplomas and certificates are available to graduate students.
These include the Postgraduate Certificate in Education, which is a teacher training course for graduates that is more commonly referred to as the PGCE.
If you choose a taught course, you'll study your chosen subject area at an advanced level usually leading to one of the master’s-level qualifications listed above.
Your course will consist of a range of core and optional modules and you will be assigned an academic supervisor who will be on hand to offer advice and support, and to help guide your programme of study.
A full-time taught course typically lasts 9 – 12 months, but some MPhils take 2 years to complete.
A part-time taught course typically lasts 2 – 4 years.
Your course will consist of a range of core and optional modules.
Assessment methods will vary by course, and may include coursework, assignments, written examinations, a dissertation, etc.
Refer to the course pages for more information.
We have provided descriptions below of the different types of research courses that are available to study at Oxford.
These are also known as postgraduate research or PGR courses.
Oxford’s main doctoral research degree is called a DPhil, which is our name for a PhD.
DPhil comes from the English phrase Doctor of Philosophy and PhD comes from the Latin phrase philosophiae doctor.
A DPhil usually takes between three and four years to complete (4-8 years if studying part-time, which is an option within some departments), but you should check the relevant course page for the expected length.
Working closely with an academic supervisor or supervisory team who will oversee your studies, you will focus on a specific research project to produce a thesis that represents a significant and substantial piece of work.
You will also be expected to engage with additional training to support your professional development.
You will be assessed on the basis of this thesis and an oral examination called a viva voce.
After completing a DPhil, research students frequently pursue academic careers or careers requiring advanced research skills.
During the course of the DPhil degree at Oxford you will need to successfully meet two different milestones:
Transfer of Status: Most DPhil students are initially admitted to the status of Probationer Research Student (PRS).
Within a maximum of six terms as a PRS student (and normally by the fourth term) you will be expected to apply for transfer of status from Probationer Research Student to DPhil status.
In some subjects, you might be required to successfully complete one or more master’s papers during your first year before you can apply to transfer to DPhil status.
Confirmation of Status: Students who are successful at transfer will also be expected to apply for and gain confirmation of DPhil status, normally within nine terms of admission, to show that your work continues to be on track.
Both milestones normally involve an interview with two assessors (other than your supervisor) and therefore provide important experience for the final oral examination.
If you're studying on a full-time basis, you will be expected to submit your thesis after three or, at most, four years from the date of admission.
Doctoral training programmes are four-year courses providing structured training and research experience in the first year, and a research project leading to a DPhil in subsequent years.
These programmes are referred to as Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs) and Doctoral Training Partnerships or Programmes (DTPs).
They usually involve other partners, including other universities and industrial partners.
This degree is awarded on the basis of a submitted thesis and is available in some subject areas that also offer a DPhil.
Please see the individual course pages in this section for specific information.
The examiners must be satisfied that the thesis shows competence in investigating the chosen topic and that the results have been presented in a lucid and scholarly manner.
A satisfactory oral examination is also required.
Students will initially hold the status of Probationer Research Student and will be expected to apply to transfer to MSc status during the first year of their research.
Combined Master of Science (MSc) and Doctor of Philosophy (DPhil) programmes are four-year courses that comprise a one-year taught MSc by coursework followed by a three-year research project leading to a DPhil.
These course arrangements are often referred to as 1+3 programmes.
By applying for a 1+3 programme, your application will automatically be considered for both the one-year taught MSc and the DPhil.
Progression to the DPhil requires successful completion of the MSc.
These programmes are special course arrangements and the constituent MSc and DPhil elements may not be offered separately as stand-alone courses.
Alongside expert supervision and a supportive academic community in which to work, you'll receive specialist training in research skills.
You'll have access to a fantastic range of resources and opportunities to help you make the most of your time at Oxford and boost your employability.
A typical full-time doctoral-level course (eg a DPhil) lasts between three and four years.
Many courses are also available on a part-time basis and typically last between four and eight years.
For almost all of our research courses, you will be assessed on the basis of a thesis and an oral examination called a viva voce.
Please refer to this website which provides the definitive and up-to-date source of information on any graduate courses offered by the University.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/courses-by-department:
The University of Oxford has four academic divisions, made up of individual departments, faculties or other centres, and a Department for Continuing Education, which offers courses across a range of subject areas.
Related subject areas offered by the Department for Continuing Education are shown below this list.
Please select at least one division
Related subject areas will be shown when a division is selected.
Oxford is at the forefront of international research in the humanities, with five subject areas judged to have the highest volume of world-leading 4*-rated research in the UK in the 2021 Research Excellence Framework.
The Humanities Division comprises around a third of the University's community of staff and students, offering taught graduate and research degrees in a very wide range of subjects.
Humanities departments and faculties attract outstanding students, academics and researchers from across the globe.
As a result, graduate students have the opportunity to undertake their studies and research in a stimulating, challenging and highly rewarding intellectual environment.
Some of these subjects are relatively new, and cross the boundaries of traditional disciplines.
Others are areas of academic research that have long been recognised as of central importance, and they include some that few other universities are still able to support.
In each case, the objective is to sustain and to teach the highest standards of scholarship.
The dynamism of intellectual activity is in evidence in the wide variety of open lectures and seminars, in addition to those for specific courses.
View all courses View taught courses View research courses
You will have access to an immense range of research material, including digital resources.
These resources are provided through Oxford’s impressive library system, based on the central Bodleian libraries, through the work produced by the University's research projects, and through the rich and diverse holdings of its museums.
In addition to materials and support focused on conveying subject-specific knowledge, there are a wide range of facilities aimed at the personal and professional development of students, strengthening their existing skills and developing new skills, and preparing them for careers after they have completed their studies.
">Video of Studying the Humanities
The Mathematical, Physical and Life Sciences (MPLS) Division is home to some of the most creative and innovative scientific thinkers and leaders working in academe.
Senior researchers in MPLS at Oxford have been awarded some of the most significant scientific honours and the division has a strong tradition of attracting and nurturing the very best early career researchers who regularly secure prestigious fellowships.
The division’s nine departments and interdisciplinary doctoral training centre span the full spectrum of the mathematical, computational, physical, engineering and life sciences, and undertake both fundamental research and cutting-edge applied work.
The division's four year doctoral training programmes are preparing a new generation of scientists to undertake quantitative and predictive research at the interface between the mathematical and physical, and the biological and medical sciences.
They were established with funding from the following UK Research Councils:
The disciplines within the MPLS Division regularly appear at the highest levels in world rankings and have been evaluated as conducting world-leading and internationally excellent research in UK research assessments.
We have extensive links with other leading universities, research institutes, public sector bodies, business and industry, in the UK and abroad.
Teaching is a major part of the division’s activities and a number of highly rated taught master’s courses are offered.
For research students, a range of courses are available and the division is developing further cross-disciplinary provision for key research skills.
Research at the interface between disciplines is strongly encouraged, both within the mathematical, life and physical sciences, and within the medical and environmental sciences.
MPLS graduates are much in demand from academia, business and industry, government and the professions.
">Video of Graduate Mathematical, Physical and Life Sciences at Oxford
The Medical Sciences Division houses some of the strongest biomedical research in the world; Oxford is repeatedly placed first in clinical, pre-clinical and health in the Times Higher Education World University Rankings.
The Medical Sciences Division’s departments and institutes in Oxford and overseas are home to some of the strongest biomedical research in the world, regularly appearing at the highest levels in world rankings and rated world-leading and internationally excellent.
The Medical Sciences Division’s 2,000 researchers cover a wide range of research, from atomic-resolution molecular structural biology to epidemiology as applied to very large populations.
This enables students to work on virtually any biomedical problem.
The division provides a stimulating and challenging environment for more than 2,000 talented graduate students with excellent new facilities and close personal supervision by world-class researchers.
To complement research supervision and course teaching there is a wide range of facilities aimed at the personal and professional development of students, strengthening their existing skills and developing new skills.
The course titles and department names do not fully reflect the wide range of research projects available.
You can also use the Medical Sciences Graduate School website to identify opportunities and courses based on your area of interest.
You are also encouraged to look at webpages hosted by the different departments and institutes of the division for a further sense of the opportunities on offer.
All candidates who apply by the December or January deadline shown on the course page are automatically considered for full funding awards, irrespective of their nationality.
The majority of students accepted by the Medical Sciences Division secure full funding, covering both fees and living expenses.
The Social Sciences Division comprises the largest grouping of social sciences in the UK, home to fourteen outstanding departments , tackling some of the major challenges facing humanity in the 21st century.
Oxford's Social Sciences departments are committed to research that develops a greater understanding of all aspects of our complex society, including cybercrime, economic and political turmoil, environmental change, inequality, legal systems, movement of people and social development.
This research is disseminated through a wide range of innovative graduate courses, many of which are recognised by the UK Research Councils and provide preparation for doctoral work, as well as being discrete programmes of advanced study in their own right; others provide a professional qualification.
The purpose-built Centre for Advanced Studies in the Social Sciences, adjacent to the Faculty of Law houses the Department of Economics, the Department of Politics and International Relations and the Bodleian Social Science Library, providing exceptional facilities for master's and research students.
All are rooted in research of international standing and students have access to a well-resourced, active research environment.
The division also includes the Saïd Business School and the Blavatnik School of Government.
As one of the major providers of social science research in the UK, the University, in collaboration with Brunel University and the Open University, hosts the Grand Union Doctoral Training Partnership , one of fifteen Doctoral Training Partnerships accredited by the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) as part of a Doctoral Training Network.
ESRC DTP studentships are available in a wide variety of training pathways in the social sciences, for both DPhil and master's-to-DPhil programmes.
">Video of Graduate Social Sciences at Oxford
The need for new learning opportunities throughout life is now recognised throughout society.
An intensive, initial period of higher education is not always enough in times of rapid social, economic and technological change.
The Department for Continuing Education is known worldwide as a leading provider of extended learning for professional and personal development.
The department provides high-quality, flexible, part-time graduate education, tailored for adults.
Students can undertake graduate-level certificates, diplomas and taught master’s degrees in a wide range of subjects.
Increasing numbers of courses are delivered in mixed mode, combining intensive periods of residence in Oxford with tutored online study.
The department recruits adult students of all ages on a regional, national and international level.
Many courses are offered jointly with other academic departments around the University.
Courses are offered in the following areas:
All postgraduate students on the department's courses are members of its Graduate School.
The Graduate School aims to provide a stimulating and enriching environment for learning and research.
It also fosters intellectual and social interaction between students coming from different disciplines and professions.
Interdisciplinary research seminars, training opportunities and other events are offered by the Graduate School in support of this goal.
All masters' and DPhil applicants are considered for Clarendon Scholarships .
The department is committed to seeking scholarship support for other students wherever possible.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/open-days-and-events:
Academic departments hold events for prospective graduate students throughout the year, often between October and December.
Our admissions staff represent the University at events both in the UK and internationally.
This page is updated throughout the year as new events are scheduled.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/changes-to-courses:
The Graduate Admissions pages of the University of Oxford website are designed for those applying for graduate study at the University of Oxford during the 2024-25 academic year.
The University will seek to deliver each course in accordance with the description set out in the Course Information Sheet sent to applicants with their offer of a place.
Course webpages at the A-Z of courses page give further details.
However, there may be situations in which it is desirable or necessary for the University to make changes in course provision, either before or after you commence your course.
This policy should be read together with the Student Terms and Conditions .
Where desirable or necessary changes are to be made, the University will offer, where possible, appropriate and alternative options for affected students.
In exceptional circumstances the University may need to make such a change after you have accepted your place.
This will not normally happen less than 3 months before the first day of the Full Term in which you start your course.
On-course students will be consulted about any proposed material course change (except changes which are solely for their benefit) which would affect the part of the course which they have already started studying.
Where a pandemic, epidemic or local health emergency necessitating measures to reduce risk of infection or illness arises the University may make reasonable changes to comply with government or local authority regulations or guidance, and/or its own health and safety advice and/or to ensure the health and safety of staff, students and third parties and/or to respond to consequential staffing or resource constraints.
If it makes any such changes the University will inform you and will also provide broadly equivalent teaching and assessment services, and key University services by alternative means if reasonably possible, although the manner of delivery may need to change.
Examples of possible changes under this paragraph include:
Subject to this Policy, and to the Student Terms and Conditions , no refunds, discounts, damages or waivers of course fees or other charges will be payable to you where changes or delays have resulted from, been caused by, or are in relation to a pandemic, epidemic or local health emergency necessitating measures to reduce risk of infection or illness.
Supervisory allocations for students may change during the course of study for reasons which might include illness, sabbatical leave, maternity leave, change in employment or other changes connected to a pandemic, epidemic or local health emergency.
If this occurs the department will be responsible for ensuring that a new supervisor is appointed as soon as possible (either on a temporary or permanent basis) and the student will be kept informed as soon as reasonably possible.
At the time this Policy was last updated (Michaelmas 2024) the University, in line with national guidance, is providing in-person teaching and access to services, and is not requiring measures, or making changes, as a result of COVID-19.
However, if renewed measures need to be taken in future to reduce risk of infection from COVID-19 (eg as a result of a new disease variant, a rise in cases and/or reintroduction of national restrictions) then COVID-19 would then be treated as a pandemic under the provisions of this Policy and the Student Terms and Conditions.
Definitions of some terms used above:
'Local Health Emergency' includes, but is not limited to: (a) a threat to health which is not infective in nature (eg radiation or poisoning); or (b) an outbreak of infective illness which has not yet been classed as an epidemic or pandemic because cases are confined to a part of the UK (including Oxford).
Full Term means the University’s dates for Michaelmas (Autumn), Hilary (Spring) and Trinity (Summer) terms which are advertised in the Oxford Gazette.
A HSI sets out standards of behaviour required of students during any pandemic, epidemic or local health emergency.
‘HSI’ includes any University code, policy or guidance issued in such circumstances.
If a HSI is in force students must comply with it as a condition of in-person access to teaching and facilities, and may be disciplined for non-compliance.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/colleges/introducing-colleges:
The college system is one of the many distinctive and special features of student life at Oxford.
In the context of graduate admissions, ‘college’ and ‘colleges’ refers to all 43 of the University’s colleges, including those designated as societies and permanent private halls.
All graduate students belong to a department or faculty and a college, except those taking non-matriculated courses.
Supervision and teaching will be provided by your academic department, so no matter which college you belong to, this won't limit your access to potential supervisors or teaching staff; your course content is the same.
Oxford’s colleges are small, multidisciplinary communities.
Each one has students, academic staff and administrative staff.
Most colleges offer meals, libraries, accommodation, sports, events and other opportunities to enrich your Oxford experience.
Our 43 colleges have much in common, but each has its own character and history.
Thirty six colleges are independent and self-governing, having a charter approved by the Privy Council, under which it is governed by a Head of House, elected and appointed by the governing body directly.
The governing body comprises a number of Fellows, most of whom also hold University posts.
The three societies – Kellogg College , Reuben College and St Cross College – operate very much like the other colleges but are considered departments of the University rather than independent colleges because, unlike the others, they do not have a royal charter.
One of the main differences is that the governing body recommends a president, who is then appointed by Council.
The four permanent private halls (PPHs) – Blackfriars , Campion Hall , Regent's Park College and Wycliffe Hall – were founded by different Christian denominations and still retain their religious character.
In addition to the 43 colleges that are part of the University, two external colleges – Ripon College Cuddesdon and St Stephen's House – accept students for several courses offered by the Faculty of Theology and Religion .
Your college can provide support, facilities and membership of a friendly and stimulating academic community.
Within your college, you’ll have the opportunity to meet academics and fellow students from around the world, and often from a broad range of subjects.
You might find yourself debating your work in college seminars, over meals in the dining hall or in college accommodation late into the evening.
Your college will give you the chance to establish a new circle of friends quickly, and get involved with a wide range of events and activities.
As a graduate student you’ll belong to your college’s Middle Common Room (MCR) or Graduate Common Room (GCR), which is a student organisation as well as a physical room in college.
Each college MCR usually elects a committee, who aim to foster a sense of community by organising social activities, promoting student well-being and representing student voices.
All colleges provide library and IT facilities, welfare support, and sports and social events.
Colleges often have accommodation available for rent by their graduate students, although most aren't able to guarantee accommodation.
You aren’t obliged to make use of college facilities, but many graduate students find that their college greatly enriches their time at Oxford in a variety of ways.
Your college can be a valuable source of support.
Although your academic studies will be directed by your department or faculty, your college will have a Tutor for Graduates or Senior Tutor who has general oversight of all graduate members of the college.
Each graduate student also has a college adviser, a senior member of the college’s staff who can offer support and advice.
Select a college to see the courses on offer
Select from the list:
‘College’ and ‘colleges’ refers to all 43 of the University’s colleges, including those designated as societies and permanent private halls (PPHs).

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/colleges/choosing-college:
When you make your graduate application, you can express a preference for one of our colleges, or ask us to find a college for you.
To learn more about a particular college, visit our college listing page.
Many of our graduate applicants express a college preference on their application form, but around 40% of applicants don’t give a college preference, and instead ask us to find them a college place.
Whatever you decide, it won’t affect how the academic department assesses your application and whether they decide to make you an offer.
If your department makes you an offer of a place, you’re guaranteed a college place as well.
If you do choose a college, you may receive an offer from a college that is different to the one you stated as your preference.
This may be because the college has filled its places or already has sufficient numbers of applicants from your subject area.
Learn more about stating a college preference on your application form in our Application Guide.
For more information about the college allocation process and getting a college place, visit our decision timeline .
Oxford's colleges are multidisciplinary, but not all courses may be offered at each college.
Each course page lists the colleges that will accept applications for that course on the ‘College preference’ tab.
Alternatively, each college page lists the courses that are offered.
The vast majority of college scholarships don't require you to select that college as your preference.
For these scholarships, each college will consider all eligible applicants who apply by the deadline, regardless of any college preference.
If you're selected for one of these scholarships, we'll move your application to the relevant college.
Oxford scholarships worth over £1,000, including college scholarships, are included in our Fees, Funding and Scholarship Search .
You can use this search to identify the small number of college scholarships where an additional application is required.
As a graduate student, your course structure, content, teaching and supervision will be arranged by your University department, and will be the same regardless of which college you belong to.
Oxford’s colleges have a lot in common.
However, each college is unique, and this rich variety is part of what makes the Oxford experience so special.
Most graduate students quickly settle in and enjoy their college, even if they chose another college as their preference.
If you think that you might like to indicate a college preference, the individual college pages on this website will give you key information about each one.
Every college also has a dedicated website where you can find out more about the college’s community, features and facilities.
If you’re applying for a research course, please note that it isn’t necessary to be at the same college as your proposed supervisor.
When you're selecting your preferred college from the options available for your course, you might want to consider some of these factors:

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/colleges/college-listing:
Graduate study at Oxford is a distinctive experience: all graduate students are members of both a department or faculty in their subject area and a multidisciplinary college.
Oxford’s colleges, including those designated as societies and permanent private halls (PPHs), are small academic communities where graduate students meet academics and fellow students in a range of subjects from around the world.
Several colleges are dedicated to graduate students only and provide uniquely tailored college support for over one third of our graduate population.
The colleges are initially shown in a random order to encourage you to explore the whole range of Oxford colleges, rather than only those which appear at the start of an alphabetical list.
If you're already interested in a particular college, you can also:
The following colleges accept students for the indicated courses, which are offered by the Faculty of Theology and Religion .
Ripon College Cuddesdon is a Church of England theological college located in the village of Cuddesdon, which is under 10 miles from the centre of Oxford.
Although the college is not part of the University, it accepts graduate students for the following courses:
St Stephen’s House is an Anglican Theological College, located in central Oxford.
Although the college is no longer part of the University (it was Permanent Private Hall from 2003 until 2023), it continues to accepts graduate students for the following courses:

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/fees-and-funding:
Graduate study at Oxford is a rewarding experience, but also a significant investment.
We seek applications from students of the very highest calibre, irrespective of background or personal circumstances.
This section provides information about the wide variety of funding opportunities available at Oxford and helps you to calculate your living costs.
Find out more about funding your studies including scholarships, Research Councils and studentships.
Guidance on the external funding and resources that might be available to you.
Information about UK master’s loans, US loans and other loan schemes.
Detailed information on course fees and other fees.
Calculate how much it will cost to live in Oxford.
Information on Oxford’s Financial Declaration process.
There are many opportunities to fund your study at Oxford, many of which also offer further benefits and opportunities to enrich your experience of graduate life.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/fees-and-funding/oxford-funding:
Funding for graduate courses is competitive, but the University of Oxford offers more support than you might think.
For example, for the 2023-24 academic year, just over 45% of our new graduate students received full or partial funding from the University or other funders.
This page provides more information on the range of funding the University offers through scholarships, Research Councils and studentships.
When undertaking your funding search you should consider the following:
For the 2025-26 academic year, the University expects to be able to offer over 1,000 full or partial graduate scholarships for new students.
Scholarships are usually awarded on the basis of academic excellence and potential, and will cover some or all of your course fees and/or provide a grant for living costs for your period of fee liability .
The eligibility criteria for different scholarships vary, with some being open to the majority of new graduate students and others restricted by particular characteristics, for example by degree subject or country of ordinary residence.
Some scholarship schemes offer additional benefits like events to support scholars, or membership of a scholar community or leadership programme.
Specific information about scholarships and funding for applicants from under-represented groups is available in our Graduate access section.
For the majority of Oxford scholarships, all you need to do is submit your graduate application by the December or January deadline for your course.
There’s no separate scholarship application process or extra supporting documentation required for funding.
Based on the information supplied in your graduate application, you will be automatically considered for scholarships where you meet the eligibility criteria with most scholarships using academic merit and/or potential as the basis on which award decisions are made.
For more information please see the Standard scholarship selection terms .
To help identify those scholarships that require an additional application, use the Fees, funding and scholarships search and look at individual college websites.
The vast majority of college scholarships do not require you to select that particular college as your preference on the graduate application form.
They will consider all eligible applicants who apply by the relevant deadline.
If you are selected for a college scholarship, we will move your place to the relevant college.
Most Oxford scholarships are awarded between late February and June.
The approximate date by which decisions are expected to be made will normally be given in the scholarship information available from the A-Z of Scholarships .
A scholarship may be awarded either at the same time or after you are offered a place by your department.
It may be awarded either before or after you have been offered a college place.
The seven UK Research Councils are publicly funded bodies that support research and studentships across a range of subject areas.
High numbers of awards are received by our postgraduate students in recognition of the quality of the world-class research carried out at Oxford.
Some colleges also provide partnership awards linked to Research Council awards, details of which are available under College Partnership Awards.
UKRI award postgraduate studentships to both home and international students, including fees (up to that research council’s UK rate) and living stipend.
UKRI will normally limit the proportion of international students appointed each year through individual doctoral training programmes to 30% of the total.
Further information can be found on the UKRI website .
For full details about eligibility requirements and how to apply, please see links to the relevant council below.
The AHRC provides public funding in support of research into the arts and humanities, for approximately one quarter of the UK's research population.
Oxford participates in the Open-Oxford-Cambridge AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership, providing a number of scholarships each year across humanities subject areas between 2019 and 2024.
The January 2025 application deadline (for entry in 2025-26) will be the final year of the OOC AHRC DTP.
Information about applying for AHRC scholarships at Oxford can currently be found on the OOC DTP website .
The BBSRC supports the UK's world-leading position in bioscience.
It aims to promote and support high quality basic, strategic and applied research and postgraduate training relating to the understanding and exploitation of biological systems.
BBSRC studentship funding, including Industrial CASE studentship funding, will be awarded primarily through the Oxford Interdisciplinary Life and Environmental Landscape Award (pending approval).
Questions about BBSRC funding should currently be directed to the Oxford Interdisciplinary Bioscience DTP .
The EPSRC is the main UK government agency for funding research and training in engineering and the physical sciences.
Applicants for doctoral research with the EPSRC remit will automatically be considered for EPSRC Doctoral Landscape Award funding (pending approval).
In addition to these open eligibility awards, EPSRC funds a number of Centres for Doctoral Training at Oxford, which can also be found on the A-Z of courses page (use the search term 'iCASE' - these studentships are typically advertised slightly later, check in November to January for opportunities).
Questions about EPSRC funding should also be referred to the relevant department or CDT.
The ESRC is the UK’s largest organisation for funding research on social and economic issues.
The University, in collaboration with Brunel University and the Open University, hosts the Grand Union Doctoral Training Partnership.
ESRC funding covers both full and part-time study and the DTP offers a variety of award structures and lengths, depending on prior training and course arrangements.
A Masters qualification is not a prerequisite for studying with the Grand Union DTP, all pathways have options for students without a Masters who are intending to carry out doctoral research.
In order to be considered for a Grand Union DTP ESRC studentship, you must select 'ESRC Grand Union DTP' in the University of Oxford Scholarships section of the University's graduate application form.
You must complete a Grand Union DTP Application Form (which can be found on the DTP website) and upload it, together with your graduate application form, by the relevant funding deadline for your course.
Full details can be found on the Grand Union DTP website .
Please ensure you have read all of the guidance available on the website before completing the Grant Union DTP Studentship Application Form.
Questions can be directed to the Grand Union DTP Office.
The MRC promotes research into all areas of medical and related science with the aims of improving the health and quality of life of the UK public and contributing to the wealth of the nation.
The University of Oxford receives a Doctoral Training Partnership Grant from the MRC from which studentships are created and awarded.
In order to be considered for  funding applications must be received by the December deadline (Tuesday 3 December 2024).
Certain MRC-funded units and centres receive a direct allocation of MRC Studentships; usually, all eligible applicants that apply by the December deadline are automatically considered for these awards.
In some cases, however, they are advertised separately by individual departments.
More information can be found on the Oxford MRC DTP page .
NERC is the UK's main agency for funding and managing research, training and knowledge exchange in the environmental sciences.
Their work covers the full range of atmospheric, earth, biological, terrestrial and aquatic science.
NERC funding at Oxford will be awarded primarily through the Interdisciplinary Life and Environmental Sciences Landscape Award (pending approval).
Questions about NERC funding should currently be directed to the Environmental Research DTP .
Oxford is also a member of the NERC-funded EcoWild CDT, which focuses on protecting the Earth’s vulnerable wetlands.
The STFC support, promote and coordinate research into spheres ranging from particle and nuclear physics to space, laser and materials science.
Opportunities for STFC funding at Oxford are advertised on the relevant department pages, accessible via the Departments A-Z page .
Questions about STFC funding should also be referred to the relevant department.
Research Councils College Partnership Awards are fully-funded Research Council scholarships which are partially funded by a college.
All Research Councils allow graduate studentship funding to be partnered with other sources of funding, thereby allowing universities to increase the number of studentships available.
The College Partnership Awards are only tenable at the college providing the funding.
There is no separate application process for the College Partnership Awards and all eligible graduate candidates who are awarded a Research Councils studentship will be considered.
We may move your application to a college offering a partnership award, even if this is not your preferred college (for applicants who have stated a preference on the graduate application form).
A studentship provides funding for postgraduate research students who are working on specific projects.
The funding is normally provided by an organisation such as a Research Council or through a combination of funds from an academic department, college or external body.
Funded studentships usually offer either full or fees-only financial support to pursue research for a named project or area of study.
Check your academic department’s website for details of any current studentship opportunities and how to apply.
There is a section in the online graduate application form where you will be able to enter the code(s), if required, for any studentships for which you wish to be considered.
If a code is required it will be provided on the relevant department's website.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/fees-and-funding/external-funding:
Alongside Oxford funding, there are many other funding options available.
This page aims to provide a summary of the resources and external funding that may be available to you.
A summary of external scholarships and search facilities is provided below.
These are managed by organisations external to Oxford, therefore various application processes and closing dates will apply.
If you have any questions, please contact the relevant organisation directly.
Alternative Guide to Postgraduate Funding - A database of funding opportunities from charities and voluntary organisations.
European Funding Guide - A search facility for scholarships and grants for European students.
Fundraising.How - A directory of articles about scholarships and funding opportunities for students from Scandinavia.
The Grants Register 2024 (Hard copy only) - Information on a variety of scholarships, fellowships and research grants, professional and vocational grants.
The University holds a reference copy and the British Council Office in your country may also keep a copy.
Oxford University Research Services - Offer a number of web-based resources for external research funding.
Please note that some services are only accessible to current Oxford students.
Research Professional - Most of the opportunities are for postdoctoral researchers and staff, but around 20% are for research students.
Scholarship Search - Aimed primarily at UK graduates, but there is also some information for international students.
Study UK - A search facility for scholarships and other financial support.
UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA ) - Provides advice about searching for funding.
Black Heart Foundation Scholarships provide partial funding opportunities for students in financial need.
Black Leaders in Cancer PhD Scholarship programme - Offers a fully funded 4 year DPhil studentship (non-clinical), aimed at students from Black heritage backgrounds persuing DPhil study in cancer-related fields.
Standard CRUK DPhil funding rates including stipend, research and UK home tuition fees.
Includes comprehensive programme of mentoring, career support, leadership training and networking led by the Windsor Fellowship and Black in Cancer.
Boehringer Ingelheim Fonds - Offers 2-3 year DPhil fellowships to undertake research in biomedicine, including a monthly stipend and support for participation in conferences.
British Federation of Women Graduates (BFWG ) - Awards of between £1,000 and £6,000 for outstanding academic excellence to women doctoral students at British universities.
Chevening Scholarships - Offered in over 150 countries and generally for one year master's courses.
They enable the potential leaders of tomorrow to develop strong links with the UK and with each other in a global network.
Colt Foundation Fellowships - Funding for 3 years to support high quality research projects in the field of occupational and environmental health at a UK institution.
Commonwealth Scholarship Commission - A number of scholarships for Commonwealth citizens to study in the UK.
Culham St Gabriel's Trust Masters Scholarship programme - Offers funding for teachers and others working in the field of religion and worldviews (RE) to take a relevant part-time Masters course.
Culham St Gabriel's Trust Doctoral Scholarship programme - Offers funding for teachers and others working in the field of Religion and Worldviews (RE) to undertake doctoral studies.
Ellison Scholarships - full funding for DPhil (PhD) study at the University of Oxford.
Successful candidates’ doctoral research will centre on a specific ongoing project at the Ellison Institute of Technology (EIT).
Selected scholars will collaborate with world-leading experts to solve real-world problems and address humanity’s biggest challenges through technology.
They will work on projects in at least one of four areas of scientific and technological innovation (health and medical science; food security and sustainable agriculture; climate change and clean energy; and government innovation and era of artificial intelligence).
Scholarship awards cover all fees for the duration of studies (tuition fees, programming, living and travel costs), the equivalent of a paid internship and the possibility of future funding for projects.
Candidates can apply for any DPhil course, with the application window for scholarships starting in 2025 open from August to September 2024.
All candidates should apply first to the scholarship programme through the EIT website .
For more information, please visit the Ellison Scholars website.
Selected candidates will be invited to apply independently to the University of Oxford and further information on this separate application process to the University will be published on the Graduate Admissions website in September.
Numerix Women in Finance Scholarship - Award of $20,000 USD available to females of any nationality, studying Finance in a graduate-level programme.
Funds for Women Graduates (FFWG ) - Offer grants for living expenses to female graduates in the final year of their DPhil study at a UK institution, and other awards such as emergency grants.
Google Europe Scholarship for Students with Disabilities - Support candidates with a disability who will be enrolled in a bachelor's, master's or DPhil course in a university in Europe and will be studying in computer science, computer engineering, informatics or a closely related technical field.
Joint Japan/World Bank Graduate Scholarships - Up to two years of master's study in a field related to development for applicants from a number of eligible developing countries.
JMK Women in Business Scholarships - Scholarships for women pursuing a business program with major field of specialisation in accounting, economics, finance, business management and other related areas at any university.
Linnean Society of London - Several awards and grants available in the study of biological sciences.
National Society of High School Scholars - Several academic scholarships and competitions annually to members (to join you must be a top academic achiever from high schools around the world).
Open Society Foundations - Offers grants, scholarships and fellowships throughout the year.
Rhodes Scholarship - A prestigious international scholarship programme, enabling outstanding young people from around the world to study at the University of Oxford.
Rotary Scholarship programme - Funds graduates to study overseas, students must be on a course that fits under one of Rotary’s six Areas of Focus: peace and conflict prevention/resolution; disease prevention and treatment; water and sanitation; maternal and child health; literacy and basic education; economic and community development.
Royal Geographical Society with IBG - Grants to support undergraduate, master's and research students undertaking geographical fieldwork projects.
Sir Richard Stapley Educational Trust - Grants of up to £1,250 for postgraduate students resident in the UK in any subject.
The Snowdon Trust Master's Scholarship - A small charity dedicated to supporting disabled students through masters programmes.
Offers awards of up to £30,000.
Thouron Award - Two years of support for graduates of the University of Pennsylvania to pursue any graduate course in the UK.
Four to six awards are usually available each year.
Vincent's Scholarships for Sport - Support for Oxford students from any country who, in addition to their academic capacity, are talented sportspeople.
Aker Scholarships - Awards to Norwegian nationals or those who have been resident in Norway for several years, and who have applied for a Master’s of DPhil course.
Anglo-Danish Society Scholarships - Partial scholarships for postgraduate studies/research with no restrictions on subject.
Open to individuals with a degree from a Danish university wishing to study in the UK.
Club Financiero Espanol Scholarships - Partial scholarships to Spanish nationals who have been offered a place to study for a Social Sciences degree at Oxford.
Director IB Henrik’s Fund - Supports individuals who have a bachelor's degree from a Danish university.
Fundación del Pino - Offers a number of scholarships to Spanish students for postgraduate study at international universities.
Fundação para a Ciência e a Tecnologia (FCT) Scholarship - Sponsored by the Portuguese  Ministry for Science, Technology and Higher Education.
It is available for Portuguese Nationals who are studying (fully or partially) in Portugal or abroad.
Henry Green Scholarship fund - Grants for students who are undertaking a full-time course at either Oxford, Cambridge or London University who live in Leyton or Leytonstone and are in need.
Applicants must have attended one of the eligible schools in Leyton or Leytonstone.
Jansons Scholarships - Funding for Norwegian students to finance study abroad for up to one year.
Lånekassen - The Norwegian student loan and grant-awarding body which supports Norwegian students to study overseas.
Leverhulme Trade Charities Trust - grants for current students in financial need who have a parent or spouse or are employed themselves, as a commercial traveller, pharmacist or grocer.
Marius Jakulis Jason Foundation - Interested in supporting talented academics, entrepreneurs and students who want to contribute to the economic growth of Lithuania.
MoD Enhanced Learning Credits scheme - Financial support to members of the UK armed forces, once a certain level of service has been accumulated.
Onassis Foundation Scholarship - open to candidates with Greek citizenship and/or nationality, or to candidates who have graduated from a Greek university and hold a High School Diploma from Greece, regardless of their citizenship, provided that they have a legal residence permit in Greece.
Candidates of Greek descent are also eligible to apply.
Sainsbury Management Fellowship - provides funding for UK nationals, currently living in the UK with a first degree in engineering, allied technology or science discipline to undertake a full time MBA at selected business schools.
Scholarship fund for Swiss-resident students - Swiss Friends of Oxford University (SFOU) has established a scholarship fund to support Swiss-resident students studying at Oxford University.
SFOU offers a limited number of grants of CHF 250 – CHF 500 to eligible students.
St Matthias Trust - scholarships of £10,000 towards study/research that will contribute to the of work of the Church of England
The James Pantyfedwen Foundation - Provides grants of up to £5000 for postgraduate students from Wales.
Tuk-Tam is a Bulgarian NGO aiming to support young Bulgarians studying abroad by proving up to 10,000 BGN for a Masters.
Beit Trust Scholarships - Offered each year for graduate studies or research to graduates who are domiciled in and nationals of Malawi, Zambia or Zimbabwe.
Commonwealth Scholarships via the Canon Collins Trust - Offers fully-funded scholarships for a Master's or PhD programme in the UK in six specific areas, including promoting global prosperity.
Open to nationals or residents of Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique or Zambia.
Gordon Memorial College Trust Fund - Promotes educational development in South Sudan and Sudan.
The Trust supports students studying for a graduate course in the UK, who intend to return to South Sudan or Sudan at the end of their studies.
Qalaa Holdings Scholarship Foundation - Awards to Egyptian nationals residing in Egypt studying towards a Master's of DPhil and who intend to return to Egypt upon graduation.
Agency for Science, Technology and Research (A*STAR) - Scholarships for students from Singapore studying in the fields of biomedical sciences, and science and engineering, at selected universities overseas, including Oxford.
Bangkok Bank - Scholarships to Thai students pursuing a masters’ program.
Charles Wallace Trusts - For nationals of Bangladesh, Burma/Myanmar, India and Pakistan to assist them in obtaining education and professional development in the UK.
Daiwa Anglo–Japanese Foundation - Awards grants to individuals, institutions and organisations to promote links between the UK and Japan.
Great Britain–China Educational Trust - Awards of up to £3,500 for Chinese students studying in the UK.
Grants are normally for DPhil students.
Grants for UK students making research visits to China are also available.
J.N.
Tata Endowment awards - Predominantly loan scholarships, however selected scholars may also qualify for a gift award.
Applicants should be Indian nationals and graduates of a recognised Indian university.
Kwok Scholarships - Provide full funding for up to two exceptional students from Hong Kong and/or mainland China who intend to return to Hong Kong or China on completion of their studies to develop a career in public service for the benefit of the Hong Kong community and/or betterment of China.
Scholarships available for both undergraduate and graduate studies in specific fields.
Lebanese International Finance Executives (LIFE) scholarships - Support for tuition fees to talented Lebanese students - or those of Lebanese descent - with financial needs, to pursue their academic aspirations in the field of finance, business, STEM, corporate law or liberal arts.
Provides a unique combination of financial support and mentorship by a LIFE Senior Member.
Lee Kuan Yew Scholarships - Awarded to Singaporean citizens studying a postgraduate course to develop their potential as leaders in their field.
Narotam Sekhsaria Scholarships - Interest-free scholarship loans for Indian students below the age of 30 pursuing postgraduate studies.
Oxford and Cambridge Society of India Scholarships - Partial funding for undergraduate, second undergraduate and graduate students who are ordinarily resident in India, for study and research in any subject offered at the Universities of Cambridge and Oxford.
Regeneration Center of Thailand - A scholarship of $1,000 USD to the winner of an essay contest.
Undergraduate and graduate students of ASEAN (Association of South East Asian Nations) descent are eligible to apply.
The ASEAN member states include: Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, Indonesia, Lao PDR, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.
Sakaguchi International Scholarship Foundation - A partial scholarship for Japanese DPhil students who aspire to work on the international stage in future.
Singapore Ministry of Defence - Several scholarships for Singaporean students who wish to enter the military upon graduation.
Singapore Public Service Commission - Number of scholarships to students who are Singaporean citizens who wish to enter different areas of public service upon graduation.
Tan Kah Kee Foundation - Postgraduate scholarships for Singaporean citizens pursuing a full-time PhD or Master's degrees.
Banking & Financial Services Law Association - Offering a scholarship to citizens and permanent residents of Australia & New Zealand studying post-graduate banking, financial services or insolvency law, or a related field of law.
General Sir John Monash Foundation - Scholarships for graduate study at a non-Australian university.
Governor Phillip Scholarship - Offers full funding towards postgraduate degrees at some of the world’s leading universities, including fees, accommodation and board.
Gowrie Scholarships - Managed by the Australian National University, open to Australian citizens who are graduates of an Australian university.
Preference is given to past and present members of the Australian Armed Forces and their lineal descendants.
Oxford Australia Scholarship Fund - Open to Australian nationals who are ordinarily resident in Australia and who have not previously studied outside of Australia.
Applicants must apply directly to the Oxford Australia Scholarship Committee and have already applied to Oxford University by the relevant deadline for their course.
The Oxford Australia Scholarship Fund also offers a number of separate awards in partnership with the Clarendon Fund .
These joint scholarships cover course fees and provide a grant for living costs.
Awards are made for the full duration of fee liability for the agreed course.
Only applicants selected for a Clarendon Fund Scholarship will be considered for these partnership awards.
Roberta Sykes Scholarship - Provides financial assistance to Indigenous Australians undertaking postgraduate studies overseas.
University of Sydney Travelling Scholarships - Fund University of Sydney graduates to undertake study at overseas institutions.
Air Force Institute of Technology - Offers funding to US Air Force staff so that they are able to complete further education.
Becas MOB - Scholarships for Mexican students to study one-year master's courses in the UK.
Canadian Bureau for International Education - Scholarships for Canadian citizens and residents who wish to study abroad.
Canadian Centennial Scholarship Fund - Awards of £5,000 for Canadian currently enrolled in postgraduate programmes in the UK of at least two years duration.
CONACyT - Scholarships for Mexican students wishing to undertake graduate study abroad.
Fulbright Awards - Offered to US graduate students across a number of disciplines.
FUNED - Financial assistance for Mexican students to study full-time master's courses at top universities.
Law Foundation of British Columbia - Graduate fellowships of around $17,000 CAD on an annual basis to students pursuing full-time graduate studies in law or a law-related area.
Applicants must either be a resident of British Columbia, a graduate of a British Columbia law school or a member of the British Columbia Bar.
Marshall Scholarships - Fully funded scholarships to finance Americans of high ability to study for a graduate degree in the UK.
Up to 50 scholars are selected each year in any field of study.
Mexican Embassy - Publishes information on scholarships open to Mexican students, including funding offered by the Mexican Academy of Sciences and the Fund for Human Resources Development (Bank of Mexico).
Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC) - Offers a number of graduate scholarships and postdoctoral fellowships for tenure at universities outside Canada.
Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (SSHRC ) - Graduate scholarships for citizens and permanent residents of Canada who wish to undertake study in the field of humanities or social sciences.
The WL Mackenzie King Memorial Scholarships - Open to graduates of any Canadian university for full-time graduate studies in Canada or elsewhere, in any field.
Fundação Estudar - A non-profit organization that invests in the development of high-potential young people who will transform Brazil through work in various sectors.
Estudar offers a variety of educational programs in three main areas: Inspiration, Leadership and Career.
Instituto Ling - Partial scholarships to Brazilians wishing to study for an MBA or MPA at a leading US or European institution.
Grant levels vary.
The University is currently able to process applications for US Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) funding (also known as the GI Bill or Post 9/11 Bill) and can complete and submit certificates of enrolment to the VA.
The University can certify enrolment for most degree-bearing courses which are matriculated, i.e.
you are a full member of the University.
Please be aware that it can take a long time to receive VA funding so you should not rely on VA benefits to fund a course deposit, or fees and living expenses early on in your course.
Am I eligible?
Before you start, please read the information about using VA benefits at foreign schools on the VA's website.
The VA’s eligibility requirements are different for foreign schools, compared with those in the US.
In order to use your VA benefits at Oxford, you must meet the same basic eligibility requirements for studying in the US and:
Non-degree-bearing courses, such as undergraduate and graduate certificates and diplomas are not eligible.
Courses involving online study or distance learning are also ineligible.
If you are unsure whether your course is eligible for VA benefits at Oxford, please get in touch with the US Loans team .
How to apply
Step 1 - In order to apply for VA funding at Oxford you must first make an application directly to the VA once you have received an offer of a place to study on your chosen course.
Please visit the US Department of Veterans Affairs website and consult their information for foreign schools .
We recommend that you check the current benefit rates to get an idea of the benefits you might be eligible for at Oxford.
Once you have applied, the VA will send you a Certificate of Eligibility.
Step 2 – Email the US loans team with a copy of your Certificate of Eligibility.
Step 3 - Complete our VA funding form to ensure we have the information we need to certify your enrolment to the VA.
Step 4 – If your course has not yet been approved by the VA, the University will submit a request to the VA on your behalf.
You can check whether your course has been approved using the VA's GI Bill Comparison Tool .
Please be aware that it can take several months to receive a response to course approval requests.
If your course is not yet approved, please complete the above steps as soon as possible to minimise delays to any funding you are eligible to receive.
Step 5 – Once you have enrolled on your course, the US loans team will certify your enrolment to the VA.
Step 6 – If you are eligible to receive a Monthly Housing Allowance (MHA), the VA requires that you verify your enrolment each month to confirm that you remain enrolled on the same course.
Information on how to do this can be found on the Enrollment Verification page of the VA’s website.
How much will I receive?
The VA do not share their calculations with us so we cannot predict how much you will receive.
You should be able to get a good idea by checking the current benefit rates , but please be aware that the amount you will receive depends on your individual benefit entitlement and enrolment details.
If you are eligible for education benefits under the Post-9/11 GI Bill, you should be aware that tuition benefits at foreign schools are capped at $29,920.95 per year (in 2025-26).
Depending on your benefit entitlement and course fees, the VA will pay the University up to this capped amount.
If your annual course fee exceeds this amount, you will be responsible for paying the difference.
You may also be eligible to receive a Monthly Housing Allowance (MHA) and book stipend.
The amount you will receive depends on your benefit entitlement and whether you are enrolled full time or part time.
Most part time courses at Oxford are half time or less and therefore you will not usually be eligible to receive MHA if you are studying part time.
Receiving VA funding
If your course is already approved by the VA, the University generally expects to receive the funds around 4-5 weeks after certifying your enrolment.
The funds will be paid to the University and transferred to the relevant college or department for the payment of fees.
Any remainder will be remitted to you.
You may consider using other funding, such as a US federal or private education loan to cover the financial declaration and expenses early on in your course, and then use the VA funding to repay the loan when it arrives.
VA also offers the Edith Nourse Rogers STEM Scholarship for students training in high demand STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math) fields.
Recipients will receive up to nine months of additional Post-9/11 GI Bill entitlement or a maximum of $30,000.
Eligible Post-9/11 GI Bill students must have either exhausted their entitlement or will exhaust their entitlement within 180 days.
For additional information, please visit the Rogers STEM Scholarship website.
The US Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) requires schools to review prior credit, experience, and training, and grant credit as appropriate towards a VA student’s current programme.
This policy applies to new students, students transferring from another institution to the University of Oxford, and current students transferring programmes within the University of Oxford.
Please contact the US loans team if you have any questions about the information given below.
Entry requirements
Admissions policies and procedures apply to new students.
The links below provide an overview of the University of Oxford's general admissions policies and procedures:
In order to take up the offer of a place to study at Oxford, all applicants must meet the qualification requirements of their course.
Students should check the course page for individual programme admission requirements.
If your qualifications are not from the UK, please also refer to the information on international qualifications for undergraduates and international qualifications for graduate students for guidance on the grades and qualifications that are considered equivalent to the University’s minimum entry requirements.
Providing evidence of prior credit
Undergraduate applicants must provide details about their education as part of their UCAS application.
Applicants must list all qualifications along with the grades that have already been achieved and any standardised test scores.
Applicants also need to list any educational qualifications that they are currently working towards.
Those applying for a second undergraduate degree will need to send a transcript from their first degree separately to the college that is considering their application.
For full information, please refer to the undergraduate guide for applicants .
Graduate applicants should provide details of all qualifications and periods of study undertaken at university level, including qualifications that have not yet been completed, on the ‘Qualifications’ tab of the graduate application form.
Non-UK qualifications do not need to be converted to UK degree classification, and an official statement of comparability from UK ENIC is not required.
For each qualification entered, an official transcript should be uploaded .
For full information, please refer to the graduate application guide .
Prior Credit Review Process
Undergraduate applications are assessed by academic tutors, usually from a college.
Tutors make decisions based on all aspects of your application, including your interview, any admissions tests or written work required for your course, your prior academic attainment and predicted grades, your personal statement, the academic reference.
Graduate applications are academically assessed against the entry requirements for the course and relatively in terms of the quality of previous academic excellence and future potential in comparison with the applications received from other candidates for that course.
The academic department that offers the course you apply to will assess the academic quality and suitability of your application.
After this is complete, the department will send you formal notification of their decision by email.
Transfers and applying whilst studying at another University
Oxford University does not normally accept transfer students.
If you wish to follow an undergraduate course or graduate taught course at Oxford, you would need to start the course from the beginning and follow the normal applications process for the course.
The arrangements for student course transfers details the process by which a current student, either at Oxford or at another institution, moves from one course to another, or from one mode of study to another.
Students already in receipt of an undergraduate degree, and wishing to study a further undergraduate degree may apply for ‘senior status’ at Oxford, allowing them to be admitted directly to the Final Honour School for the degree.
Students should follow the normal applications process for the course selecting Year 2 as their point of entry.
Postgraduate research (PGR) students will only be considered for transfer to Oxford from another institution as a result of their main supervisor relocating to Oxford to take up an academic position.
Students wishing to transfer are required to complete a graduate application form.
An application to Education Committee is also required to permit work undertaken and time spent at the previous institution to count towards the requirements for the relevant award (‘antedated admission’).
Permission may also be requested from Education Committee to waive transfer of status requirements, if appropriate.
All applications must have the support of the relevant department and of a college willing to take the student.
Written records of previous education
The University retains a written record of students’ previous qualifications and Oxford academic history within the student system in accordance with the Student Privacy Policy .
Your rights under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 2018 are outlined on the University's Data protection page .
Any employment during study must adhere to the University's Paid work guidelines .
Within these guidelines, the following may be possible:
Ad-hoc work can sometimes be found by advertising your skills locally as a tutor, translator or proof-reader.
Part-time or seasonal work for the University and colleges may also be available, for example, invigilating examinations, administrative work or working in one of Oxford’s many libraries.
A good source of part-time and temporary vacancies in Oxford is the Career Service’s online resource, CareerConnect .
There are also several local job websites that provide details of vacancies in Oxford.
If you have recent work experience, it may be worth contacting one of your past or present employers to find out whether they would be able to offer you support.
You could also consider approaching a potential employer of the future.
Investigate companies or organisations working in your research area, particularly those with corporate social responsibility (CSR) aims and target them.
Think creatively and strategically about other bodies you may be able to proactively approach for funding.
They might not necessarily advertise scholarships or bursaries, but could you make a convincing case for them to support you?
Are there any foundations in your local or home community that would be willing to support you?
When approaching an employer or other potential funding body, make sure you consider:
In addition to the above, think about what you can offer a potential sponsor.
Could you undertake some research for them, give them free publicity, give a lecture/presentation, write a report etc?

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/fees-and-funding/loans:
Loan funding is dependent on your country of residence, as it is often linked to government or state-run schemes.
Loans available for UK students studying eligible full-time and part-time master’s courses.
Loans for English and Welsh students studying eligible full-time and part-time doctoral courses.
Oxford is eligible to certify both federal and private student loan applications for US citizens.
There are a small number of education-specific loan schemes available to graduate students at Oxford.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/fees-and-funding/fees-and-other-charges:
These pages provide information and advice to prospective graduate students about fees.
This includes details of course fees, and information about your fee status and fee liability.
Information about course fees, fee status, classification of fee status, fee liability, deposits, payments and refunds.
The University and college continuation charges are paid by graduate research students who have reached the end of their standard period of fee liability.
Information for Home or Republic of Ireland students who have already completed a previous programme of study at an equivalent level.
Information on fees for visiting, recognised and matriculated non-award students at Oxford.
Information on charges that are made, that are not covered by course fees or when University course fees are no longer payable.
Information about changes to fees and charges in future years.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/fees-and-funding/living-costs:
These costs are based on a single, full-time graduate student, with no dependants, living in Oxford.
As part of the Financial Declaration process, you will need to confirm that you are willing and able to fund your living expenses at least at the lower amount in the range shown above, and any remaining years of your course after 2025-26 (see note below on 'What might my likely living costs be in future years?').
Please note that the University sets its maintenance stipend level for graduate scholarships at the competitive RCUK minimum doctoral stipend rate, which as a guide equates to £19,237 for the 2024-25 academic year.
These likely food costs would enable you to eat in your college for each of your three meals each day and there is provision for some dining out but food costs may be lower or higher, depending on your personal choice about where and what you eat.
These likely accommodation costs include related bills (for example, utilities such as electricity and heating) and are based on the latest available college accommodation figures, with an inflationary increase applied.
Private sector rental costs and utility bills may be subject to higher inflationary increases.
You can find more information about renting in the private sector through the Oxford Student Pad and University Accommodation Office .
Further advice on planning a budget is available on our Managing your budget page .
You may need to make additional provision for costs such as travel to and from Oxford and fieldwork, or for international students the visa and health surcharge costs (see below).
Any additional course-related costs will be outlined in the individual graduate course pages, accessible via the Courses page.
These costs are not included in the figures above.
Students with dependants (for example, a partner or child) will also need to consider separate costs related to their family.
More information and advice is available in the Living costs for dependants section of this page.
If you need a student visa you will need to budget for the cost of the student visa and also the immigration health surcharge (see the student visa webpages for more information on the costings).
The immigration health surcharge is paid upfront when you apply for your student visa and for the entire duration of your course, and any additional time the Home Office adds to your course end date for the visa expiry date.
For example, this will be a 1.5 year health surcharge payment for a 12 month Master's (4 months added to course end date by the Home Office), 5 year health surcharge payment for a DPhil (4 year allowance for course length and 6 months added for viva and corrections , plus 4 months added by the Home Office).
It also needs to be paid for each dependant, if any are able to accompany you to the UK.
The living costs above are based on single, full-time students living in Oxford.
While it may be the case that, as a part-time student, you will not be based in Oxford during your studies, you will still need to cover your cost of living on a full-time basis.
If this applies to you, you should calculate your living costs to be sure that you have sufficient funding to meet these costs for the duration of your course.
In particular, part-time students who are not based in Oxford will need to calculate travel and accommodation costs carefully.
Please note that living costs outside Oxford may be different from those shown above.
To help in planning your living costs, we asked a number of our graduate students to share their experiences on the cost of living and studying in Oxford.
You can read their stories in the Living costs profiles section of this page.
The costs quoted in the Living costs for 2025-26 section of this page are for single students.
If you are planning to bring family members or other dependants to Oxford, you will need to budget for additional costs.
Please see our Visas for your family page for further details on whether you can bring dependants, the associated visa costs, and funds you may be required to show to demonstrate you are able to support your dependants.
When considering your budget, please take into account the following information:
There is some University accommodation available for couples and families.
The Accommodation Office's Rents page provides details of the relevant costs.
Local websites will also give some idea of what you can expect to pay in the private sector.
Please check whether any utility bills are included in your rent, and consider how the size of your property and the number of people living there will affect your bills.
A student living with non-students, whether they are family members or not, may need to pay council tax.
More information is available on the Gov.uk website and Oxford City Council 's website gives further information specifically for Oxford residents.
Self-catering for a family can reduce the cost of food per person.
Comparing food prices at some major supermarkets may help you plan and there are various price comparison websites which will assist you in doing this.
Childcare in Oxford is likely to be expensive and there may be high demand for places.
For more information about the University's subsidised nurseries, see the Childcare Services page.
Some UK government and limited University support may be available for (mainly UK) student parents.
You can find out more about free early learning opportunities on the Gov.uk website.
Once children are of school age (the September after they turn four in Oxfordshire), they can attend a state school at no cost.
If you require a visa to study at Oxford, please see the Student visa page for information about health costs relating to you and your dependants.
Please consider expenditure you may incur on other items such as clothes, books and entertainment for your dependants.
In working out the income that will be available to you, you may also want to consider the following:
Below are a range of case studies from current students at Oxford showing how their living costs vary.
I live in a single en-suite college room (with a double bed!) in a house with 10 other students.
I have a few meals in college every term to make the most of my allowance (included in the college accommodation fee), but otherwise I cook with my housemates as it’s much cheaper.
I bought stationery and a laptop at the start of my degree and haven’t had to spend much since, as I borrow books from libraries instead of buying them.
Most of my social and sport activities are free, but I go to London or visit friends every weekend.
My main and regular expenses include food shops, train tickets and phone contract, with occasional additional costs such as social outings (and sometimes a ball after exams - start saving up early if you want to go, they can be pretty expensive!).
I am currently living in North Oxford in college owned couples accommodation with my girlfriend.
We share a one bedroom flat, which is small and quite basic but good value for such a lovely part of Oxford.
One of the best things is that bills are included in the rent, and parking for two cars is available outside the flat.
Living close to the city centre and my department is great as it means I can cycle to work in less than 10 minutes, so I don’t spend any money on commuting.
As we enjoy cooking ourselves we rarely spend money eating at college other than for the odd formal and guest night dinner.
I live out of college in a house with four other people.
Usually I cook for myself, but sometimes we share meals, and if I've got time I like to have friends over and cook for a crowd.
My college's MCR put on lots of events that are free to go to and I'll go to formal hall probably three or four times a term, and a couple of bar nights, as well as socials with my lab group.
I have enough to travel home or visit friends most weekends easily, and to buy presents or buy new clothes without living beyond my means.
I live in a shared house that is quite far from the city centre, and usually eat at home, though I like to eat out with friends a few times a week.
My social life is quite busy as I like to meet friends at some point each day, and this often means going out somewhere and spending some money.
I like to buy clothes sometimes, and I spend quite a bit of money on groceries and household supplies, though this was a more significant cost when we first moved in.
I don’t have much extra expenditure for my studies or for travel.
I live in an en-suite college room and share a kitchen with three more students.
I work as Assistant Junior Dean at my college and because of this my accommodation is free of charge.
Being a DPhil student I spend most of the year in Oxford.
I usually cook in the flat or go for meals to college.
On occasions I eat out.
My social life is somewhat active and I like to go to the movies, concerts, theatre and to have coffee and catch up with friends.
I try to attend free events around University or take advantage of student discounts.
This year I’ve had to invest some money in equipment for fieldwork and data analysis, for example a voice recorder, some software licenses and a laptop.
I often commute by train or bus to do interviews outside of Oxford for my research.
I’ve also spent some money on sports equipment and club memberships.
I go to Colombia, my home country, once a year, usually during Christmas break.
I am a self-funded student living in en-suite university accommodation.
I cook for myself at home most of the time to keep costs down.
When I eat out, I look for restaurants that offer student discounts (top tip: always ask the restaurant if they offer student discounts!).
But I also enjoy having a fancy dinner on a special occasion e.g.
birthdays and have been able to afford this.
When I was coming to Oxford, I did not include social expenses in my budget – such as joining clubs that involve trips and fees, as well as simply socialising with people (e.g.
going to pubs, cafes, and formal dinners).
To finance these expenses, I was able to find some low-commitment part-time jobs that fit within the university’s paid work guidelines.
Moreover, cooking and hosting a dinner at home, rather than eating out, has helped me and my friends save a lot of money.
Studying in college where I can pick up free coffee and tea instead of buying it also helps keep everyday costs lower.
As an international student I fund my studies through a combination of partial scholarships, US federal loans and some part-time work in my field of expertise and for the Oxford SU.
I was additionally awarded a small one-off stipend by my college specifically for travel expenses related to my course.
To budget for my living costs I use a banking app which texts me after each transactions and sends me regular updates on my expenditure - these texts greatly help in monitoring my expenses and what the trajectory of them is.
I also separate my money into two accounts, with a set amount for spending each week, to avoid accidentally overspending.
I live out of college in a privately-rented flat, as my partner lives with me and so external accommodation better meets our needs.
When I came to Oxford I was unaware we would have to pay Council Tax as my partner is not a student, which adds to our outgoings.
Incoming students should consider these kinds of additional costs when looking at their housing options - Oxford SU provide a living out guide that can help you know where to start.
I cook the vast majority of my meals at home, and shop at a budget supermarket, which has made all the difference and saved hundreds of pounds over the term compared to eating out (it’s much healthier too!).
With the money saved in this way I enjoy pub nights or eating out with friends a couple of times a week.
I have a membership to the Oxford Union, which I was bought for me as a gift, and am a member of a local football group which costs a few pounds per week.
My student experience has been a bit different to many, as I live with my husband and two children in Oxford, rather than in a college.
We cook most of our own meals at home, as we’re catering for the whole family, but I do enjoy going to college formals from time to time as these are a great way to get to know the college community.
I took advantage of a university nursery place to help balance our childcare needs with my DPhil, as places are prioritised for the children of students.
There are lots of great free activities and facilities on offer in Oxford, and many are family-friendly, for example the University museums, Botanic Gardens and University Parks.
There are also lots of community parks and playgrounds - Cutteslowe Park and Florence Park are particular favourites of my family!

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/fees-and-funding/financial-declaration:
If you receive an offer of a place, your college (or, for some courses, your department) will require you to complete a Financial Declaration form in order to meet your financial condition of admission.
This aims to ensure that you are fully aware of the expected fees and living costs associated with your chosen course of study at Oxford.
It is your opportunity to consider very carefully the financial commitment you are entering into and to take full responsibility for it.
If you cannot pay your fees and living costs, you will not normally be able to continue your studies.
When you complete your Financial Declaration, you will be asked to:
University and college scholarships are almost always awarded during the application process before you join the University.
It is vital that you do not rely on being able to obtain such scholarship funding once you start your course.
The University recognises that some graduate students will want to undertake a limited amount of paid work during their studies, whether as part of their academic development (eg teaching and demonstrating) or to help to support themselves financially.
The University has Paid work guidelines which you must read.
The guidelines aim to ensure that any paid work undertaken does not adversely affect your success in your studies or your ability to complete your course on time.
In addition, some graduates will have prescribed limits on how many hours of paid work they can undertake, for example, graduates funded by research councils and some other scholarships, and those graduates with student visas.
Individual colleges may also have guidelines.
You should be aware that demand for part-time, paid work in Oxford often exceeds the amount of paid work available, whether or not it is of an academic nature.
Therefore, when planning how to finance your studies and when completing your Financial Declaration, you should not rely on the availability of paid work to fund your fees and living costs.
The living costs set out on the Financial Declaration form do not include specific costs which may be related to some courses of study, such as field trips and consumables.
You should consult the individual course pages , to see whether any such costs are likely to apply to you.
You will need to cover any course-related costs in addition to the living cost amounts set out on the Financial Declaration form.
You may incur other additional costs if you need a student visa or to travel internationally between your home and Oxford.
On your Financial Declaration form, course fees and living costs for future years are calculated using the most recently available rates and include an estimated inflationary increase year-on-year.
Increases to both fees and living costs should be expected annually.
If your source(s) of financial support are not in GB pounds (£), your financial planning should allow for variations in the currency exchange rate.
The living costs set out on the Financial Declaration form are for a single person on a full-time course; you will need to plan carefully how you will fund any dependants whom you plan to bring to Oxford with you.
Please review the Living costs for dependants information for advice on the likely costs which might be incurred by any of your dependants (eg a partner or child), who are also living in Oxford.
It is your responsibility to ensure that you have enough funds to meet the living costs of your whole family.
In particular, please note that childcare costs can be high.
If your application is successful, you will be sent an offer letter from the department.
When you accept this offer you will enter into your contract with the University.
The offer letter will be accompanied by the University’s Terms and Conditions and a Course Information Sheet and will contain a link to the Student Handbook.
You should read these documents carefully before you accept your offer as they will set out the content of the contract you will be entering into with the University.
A copy of the University Terms and Conditions is available for reference only on the Your offer and contact page.
When you accept your offer and enter into  your contract with the University, you will be entering into a legal obligation to pay the fees and charges due from you to the University.
A failure to pay fees when due may lead to your access to University premises and facilities being suspended.
Your offer letter will state that you are entitled to cancel your acceptance of a place at the University for any reason within a period of fourteen days beginning on the day after the day on which the department receives notification of your acceptance of the offer.
You may also need to sign a student contract with your college once you have fulfilled the conditions of your offer of study.
You will be advised whether or not this is the case.
The college student contract includes the legal obligation to pay the fees and charges due from you to your college.
A failure to pay fees and charges when due may lead to the imposition of disciplinary measures by your college, which may include suspension or expulsion, and you may be excluded from college premises and domestic services.
Information about fees and living costs for graduate applicants is provided on the individual graduate course pages, accessible via the Courses page.
The Fees and funding pages provide information and advice about fees and funding at Oxford and explain what course fees cover.
The Living costs page also gives likely living costs for graduate study for single, full-time students who are based in Oxford (using a minimum-maximum range, to account for differing lifestyle choices), explains what living costs you will need to budget for and helps you to consider other costs (eg the cost of dependants and set-up costs) that you may incur.
This information is provided to ensure that you are fully aware of the expected fees and likely living costs associated with your chosen course of study at Oxford.
The standard period for which you will be liable to pay course fees is usually the same as the standard length of your course.
If you complete the standard period of course fee liability and remain on course beyond this period, the University will levy a continuation charge.
Further information is available on the Fee liability and Continuation charge pages.
Your college may also levy a continuation charge, which will be detailed on your initial offer letter from the college and on the Continuation charge page.
Your college (or, for some courses, your department) will ask you to complete a Financial Declaration form once you have been offered a place.
The Financial Declaration will normally be required to be submitted between 30th June and 31st July.
You should return the form to the point of contact listed on the form.
This is a necessary step in order for your University contract to be issued to you.
If you require a visa to study at Oxford, you can only apply once you have met all the conditions in your University and college offer letters, and once your offer to study becomes unconditional.
Submitting the Financial Declaration form is an important part of the process of meeting your financial conditions for both your College and University offers (as the University condition is met once the College or Department is satisfied).
Please note that the evidence you will need to supply for your visa application may be different from the financial information that you use to complete the Financial Declaration form.
More information about applying for your visa is available on the Visa and immigration page.
You need to submit copies of documentation detailing any scholarships, loans, savings or other funding which you will use to meet your course fees in Year 1 only of your course.
If your funding for your course fees for Year 1 is coming from multiple sources, you must provide relevant evidence for each source.
All supporting documentation should be provided in written English; where an original is not available in English, both the foreign language document and a translated copy are required.
Please convert all non-UK currency into GB pounds (£).
An official communication is required from the award sponsor, confirming the specific amount of funding that will be provided towards your Year 1 fees.
If a grant or loan is expected from parents or other persons, you should include a letter from them, accepting responsibility for meeting your Year 1 fee costs and confirming the specific amount and duration of the funding being provided.
This letter should be accompanied by supporting evidence from an employer or professional adviser, such as an accountant or lawyer, showing that sufficient funds are available and vouching for the ability and willingness to pay of the funder.
In exceptional circumstances where a statement from a professional adviser cannot be obtained, copies of bank statements showing a consistent level of available funding may be accepted, at the discretion of the body issuing the Financial Declaration.
If you are self-financing, you should arrange for similar statements and evidence to be sent.
Employment contracts relating to your period of study must be in accordance with the University's Paid work guidelines .
You should include a letter from your employer confirming both the length of your contract and that you will receive a regular salary payment that is at a sufficient level to support your Year 1 fees (a pay slip alone may not be acceptable).
For pension funds, you should include a letter from your pensions provider, or provider of similar support, stating both the amount and timing of the payments which will cover your Year 1 fees.
You should provide a letter from your Head of Department confirming the level of support provided by your department towards your Year 1 fees.
If the employment contract is shorter than the anticipated length of Year 1 of the course, the letter must confirm that the department will cover fees at the stipulated level if the contract is not renewed.
If department funding does not cover the whole of your Year 1 fees, other funding must be shown to be available in order to cover any shortfall.
In accordance with the University’s legal obligations, checks will be carried out during the offer stage to verify that your source of funding is compliant with UK and international legislation on sanctions (as detailed at https://www.gov.uk/guidance/uk-sanctions ) and may be carried out to ensure compliance with anti-money laundering legislation.
For this to occur, information included in your Financial Declaration Form which relates to your source of funding may be shared by the Department or College considering your Financial Declaration with the University’s Central Finance Division.
If the University and/or your College are not satisfied that your source of funding is compliant by the deadline set in your offer letter (or other deadline communicated to you) then your offers will, in most cases, have to be withdrawn on the grounds that you have not satisfied the University's and College's financial conditions.
You need to plan how you will fund the cost of fees for any years beyond Year 1 of your course, and your living costs, but you do not need to provide supporting documentation to show how you will meet these.
If you are a current Oxford student who has been accepted onto a new course of study, you will be asked to complete a new Financial Declaration form and will not be covered automatically by any previous form.
The Financial Declaration form is an integral part of the graduate admissions process.
Colleges may separately undertake rent assurance processes (eg credit control, deposits, payment of rent upfront, tenancy agreements) for students who apply for college accommodation and colleges may require you to provide evidence of your ability to pay for your college accommodation (if applicable).
Rent assurances are undertaken outside of the Financial Declaration process and are unrelated to the process of satisfying the conditions of an offer of admission.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/fees-and-funding/fees-funding-and-scholarship-search:
Find and compare the annual cost of studying and living at Oxford, as well as support that may be available to you through funding and scholarship opportunities within Oxford.
Start your search
The approximate date by which decisions are expected to be made will normally be given in the scholarship information available from the Scholarships A-Z listing .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/international-applicants:
Around two-thirds of Oxford's graduate students come from outside the UK.
We are always looking for the brightest students from all over the world to undertake graduate study here.
Watch our video to find out what it's like to study at Oxford as an international graduate student.
We're committed to welcoming the brightest students from all over the world.
Our guidance on making an application to Oxford as an international student.
Our guide to which grades and qualifications are considered equivalent to the University's entry requirements.
All students must be able to meet the University's requirements for English language proficiency.
On this page, you can find more information about visa requirements and the Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS).

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/international-applicants/community:
Oxford has a global student body and academic staff, and we're committed to attracting the brightest students from all over the world for graduate study.
Oxford is a truly international university.
More than half of our graduate students come from outside the UK: together, they represent over 160 different countries and territories.
You can find out more about our graduate student body on our student statistics page.
There is no ‘Oxford type’: our students come from all kinds of backgrounds, and all bring something unique.
We aim to make this a welcoming environment in which all of our students can thrive and reach their full potential.
For more information about applying to Oxford as an international student, take a look at our information for international applicants section.
We have a presence throughout the world unlike that of any other university.
You can find out more about Oxford’s global links on our International Oxford webpages.
Our research and collaborative links span virtually every country in the world.
We collaborate with the best research universities in the world through our alliances and networks, including the International Alliance of Research Universities (IARU), the Europeaum , the League of European Research Universities (LERU), the Oxford–Berlin Research Partnership and the Oxford-Princeton alliance.
Our researchers have created countless collaborations all over the world, from building instruments for planetary exploration with NASA to working with local botanists in the Andes to discover over 100 plants that are new to science.
While studying at Oxford, graduate students enjoy access to a range of international experiences.
Some of our courses offer students the chance to spend time abroad.
There are also a variety of exchanges, summer schools and other programs for study abroad on offer.
Travel grants are available to graduate students wishing to spend time overseas to conduct study or research as part of their degree.
If you'd like to learn a new language for research, study, or personal interest before a trip overseas, the Oxford University Language Centre is the language hub for Oxford students and staff.
The centre offers courses in 11 modern languages, including Arabic, Mandarin and Spanish, and resources in many more as well as an online Pre-Sessional English Course which is open to all international students preparing for graduate study at Oxford.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/international-applicants/advice-international-applicants:
All applicants follow the same application process.
We have no quotas or targets for international students – competition for our places is entirely open.
This section pulls together guidance that may be particularly relevant for international students.
The deadlines given on each course page apply to all applicants.
An explanation of our deadlines for graduate study in 2025-26 can be found in the Application Guide.
Every individual course page has an ‘Entry Requirements’ section, which states the course’s minimum degree requirement in UK terms and the US 4-point GPA.
If you have non-UK qualifications, you can check how these compare to the minimum entry requirements for your course using the guidance on our International Qualifications page.
If you're unsure whether your qualifications meet the minimum requirements, contact the academic department for advice.
You don't need to ‘convert’ your grades to the UK system when you apply.
The academic department assessing your application will determine how your academic background compares to the course's entry requirements.
For further information about how to enter your qualifications in the application form , visit the Application Guide.
If your first language is English and you have always been a resident and citizen of a majority English-speaking country recognised by UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI), or you are a current Oxford student applying for readmission, you do not need to demonstrate your level of English.
It is not essential to provide evidence at the time of applying, but you may need to demonstrate that you meet the language requirement for your course in order to take up a place at Oxford.
Each individual course page will show the level of English language proficiency required for the course: ‘Standard’ or ‘Higher’.
Further information about English language requirements can be found on our dedicated page.
The course fees for each course are shown on the 'Funding and costs' tab of the relevant course page .
You may also wish to read our general information about course fees and other costs in our Fees and Funding section.
You can use our fees, funding and scholarship search to get an estimate of your annual costs for living and studying in Oxford (course fees and living costs).
An offer of a place at Oxford does not automatically include a scholarship or other financial support.
You should start thinking as early as possible about how you intend to fund your studies.
You can find out more about sources of funding available to international students in our Fees and Funding section.
Use our fees, funding and scholarship search to find any Oxford scholarships and other funding sources within the University for which you may be eligible.
You may also wish to explore our guide to other funding sources , which includes links to external scholarships sorted by region.
There is information and help available for students who require a visa to study in the UK on the University's Student Immigration website.
Our guide to visa requirements for graduate study at Oxford provides advice about whether a visa is required and will help you to find relevant information on the Student Immigration website.
Some of our graduate courses in science, engineering, medicine and technology are included in the Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) scheme.
You can find out more about the ATAS scheme and which courses are likely to be included on our visa and immigration page.
International applicants complete the same application form as UK applicants.
This section contains guidance that may be particularly relevant for international students.
You can also find detailed guidance for completing each section of the application form in the Application Guide.
Please note : you must complete your application form yourself.
The University has no arrangements or relationships with agents, and you should not use an agency when preparing your application.
All of the information you need to apply for graduate study at Oxford is freely available on this website.
International students are required to submit the same supporting documents as UK students.
Check the ‘How to Apply’ section of your course page to make sure you are submitting everything required to make a complete application.
It is your responsibility to make sure we receive your documents in time, and that they meet the University's requirements.
Further information about requirements for supporting documents can be found in our Application Guide.
If your academic transcript is in a language other than English, you will need to submit:
If your transcript is not in English, you should allow time to obtain a translation before the deadline to which you are applying.
Find out more about how to submit official transcripts as part of your application in our Application Guide.
References must be in English, unless:
References, and any accompanying translations, must be submitted by the referee directly, not the applicant.
For further information about the University's requirements for references , visit our Application Guide.
Documents you have written yourself, such as a research proposal or written work, must be in English unless your course page states otherwise or you have permission from the academic.
English translations by third parties are not acceptable unless explicitly permitted by the department.
These documents must be entirely your own work, except where clearly indicated.
For further information about the University's English language requirements , visit our Application Guide.
The application fee is different for taught and research course applications.
The application fee for applications to the following taught courses is £75: MPhil (except for the MPhil Socio-Legal Research and MPhil Law), MSc, MSt, PGDip, PGCert, MPhil + DPhil Economics.
The application fee for applications to the following research courses is £20: Centres for Doctoral Training (CDT), DPhil (including Neuroscience 1+3), MSc by Research, MPhil Socio-Legal Research, and MPhil Law
The fee should be paid in British pounds sterling (GBP) by credit or debit card.
If you require more information about paying the application fee , please consult our Application Guide.
Those resident in a low-income country may be eligible for the application fee to be waived.
More information about the application fee and this waiver scheme is available in the Application Guide.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/international-applicants/international-qualifications:
The University offers general guidance on the types of qualifications and grades from countries outside the UK that would usually be considered to meet its minimum entry requirements.
You should also make sure that you meet the entry requirements for the specific course you are applying to, as specified on each course page .
Academic departments may use other sources of information on grading standards, eg within your specific subject area, in setting both entry requirements and offer conditions for individual courses.
This guidance is intended as a source of information to help you decide whether your qualifications are likely to offer a suitable background for applying to a graduate course at Oxford, alongside the entry requirements for your specific course.
This overview information is offered for the countries from which the University receives a high number of applications and/or queries and does not cover every type of qualification and grading scale which may be considered an acceptable basis for a competitive application to Oxford.
There can also be significant complexity and variability within any national system of higher education which can affect how a particular grade is considered, eg differences in grading between institutions.
Please note that admissions to Oxford are very competitive and that meeting the minimum entry requirements will not guarantee an offer of a place.
The academic department will review your application on the basis of the materials you provide and in relation to other applications to the course.
If guidance for your country is not shown below and you would like to discuss your suitability for a graduate course, contact the academic department using the details provided on the course page .
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a 'strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours' in the UK system, you will usually need one of the following qualifications:
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a 'first class undergraduate degree with honours' in the UK system, you will usually need one of the following qualifications:
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a master's degree in the UK system, you will usually need:
Due to the high variation in grading practices between institutions, these grading standards are approximate and provided for general reference only.
Assessors are advised to consult the individual institution’s grading system and to look closely at individual grades as well as any overall grade.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a master's degree in the UK system, you will usually need one of the following qualifications:
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours’ in the UK system, you will usually need:
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘first-class undergraduate degree with honours’ in the UK system, you will usually need one of the above qualifications with an overall grade of ‘A’ or 83%, a GPA of 3.6 out of 4.0 or a GPA of 8 out of 9.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a master's degree in the UK system, you will usually need a master’s degree/ Maîtrise or Master of Philosophy.
An overall grade of ‘B+’ or 77%, or a GPA of 3.5 out of 4.0, is usually considered equivalent to a merit grade in the UK system.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘ strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours ’ in the UK system, you will usually need a bachelor’s degree with an overall grade of 85% from a Double First Class University, former Project 985 or Project 211 institution or 90% from other institutions.
Applicants with scores of less than 90% from other institutions should also have at least a passing grade in a master’s degree.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘ first-class undergraduate degree with honours ’ in the UK system, you will usually need an overall score of 90% from a Double First Class University, former Project 985 or Project 211 institution or 95% from other institutions.
Applicants with scores of less than 95% from other institutions should also have at least a passing grade in a master’s degree.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a master's degree in the UK system, you will usually need a master’s degree with an overall grade corresponding to the following:
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘ strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours ’ in the UK system , you will usually need a bachelor’s degree from a recognised university with an overall grade of 80% (‘B+’) or ‘Very Good’, or a GPA of 3.5 out of 4.0.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘ first-class undergraduate degree with honours ’ in the UK system , you will usually need a bachelor’s degree from a recognised university with an an overall grade of 85% (‘A’) or ‘Excellent’, or a GPA of 3.7 out of 4.0.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a master's degree in the UK system , you will usually need a master’s degree ( Majister ) with an overall grade corresponding to the following:
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours’ in the UK system , you will usually need one of the following qualifications:
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘ first-class undergraduate degree with honours ’ in the UK system , you will usually need one of the following qualifications:
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a 'strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours' in the UK system, you will usually need either:
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a 'first class undergraduate degree with honours' in the UK system, you will usually need either:
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a master's degree in the UK system , you will usually need a Master (post-2002) or Magister Artium/Diplom (pre-2002) qualification.
An overall grade of 2,0 is usually considered equivalent to a merit grade in the UK system.
An overall grade of 1,4 is usually considered equivalent to a distinction grade in the UK system.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours' in the UK system , you will usually need either:
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘first-class undergraduate degree with honours' in the UK system , you will usually need either:
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a master's degree in the UK system , you will usually need a master’s degree from a recognised institution.
If the course requires a merit, an overall grade of 7.0 out of 10.0 is usually required.
If the course requires a distinction, an overall grade of 8.5 out of 10 is usually required.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours’ in the UK system , you will usually need a bachelor’s degree (honours) with an overall grade of 2:1 (upper second-class) or a GPA of 3.5 out of 4.0.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘first class undergraduate degree with honours’ in the UK system , you will usually need a bachelor’s degree (honours) with an overall grade of first-class or a GPA of 3.7 out of 4.0.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a master's degree in the UK system , you will usually need a master’s degree from a recognised institution.
If a merit grade is required for your course, an overall grade of ‘Credit’ or a cumulative GPA of 3.2 out of 4.0 is usually required.
If a distinction grade is required, an overall grade of ‘Distinction’ or a GPA of 3.5 out of 4.0 is usually required.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours' in the UK system , you will usually need one of the following qualifications:
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘first class undergraduate degree with honours' in the UK system , you will usually need either:
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a master's degree in the UK system , you will usually need a master’s degree awarded by a recognised institution with an overall grade corresponding to the following:
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘first-class undergraduate degree with honours’ in the UK system , you will usually need:
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a master's degree in the UK system , you will usually need a master’s degree (2 years), ie Karshenasi Arshad (formerly Fogh Licence ), with an overall grade corresponding to the following:
Entry requirements for UK qualifications can be directly applied to Irish qualifications.
For example, if your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘first-class undergraduate degree with honours’ in the UK system it will also require a first-class undergraduate degree with honours in the Irish system.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours’ in the UK system, you will usually need Laurea (a three-year bachelor’s degree), Diploma Accademico di Primo Livello, Licenza di Accademia di Belle Arti , or Diploma di Istituto Superiore per le Industrie Artistiche with an overall grade of 106 out of 110.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘first class undergraduate degree with honours’ in the UK system , you will usually need a Laurea (a three-year bachelor’s degree), Diploma Accademico di Primo Livello, Licenza di Accademia di Belle Arti , or Diploma di Istituto Superiore per le Industrie Artistiche with an overall grade of 109 out of 110.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a master's degree in the UK system , you will usually need one of the following:
If your course requires a merit in the UK system, you will usually need an overall grade of 106 out of 110.
If your course requires a distinction in the UK system, you will usually need an overall grade of 110 out of 110.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours' in the UK system, you will usually need a bachelor’s degree with an overall grade of 80%, ‘B’ (high) or ‘Excellent’.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘first class undergraduate degree with honours' in the UK system , you will usually need a bachelor’s degree with an overall grade of 90%, ‘A’ (high) or ‘Outstanding’.
If your course requires a merit grade in the UK system, you will usually need an overall grade of 76%, ‘B+’ or ‘Good’.
If your course requires a distinction grade in the UK system, you will usually need an overall grade of 90%, ‘A’ (high) or ‘Outstanding’.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours’ in the UK system, you will usually need a bachelor’s degree with an overall grade of 85% or ‘B+’, or a cumulative GPA of 3.2 out of 4.0, 3.4 out of 4.3, or 3.6 out of 4.5.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘first class undergraduate degree with honours’ in the UK system , you will usually need a bachelor’s degree with an overall grade of 95% or ‘A’, or a cumulative GPA of 3.6 out of 4.0, 3.8 out of 4.3, or 4.0 out of 4.5.
If your course requires a master’s degree in the UK system , you will usually need a master’s degree from a recognised institution.
If your course requires a merit in the UK system, you will usually need an overall grade of 85% or ‘B+’.
If your course requires a distinction in the UK system, you will usually need an overall grade of 90% or ‘A’.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours’ in the UK system , you will usually need a bachelor’s degree with an overall grade of Class 2 Division I, ‘B+’ or 72%, or a GPA of 3.4 out of 4.0.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘first-class undergraduate degree with honours’ in the UK system , you will usually need a bachelor’s degree with an overall grade of Class 1, ‘A’ or 80%, or a GPA of 3.7 out of 4.0.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a master's degree in the UK system, you will usually need a master's degree from a recognised institution.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a 'strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours' in the UK system, you will usually need a bachelor’s degree with an overall grade of 7.5 out of 10.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a 'first-class undergraduate degree with honours' in the UK system , you will usually need a bachelor's degree with an overall grade of 8 out of 10.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a master's degree in the UK system , you will usually need a master's degree from a recognised institution.
If your course requires a merit in the UK system, you will usually need an overall grade of 7.5 out of 10.
If your course requires a distinction in the UK system, you will need an overall grade of 8.0 out of 10.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a 'strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours' in the UK system , you will usually need a bachelor’s degree from a recognised university with an overall grade of 2:1 or 65% or a GPA of 4.0 out of 5.0.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a 'first-class undergraduate degree with honours' in the UK system , you will usually need a bachelor’s degree from a recognised university with an overall grade of first-class honours or 70%, or a GPA of 4.5 out of 5.0.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a master's degree in the UK system , you will usually need a master’s degree from a recognised university.
If your course requires a merit in the UK system, you will need an overall grade of 65% or 4.0 out of 5.0.
If a distinction in the UK system is required, you will need a master’s degree with an overall grade of 70% or 4.5 out of 5.0.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a 'strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours' in the UK system , you will usually need one of the following qualifications:
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a 'first class undergraduate degree with honours' in the UK system , you will need a bachelor’s degree from a well-ranked institution with an overall grade of ‘A+’ or 80%, or a GPA of 3.8 out of 4.0.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a master's degree in the UK system , you will usually need one of the following qualifications:
If your course requires a merit in the UK system, you will usually need an overall grade of 80% or a GPA of 3.75 out of 4.0.
If your course requires a distinction in the UK system, you will usually need an overall grade of 85% and above or a GPA of 3.85 out of 4.0.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours’ in the UK system , you will usually need one of the following qualifications:
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘first class undergraduate degree with honours’ in the UK system , you will usually need one of the following qualifications:
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a master's degree in the UK system , you will usually need a master’s degree, ie Magister/Magister Inzynier, from a recognised institution.
If your course requires a merit in the UK system, you will usually need an overall grade of 4.5 out of 5.0, 5.0 out of 6.0 or Dobry Plus.
If your course requires a distinction in the UK system, you will need an overall grade of 5.0 out of 5.0 or 6.0 out of 6.0.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours’ in the UK system , you will usually need a Licenciatura/Licienciado with an overall grade of 15/20 or a Diploma de Estudos Superiores Especializados (DESE) with an overall grade of 16/20.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘first-class undergraduate degree with honours’ in the UK system , you will usually need a Licenciatura/Licienciado with an overall grade of 17/20 or a Diploma de Estudos Superiores Especializados (DESE) with an overall grade of 18/20.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a master's degree in the UK system, you will usually need a Mestrado/Mestre with an overall grade corresponding to the following:
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a 'first class undergraduate degree with honours' in the UK system , you will usually need one of the following qualifications:
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a master's degree in the UK system , you will usually need you will usually need a master’s degree ( Magistr ).
If your course requires a merit in the UK system, you will usually need to have a ‘Pass’.
If your course requires a distinction in the UK system, you will usually need to have an overall grade of ‘Diploma with Excellence’ with the total percentage of ‘Excellent’ marks being no less than 75%.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a 'strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours' in the UK system , you will usually need a bachelor’s degree from a recognised university with an overall grade of Upper Second Class Honours/Lower Second Class Honours or CAP/GPA of 4.0 out of 5.0 or 3.5 out of 4.0.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a 'first class undergraduate degree with honours' in the UK system , you will usually need a bachelor's degree from a recognised university with an overall grade of First Class Honours/Upper Second Class Honours or a CPA/GPA of 4.5 out of 5.0 or 3.7 out of 4.0.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a master's degree in the UK system , you will usually need a master's degree from a recognised university.
If your course requires a merit in the UK system, you will usually need a CAP/GPA of 4.0 out of 5.0 or 3.5 out of 4.0.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a 'strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours' in the UK system , you will usually need one of the following qualifications:
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a master's degree in the UK system, you will usually need a Master’s Degree.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a 'strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours' in the UK system , you will usually need a Titulo Universitario Oficial de Graduado, Titulo de Licenciado/Ingeniero/Arquitecto with an overall grade of 7.5/10 or 2.5/4.0.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a 'first class undergraduate degree with honours' in the UK system , you will usually need a Titulo Universitario Oficial de Graduado, Titulo de Licenciado/Ingeniero/Arquitectoan with an overall grade of 8.5/10 or 2.75/4.0.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a master's degree in the UK system , you will need a post-Bologna (obtained since 2007) master's degree, ie Título de Máster (when recognised by the Ministerio de Educación ).
If your course requires a merit, you will need a grade of at least 7/10 or 2.5/4.0.
If your course requires a distinction, you will need a grade of at least 8/10 or 2.75/4.0.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours’ in the UK system , you will usually need a post-Bologna bachelor’s degree or Diplom/Diplome/Diploma or Lizentiat/Licence/Licenza or Staatsdiplom/Diplôme d'État/Diploma di Stato from a recognised university with an overall grade of 5/6, 8/10 or 2/5, or ‘gut’, ‘bien’, ‘bene’ or ‘good’.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a ‘first-class undergraduate degree with honours' in the UK system , you will usually need a post-Bologna bachelor’s degree or Diplom/Diplome/Diploma or Lizentiat/Licence/Licenza or Staatsdiplom/Diplôme d'État/Diploma di Stato awarded by a recognised university with an overall grade of 5.5/6, 9/10 or 1.5/5 (where 1 is the highest mark).
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a master's degree , you will need a post-Bologna master’s degree awarded by a recognised university (in addition to a first-cycle bachelor's degree or Diplom/Diplôme/Diploma or Lizentiat/Licence/Licenza ) with an overall grade corresponding to the following:
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a 'strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours' in the UK system , you will usually need a Lisans Diplomasi or Mühendis Diplomasi with an overall GPA of 3.3 out of 4.0.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a 'first class undergraduate degree with honours' in the UK system , you will usually need Lisans Diplomasi or Mühendis Diplomasi with an overall GPA of 3.6 out of 4.0.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a master's degree in the UK system , you will usually need a Yüsek Lisans Diplomasi, Tip Doktorlugu Diplomasi/DisHekimligi/Veteriner Hekim , or Bilim Uzmanlığı Diplomasi/Yüksek Mühendis Diplomasi with an overall grade corresponding to the following:
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a 'strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours' in the UK system , you will usually need a bachelor’s degree with an overall GPA of 3.5 out of 4.0/4.3 or 4.0 out of 5.0.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a 'first class undergraduate degree with honours' in the UK system , you will usually need an overall GPA of at least 3.7 out of 4.0/4.3 or 4.5 out of 5.0.
If your graduate course at Oxford requires a master's degree in the UK system , you will usually need a master's degree from a recognised institution with an overall GPA of 3.3 out of 4.0.
If guidance for your country is not shown above and you would like to discuss your suitability for a graduate course, contact the academic department using the details provided on the course page .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/international-applicants/english-language-requirements:
Oxford’s graduate courses are demanding, and you will need to demonstrate that you have a high level of proficiency in English to take up a place here.
If your first language is English and you have always been a citizen of and primarily resident in a majority English-speaking country recognised by UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI), or you are a current Oxford student applying for readmission, you do not need to demonstrate your level of English.
Your course page will show the level of English language proficiency required for the course: ‘Standard’ or ‘Higher’.
Your course page will show the required language level and the scores you must achieve in one of the English test formats accepted by the University (IELTS, TOEFL, Cambridge English, and Oxford Test of English Advanced).
To meet the requirement, you must achieve at least the minimum score in each component and overall in a single test.
If you already have language test scores that meet the required level for your course, please include them in your application.
You can also upload test scores to your application after you have submitted it, using Graduate Applicant Self Service .
Visit our Application Guide for more information about English language requirements and providing language test scores with your application.
Yes, you can submit your application without English language test scores.
If you don't submit scores, or the scores you submit don't meet the required level for your course, your application will still be assessed by the academic department as normal.
However, if the department later makes you an offer, you may be required to submit scores that meet your course's requirement in order to take up your place.
It can take a long time to secure a language test place, so you should arrange to sit a test as soon as possible.
You may be able to request a waiver of the requirement to provide English language test scores as part of your course application.
You may also apply for a waiver based on substantial professional experience if:
For more information and instructions on how to request a waiver, consult the Application Guide .
The Oxford University Language Centre is the University’s central hub for language learning.
The centre offers courses specifically for speakers of English as an additional language to help them improve their academic English in preparation for studying here.
The University offers an online pre-sessional English course which is open to international students preparing for graduate study at Oxford.
You may use the English language pre-sessional Course to meet your English language condition provided you have an English language test result within the past two years.
This must be no more than 0.5 IELTS points lower than the minimum overall score, and no more than 1 IELTS point lower than the minimum overall score in any of the four components (reading, writing, speaking, listening), as per the Standard or Higher level either of which will be required for your academic course ( further information about equivalencies for other tests can be found in this Application Guide).
Please contact your academic department in the first instance.
Further details about the pre-sessional English course are available on the Language Centre's website.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/international-applicants/visas-and-immigration:
There is information and help available for students who require a visa to study in the UK.
The University's Student Immigration website provides guidance on:
If you have pre-settled or settled status granted under the EU Settlement Scheme or indefinite leave to remain, you will not need a visa.
Otherwise, most other non-UK nationals will need a student visa, except Irish citizens who do not require a visa because of the common travel area.
If you require a visa to study in the UK, we recommend that you apply for your course by the December or January deadline for your course.
If you are considering studying on a part-time basis, please read the information about visa eligibility for part-time courses .
Most students will require a student visa.
If you are coming to Oxford for a course or period of study that is six months or less in duration, you may be eligible to come as a visitor.
For more information about the type of visa you will require to study at Oxford , visit the Student Immigration pages.
Following a rule change on 17 July 2023, family members of students commencing their studies in the 2024-25 academic year will only be able to join students who are studying a DPhil or a Masters by Research course.
For information about visas for your family , visit the Student Immigration pages.
For more information on what to think about before you come to Oxford, and information for new European and international students, visit our page about arriving in Oxford .
Some of our graduate courses in science, engineering, medicine and technology are included in the Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) scheme.
If you require a visa to study in the UK and you receive an offer to study one of these subjects at postgraduate level in the UK, you must have received your ATAS certificate before you apply for your visa.
The following nationalities are exempt from the ATAS requirement:
Please note that you cannot apply for your visa until an ATAS certificate has been granted .
If you receive an offer for a subject covered by ATAS, your academic department will inform you that an ATAS certificate is required.
Recognised students coming for one, two or three terms in any of these subject areas below will also need ATAS and your academic department will advise you.
As a guide, the courses below are likely to be included in the ATAS scheme:
Course Mode of study Expected length Astrophysics DPhil Full time 3-4 years Atmospheric, Oceanic and Planetary Physics DPhil Full time 3-4 years Atomic and Laser Physics DPhil Full time 3-4 years Autonomous Intelligent Machines and Systems EPSRC CDT Full time 4 years Autonomous Intelligent Machines and Systems EPSRC CDT Part time 8 years Biochemistry DPhil Full time 3-4 years Biochemistry MSc by Research Full time 1-3 years Biochemistry (Skaggs-Oxford Programme) DPhil Full time 5 years Biology DPhil Full time 3-4 years Biology MSc by Research Full time 2-3 years Biomedical and Clinical Sciences (Oxford-GSK) DPhil Full time 3 years Biomedical Sciences (NIH OxCam) DPhil Full time 3-4 years Cancer Science (Biological background) CDT Full time 4 years Cancer Science (Clinician) DPhil Full time 3 years Cancer Science (Intercalation) DPhil Full time 3 years Cancer Science (Maths/Physics background) CDT Full time 4 years Chemical Synthesis for a Healthy Planet EPSRC CDT Full time 4 years Chemistry DPhil Full time 3-4 years Chemistry MSc by Research Full time 2-3 years Chemistry IDLA: GenAI-Accelerated Kinetic Modelling of Catalytic CO2 Valorisation DPhil Full time 3-4 years Clinical Neurosciences DPhil Full time 3-4 years Clinical Neurosciences DPhil Part time 6-8 years Clinical Neurosciences MSc by Research Full time 1-3 years Clinical Neurosciences MSc by Research Part time 2-6 years Computer Science DPhil Full time 3-4 years Condensed Matter Physics DPhil Full time 3-4 years Earth Sciences MSc by Research Full time 2 years EcoWild NERC CDT Full time 3-4 years Ecowild NERC CDT Part time 8 years Engineering Biology EPSRC and BBSRC CDT Full time 4 years Engineering Science DPhil Full time 3-4 years Engineering Science DPhil Part time 6-8 years Engineering Science MSc by Research Full time 2-3 years Engineering Science  IDLA: Reactive Burn Modelling DPhil Part time 6-8 years Engineering Science iDLA: DPhil Full time 3-4 years Engineering Science iDLA: Gas Turbine Heat Management DPhil Full time 3-4 years Engineering Science iDLA: Generative AI Co-Pilots for Renewable Developers DPhil Full time 3-4 years Engineering Science iDLA: Isogeometric modelling of high-rate conditions for aerospace DPhil Full time 3-4 years Engineering Science iDLA: Isogeometric modelling of high-rate conditions for aerospace DPhil Part time 6-8 years Engineering Science iDLA: Quantum-enhanced machine learning of quantum problems DPhil Full time 3-4 years Engineering Science iDLA: Reactive Burn Modelling DPhil Full time 3-4 years Fundamentals in AI EIT CDT Full time 4 years Fusion Power EPSRC CDT Full time 4 years Fusion Power EPSRC CDT Part time 8 years Genomic Medicine and Statistics DPhil Full time 4 years Health Service Improvement and Evaluation MSc Full time 1 year Healthcare Data Science EPSRC CDT Full time 4 years Inflammatory and Musculoskeletal Disease DPhil Full time 3-4 years Information, Communication and the Social Sciences DPhil Full time 3-4 years Information, Communication and the Social Sciences DPhil Part time 6-8 years Inorganic Materials for Advanced Manufacturing EPSRC CDT Full time 4 years Intelligent Earth (AI for the Environment) UKRI CDT Full time 4 years Interdisciplinary Life and Environmental Science DPhil Full time 4 years Interdisciplinary Life and Environmental Science DPhil Part time 6-8 years Materials DPhil Full time 3-4 years Materials MSc by Research Full time 2-3 years Materials 4.0 EPSRC CDT Full time 4 years Materials 4.0 EPSRC CDT Part time 8 years Materials iDLA: AI-driven metrology for high-accuracy sequence-to-function links DPhil Full time 3-4 years Materials iDLA: Developing Al-6xxx alloys via composition, ageing & deformation DPhil Full time 3-4 years Materials iDLA: Enhanced Recyclability of Aluminium from Low-Grade Scrap DPhil Full time 3-4 years Mathematical and Theoretical Physics MSc Full time 9 months Mathematics DPhil Full time 3-4 years Mathematics MSc by Research Full time 2-3 years Mathematics of Random Systems: Analysis, Modelling and Algorithms CDT Full time 4 years Molecular and Cellular Medicine DPhil Full time 3-4 years Molecular and Cellular Medicine DPhil Part time 6-8 years Molecular and Cellular Medicine MSc by Research Full time 1-3 years Molecular and Cellular Medicine MSc by Research Part time 2-6 years Musculoskeletal Sciences DPhil Full time 3-4 years Musculoskeletal Sciences DPhil Part time 6-8 years Musculoskeletal Sciences MSc by Research Full time 1-3 years Musculoskeletal Sciences MSc by Research Part time 2-6 years Neuroscience combined MSc and DPhil Full time 4 years Oncology DPhil Full time 3-4 years Oncology MSc by Research Full time 1-3 years Particle Physics DPhil Full time 3-4 years PGCE (Physics) PGCert Full time 1 year Pharmacology DPhil Full time 3-4 years Pharmacology MSc by Research Full time 1-3 years Physiology, Anatomy and Genetics DPhil Full time 3-4 years Physiology, Anatomy and Genetics MSc by Research Full time 1-3 years Psychiatry DPhil Full time 3-4 years Psychiatry DPhil Part time 6-8 years Psychiatry MSc by Research Full time 1-3 years Psychiatry MSc by Research Part time 2-6 years Quantum Technologies MSc Full time 1 year Robotics and AI for Net Zero EPSRC CDT Full time 4 years Social Data Science DPhil Full time 3-4 years Social Data Science DPhil Part time 6-8 years Superconductivity: Enabling Transformative Technologies EPSRC CDT Full time 4 years Theoretical Physics DPhil Full time 3-4 years Women's and Reproductive Health DPhil Full time 3-4 years Women's and Reproductive Health DPhil Part time 8 years Women's and Reproductive Health MSc by Research Full time 1-3 years
The list of courses above is provided as a guide and may not be the complete list of Oxford's graduate courses that are included in the ATAS scheme - your department will inform you if an ATAS certificate is required for your course.
This list may be updated at any time to reflect the addition of new courses included in the ATAS scheme, or information received about an existing course and its ATAS requirement
For some courses, the requirement to obtain an ATAS certificate may depend on your research area.
Any ATAS requirement for a DPhil course also applies to:
You can apply for your ATAS certificate with a conditional offer from your department; you do not need to have your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) number.
Your department will need to provide you with a CAH3 code and a research project description, or list of course modules (for taught courses).
You must wait for the department to give you this information first before you apply for ATAS.
Applications are free, submitted online and take at least 20 working days (30 working days or more in the April to September busy period) to be processed.
Your certificate will be sent to you by email to include with your visa application.
More information about applying for ATAS including FAQs and guidance for completing the online form, is provided in our visa and immigration pages.
The information below is intended only for those applying for Recognised Student status .
If your period of study will be for more than six months you must apply for a Student visa before coming to the UK.
You will need to request your department to assign you a Confirmation of Acceptance for Study (CAS).
See our website for information on applying for a Student visa .
Student visa holders have restricted permission to work in the UK and further information about restrictions on working can be found on our Working while studying page.
If your period of study will be for less than a maximum of six months you could apply for a Student visa as above or alternatively you could use the visitor route.
You will need a visitor for study letter from your Oxford Department and written confirmation from your home institution that your research in Oxford will be part of or relevant to your course.
If you are a ‘Visa National’ you must apply for a six-month visitor visa before travelling to the UK.
Please refer to the Government's visa pages to check if you have to apply for a visa and also to apply for a visa .
If you are a ‘Non-visa National’ and coming for less than a maximum of six months you do not have to apply for a visa before travel.
You can instead show your visitor for study letter and the letter from your home institution on arrival at UK Border Control and ask to be admitted as a visitor.
Alternatively, if you are a nationality that can use the eGates at UK Border Control, you can enter via the eGates as a visitor.
Visitors are prohibited from working in the UK.
Please note, whether you are studying under the Student Route or as a visitor you cannot apply for a visa from within the UK and so cannot extend your period of study.
It is your responsibility to check how long it will take to obtain a visa in your country and to plan the submission of your application accordingly.
You should ensure that the start of your stay corresponds with the start date of an academic term.
Please see the University's further information on visas and immigration or alternatively, you can email the Student Immigration team at [email protected] for more details.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/applying-to-oxford:
In this section, you'll find detailed information to guide you through preparing and submitting your application for graduate study.
If you're considering applying for graduate study at Oxford, our step-by-step guide will get you started.
Our self-evaluation tool to help you understand whether your application is likely to be competitive.
Our students and staff provide tips and practical advice on preparing your postgraduate application.
Follow our detailed instructions to prepare, complete and submit your application.
Advice and further resources to support applications from disabled applicants.
Instructions and advice on how to submit a reference for a graduate application.
Watch our guide to making the best possible application to graduate study at Oxford.
Initiatives to improve access for under-represented and socio-economically disadvantaged groups at the University of Oxford.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/applying-to-oxford/getting-started:
Read our Choosing a course page, and check if the University offers a course you’re interested in applying to.
You can find a course in our A-Z or view the departments that offer graduate courses .
Read the entry requirements on the course page to make sure that you have the right qualifications.
Admissions are very competitive – make sure you've achieved, or will achieve, at least the minimum grade before you apply.
Check requirements and deadlines for funding - for over two-thirds of Oxford scholarships , you'll be automatically considered if you're eligible and apply by the December or January deadline for your course.
Use the fees, funding and scholarship search to find the fees and costs for your course, and whether you're eligible for any scholarships (£1,000+) which require an additional application.
You can also explore other potential sources of funding outside the University.
As soon as you decide to apply, contact your university to ask for a transcript , and ask your potential referees if they're happy to submit references for you – this can take longer than you expect.
Check the deadlines on the course page and plan your time to submit your application well in advance – we recommend two or three weeks earlier, if you can.
Your course page will tell you the English language requirement for your course: 'standard' or 'higher'.
Check whether you need to book a language test —it can take a few months to get a test place.
Think about whether you'd like to state a college preference in your application, or let us choose a college for you.
Your course page will tell you which colleges offer your course.
Learn more about Oxford's colleges in the Colleges section of our website.
Read through our application guide and your course page to make sure you send all the right documents and information when you apply.
If you're an international student, read our advice for international applicants .
To start your application, visit the course page of your chosen course and click 'Apply' in the 'How To Apply' section.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/applying-to-oxford/making-a-competitive-application:
This self-evaluation tool is designed to help you understand whether you are likely to be able to make a competitive application to a graduate course at Oxford and provide helpful advice on how to make the strongest possible application.
All the information you need to apply is available on this website, so make sure you have noted when you need to apply, what your application should contain and how it will be evaluated.
Applications will be assessed according to the entry requirements listed on individual course pages and the information you provide, so make sure you have checked the specifications for the supporting documents in the How to apply section of the course page (these will differ for each course).
There aren’t any hidden rules or requirements – applications are assessed against defined criteria and decisions made accordingly.
Our graduate students come from all round the world and a diverse range of backgrounds.
Oxford is committed to supporting applications from disadvantaged and underrepresented groups and has a range of graduate access schemes in place.
Our courses fall into two categories: taught courses (MSt, MSc, MPhil, PGDip, PGCert) and research courses (DPhil and MSc by Research).
Question: What type of course are you considering applying to?
Your answer: A taught course
Your answer: A research course
Return to start
Taught course Research course
Postgraduate taught courses include various levels of course: postgraduate certificates and diplomas, MSc and MSt masters' courses and MPhils.
Full-time masters’ courses are one-year courses, while MPhil courses last two years, with the first year normally being taught and the second research.
Some taught courses will encourage or require you to contact a potential supervisor ahead of applying.
You can find information on this in the How to apply section of individual course pages .
If you need to contact a supervisor, please refer to advice on the course page.
Your answer: Proceed
Proceed
Postgraduate research courses are typically either at PhD (known at Oxford as DPhil) or masters' level.
An MSc by Research course is like a mini PhD and has no taught components.
A full-time DPhil typically takes 3-4 years, while an MSc by Research takes 1-3 years.
Some DPhil courses will require you to have completed a masters' course first – you can find information on this in the entry requirements section of the course page.
Research courses will typically require you to submit a research proposal as part of your application and you are often required to contact a potential supervisor ahead of applying.
Entry requirements for each course are set out on our individual course pages .
These are what the academic assessors will be considering when making their decision.
Since entry to our courses is highly competitive, you are likely to need to meet, or even exceed, the published entry requirements.
Assessors will also consider how your performance has changed over time - your academic trajectory.
Academic grades are only one part of the assessment, so there may be some flexibility depending on other elements of your application and extenuating circumstances that may have affected your academic performance.
Assessors will also typically be looking for evidence of a deep interest in the subject area you have chosen, evidence of which might take the form of events attended, presentations and publications, practical experience, reading around the subject and a compelling explanation of how the course will help you achieve your ambitions.
Some courses hold interviews after shortlisting applicants, while others make their decisions based solely on the application and supporting documents, including references – this will be indicated in the entry requirements.
The minimum qualification normally required to be able to make a competitive application is shown on our individual course pages .
This is expressed either using the UK scale (1st, 2.1, 2.2, 3) or a US GPA (out of 4.0).
At the point of application we will accept a download or screenshot of your transcript from a self-service system, as long as it contains details of the institution, course, grades and your name.
If you are still completing your current course, you will need to provide an interim transcript showing the grades you have achieved so far.
Question: Do you meet (or are expecting to meet) the published requirements?
Your answer: Yes
Your answer: No
Your answer: My qualifications use a different grading system
Yes No My qualifications use a different system
The University publishes guidance on international qualifications from 28 countries to help applicants understand the types of qualifications and grades that would be considered to meet the entry requirements.
If you are unsure about the suitability of your qualifications after checking this guidance, please contact the course administrator for guidance using the contact details on our individual course pages .
Question: Do your overseas qualifications meet the published requirements?
Your answer: My country is not covered
Yes No My country is not covered
If your qualifications are not covered by our international qualifications guidance, our assessors will evaluate them as part of assessing your application.
As well as local knowledge, assessors will use information published by the UK’s qualifications body, ECCTIS.
Since entry to our courses is highly competitive, your grades would normally need to place you near the top of your cohort in your previous course.
20-25% of graduate applications to Oxford receive offers, although this does vary significantly by course – you can find information about volumes of applications received and places available on the right of each course page .
You do not need to provide information about your cohort ranking – this will be determined from your transcripts and the ratings given by your referees.
Question: Are/were your academic grades near the top of your cohort?
Yes No
Some of our courses include a significant professional element; this will be outlined on the course page.
If you are applying for one of these courses and your undergraduate degree does not meet the course’s requirement, your professional experience may enable you to make a competitive application.
If you need further advice, please contact the course administrator via the contact details on the course page.
Question: Are you applying for a course that has a significant professional element and have at least 3 years of relevant professional experience?
You may be able to make a successful application without meeting the entry requirements if specific circumstances have affected the strength of your application.
You can follow the instructions in the Application Guide to submit details of these extenuating circumstances in the extenuating circumstances section of your application, as well as in your personal statement if your course requires one.
Academic assessors will consider whether to adjust their assessment based on these circumstances.
Examples of potentially relevant circumstances include:
It will help our academic assessors if you provide evidence that focuses on the impact of those circumstances (eg effect on grades during a specific period or loss of opportunities such as an internship).
You should not include circumstances that have been appropriately addressed by your previous institution.
Question: Are there significant extenuating circumstances not taken into account by your institution that have affected your performance or disadvantages you have experienced in your school education?
N/A
Based on the responses you have made, you are likely to be in a position to make a competitive application.
Successful candidates often have higher scores than the minimum indicated, but applications are assessed according to the full set of entry requirements, not just academic grades and will take account of your academic trajectory as well as any extenuating circumstances.
To give yourself the best possible chance of success, make sure you check the How to apply section of the course page to ensure you submit the correct documents and they meet the specifications.
Start your application in good time (typically at least two months before the deadline to which you are applying) and register your referees as soon as you can.
Aim to submit your application at least two weeks ahead of the deadline so that you will be notified before the deadline if anything is missing.
Check the How to apply section of each course page to ensure you submit the correct documents and they meet the specifications.
You can find information about funding your studies in the  Fees and Funding section of this website.
Almost all University funding will require you to have applied in time for the December or January application deadline used by your course – check individual course pages for deadlines used.
You’ll automatically be considered for most funding that you’re eligible for, but please use the Fees, Funding and Scholarship search tool for details of whether any additional materials are required for particular schemes.
You may be able to make a competitive application.
Our assessors will examine your qualifications to determine whether your qualifications and grades meet the entry requirements for the course.
Professional experience may also be taken into account where this is mentioned in the entry requirements section of the course page.
Entry to our courses is highly competitive, but the University is committed to supporting applications from disadvantaged and underrepresented groups and has a range of graduate access schemes in place.
Our academic assessors will determine whether any adjustments should be made to their assessment based on any extenuating circumstances and will consider your academic trajectory and evidence of potential in their decision.
You’ll automatically be considered for most funding that you’re eligible for, but please use the Fees, Funding and Scholarship search tool for details of whether any additional materials are required for particular scheme.
Our assessors will evaluate your circumstances to determine whether they should make any adjustments in their assessment.
The assessment will take account of all elements of the application and will consider your academic trajectory as well as the grades you have achieved.
Some courses also take socio-economic information into account in the assessment of applications; this will be indicated on the course page.
Almost all University funding will require you to have applied in time for the December or January application deadline used by your course – check individual course pages for deadlines used.
Based on the responses you have provided, it may be difficult for you to make a successful application, as you do not appear to meet the requirements and entry to our courses is highly competitive.
This tool cannot cover all scenarios, however, so if you feel that you can still make a competitive application, you are welcome to apply.
If you do decide to apply, you will need to ensure that other elements of your application (eg written work and references) are strong enough to demonstrate your academic potential to the academic assessors.
If you do decide to apply, make sure you check individual course pages for the application deadlines used and the specification of the documents you will need to upload with your application.
We strongly recommend submitting your application at least two weeks ahead of the deadline so that you will be notified before the deadline if anything is missing.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/applying-to-oxford/how-to-guides:
Our students and staff provide tips and advice on preparing your application for postgraduate study.
Whether you're just thinking about applying or are already preparing documents to support your application, you'll find a guide below to help.
If you're looking for guidance on completing the graduate application form, please consult our dedicated Application Guide .
Dr Matt Williams offers his advice for making a powerful impression with your Oxford application.
Advice from Oxford students on how to approach your personal statement for graduate applications.
Not sure if you’re on the right track?
Our doctoral (DPhil) students and admissions staff offer advice.
Our advice on how to find a supervisor in your research area, however niche it may seem to you.
Our advice on who to ask, when to ask and what you should ask them.
If your course requires a CV/résumé, an Oxford alum explains how to approach writing one.
Watch our video about master's study to hear advice from Oxford students.
Watch our video about DPhil study to hear advice from Oxford students.
Watch our video about applying for funding to hear advice from Oxford students.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/applying-to-oxford/application-guide:
This guide explains how to complete the graduate application form and provide supporting documents.
Our Application Guide covers all aspects of completing the graduate application form and uploading your supporting documents.
If you're looking for tips and advice on preparing your application, such as how to write a personal statement or how to find a supervisor, please consult our How-to guides .
This section covers when to apply, how to start an application, and how to complete the first two tabs of the application form.
This section covers how to complete the following two tabs of the application form.
This section of the Application Guide covers how to provide references as part of your application.
This section covers how to complete the 'Qualifications', 'Languages' and 'Funding' tabs of the application form, and our requirements for English language proficiency.
This section explains how to complete the 'Supporting Documents' tab of the application form, and the requirements for supporting documents.
This section explains how to complete the 'Declaration' tab of the application form and pay the application fee.
This is a guide to making an application in 2024-25, and cannot be used to apply in later years.
Guidance for applications in 2025-26 will be available from September 2025.
This Application Guide and the Graduate Admissions webpages are definitive, with the most up-to-date and comprehensive information about Oxford’s admissions process and requirements.
These may change and you should consider the version currently online to be the most accurate source of information at any given time.
External websites may give information about graduate courses and admissions to Oxford which can be incomplete and/or inaccurate.
Department and college websites may also repeat information about how to apply.
However, if there is any conflict, this Application Guide and the Graduate Admissions webpages should be considered definitive and accurate.
If you're thinking about applying for graduate study at Oxford, our How-to guides provide advice and tips from our students and staff, such as how to write a CV, personal statement or research proposal.
The instructions in this Application Guide are relevant to applications for all graduate courses at Oxford, except for :
After starting an application via the course page , you can save your progress and continue it later:
Continue your application
Please be aware that genuine communications from the University will be sent to you from [email protected] or from an ox.ac.uk email address.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/applying-to-oxford/disabled-applicants:
At Oxford over 7,000 students have declared a disability.
We're committed to making reasonable adjustments and addressing individual support requirements to make sure that you're able to participate fully and enjoy a fulfilling university experience.
Communications from Graduate Admissions and the University's departments and colleges will usually be sent via email.
If this will cause you any difficulty, please telephone Graduate Admissions on +44 (0)1865 270059 to discuss alternative formats.
We welcome applications from disabled people and are committed to making reasonable adjustments to enable students to participate fully in student life.
All applications are assessed purely on academic merit and potential, according to the published selection criteria for the course you have applied for.
The University and colleges view applications from disabled students on the same grounds as those from other candidates.
If you are thinking about applying to Oxford, you can find information about the facilities and support available to students from the Disability Advisory Service .
If you would like to discuss your application, you can contact Graduate Admissions and Funding online or by telephone at +44 (0) 1865 270059.
If you have a preferred college to which you would like to apply, you may wish to contact that college to discuss the support provision available.
Contact details for all colleges are available via our individual college pages .
Guidance on making an application for postgraduate study as a disabled student has been published by the Disabled Students’ Commission.
This guidance was written for UK funded students.
As such, some references, including to DSA funding, are not relevant to overseas students.
However, the University contributes to disability-related study support for international students who are not eligible for the DSA and students should contact the Disability Advisory Service to discuss further.
International students must fund any personal care needs.
The University's Disability Advisory Service (DAS) has published a PDF document that contains further guidance on personal care considerations .
Educational institutions have a duty under the Equality Act (2010) to make ‘reasonable adjustments’ to ensure that disabled students are not placed at a substantial disadvantage in their access to services, assessment and teaching.
The University and its colleges make some adjustments in anticipation of disabled students’ support requirements, eg improving physical access to buildings, but also appreciate that individuals are different and further changes may need to be considered and implemented.
Any disability disclosure will be dealt with confidentially and sensitively.
If you tell us about the impact of your disability we can discuss appropriate support.
Adjustments can be made and support requirements taken into consideration during the application process to enable you to best demonstrate your abilities and achievements.
We encourage you to tell us about your disability when you apply by responding to the questions on the application form, but if you have not done so, please tell us when you receive an offer of a place.
In order to provide study support, relevant departments and colleges of the University may need to share information about your needs.
Information will only be shared with your explicit consent on a need-to-know basis with relevant people, such as the lecturers and tutors who will teach you and relevant library and support staff.
The information provided is also used to monitor rates of participation in Higher Education by particular groups of people, which is a statutory requirement; it does not form part of any assessment of your application.
If you wish to disclose a disability separately from the application form process, please contact DAS and complete the DAS registration form , and respond to the welcome email.
The systems for supporting disabled students at Oxford may be different from those that you have experienced at your previous universities.
Study support is developed around your individual requirements and there are many individuals who can help you through the process.
Contacting the Disability Advisory Service is a good starting point.
This will help you to plan properly and get arrangements in place before your arrival, so you can focus on enjoying student life at Oxford.
If you make a successful application and are offered a place, we would advise you to make a more formal appointment with your supervisor and the departmental and college disability contacts to discuss your requirements.
It may be possible for these discussions to take place via telephone or video call if you are not able to come to Oxford.
The Disability Advisory Service can advise on funds available to disabled students to cover certain disability related study support costs.
UK students may be eligible for the Disabled Students' Allowances (DSA) if they have appropriate evidence of a disability, and the Disability Advisory Service can assist students with making an application or advise on other funds available to those who do not qualify for DSA.
Non-UK students are not eligible for DSA.
However, the University has a policy of funding a similar level of disability-related study support for non-UK students, where there is an assessed need.
It can take several months from the point of application before full support is implemented, so the earlier you apply the better.
All colleges are committed to making reasonable adjustments for disabled students and have a duty to do so.
Preliminary information about existing college support for disabled students and contact details for all colleges are available via our individual college pages .
Please note, colleges are not able to guarantee graduate students accommodation and you may need to apply for University accommodation and/or look to the private rental market.
You can find more information on our Accommodation page .
If you have the opportunity, you should consider coming to Oxford for an informal visit to view the colleges and department of your choice.
You should always arrange appointments in advance, as staff are not always available and buildings will not always be open.
Some departments hold open days, which you should attend if you can.
This will give you a good idea of the accessibility of buildings and other services, as well as the chance to ask any questions about your support requirements.
You will also be able to get a sense of how close various colleges are to the department where you will be studying.
If you are not able to visit, check if the department or college is holding any online open days .
You may also wish to take a look at our college virtual tours and tour videos on our individual college pages .
Visitors can find information on the access features of certain colleges and departments of the University in the Oxford University Access Guide offers a directory of all currently available information, as well as contact details for further queries.
You are advised to contact your department about access to lecture theatres and other facilities if this may be a concern for you.
As part of the University of Oxford’s commitment to providing support to disabled applicants during the admissions process, we would be pleased to receive any feedback about the experience of the admissions process and the support offered.
Please send your feedback to [email protected] .
This email address should only be used for feedback and not general enquiries, which should instead be submitted via our online query form , separately from the application form process.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/applying-to-oxford/information-for-referees:
Referees are kindly requested to submit an online reference form, including a reference letter, to assist the University in making a full assessment of each applicant’s academic record and abilities.
Acting as a referee is an important role in helping us assess whether the applicant is likely to be successful on their intended course.
The information below sets out what we are looking for in a reference and how to provide a reference that will be of most value to our academic assessors.
If the applicant has not sent you a copy of their CV when asking you to act as a referee, you may find it helpful to request this from them to get additional information on any relevant activities or achievements, particularly if your last interaction with them was a while ago.
We advise applicants to contact and register their referees as early in the application process as possible.
As soon as an applicant registers you as a referee, you will receive a short automated email with the applicant's details and a link to the online reference system.
It will also include the deadline for your reference, as entered by the applicant in their application form.
Submitting a reference will involve the following steps:
Once you have submitted the form, a confirmation will appear on screen and an automated email will be sent to your registered address.
If the applicant applies to more than one course, you will need to repeat this process for each application.
Depending on the nature of your professional role, you may not be able to speak to all of the above skills, but please try to identify specific examples where the applicant has demonstrated the qualities and experience relevant to their intended course.
If you do not think you can comment meaningfully on areas relevant to the applicant or your organisation’s policies limit what you can include in a reference, you may need to inform the applicant.
We do require references to be submitted in English and by the referee themselves.
It is possible for your reference to be translated by a third party, but it must be reviewed and submitted by you.
Applicants are required to register referees with their institutional or professional email address.
If you do not have an institutional or professional email address, we would be grateful if you could give your full contact information in your reference letter and explain very briefly why it was necessary to use an alternative email address, eg if your academic institution does not issue email accounts.
If you wish your reference to be treated as confidential, please select this option in the reference form.
If you are submitting your reference letter directly by email or in hard copy and wish it to be treated as confidential, please clearly indicate this at the top of the letter.
Otherwise, in the event of a subject access request , your reference may be disclosed to the applicant.
The notification email with the information you need to access to the system and any subsequent emails from the online reference system are sent immediately on the applicant’s request.
The timing and frequency of these automated emails are under each applicant’s control, though all applicants are also strongly advised to keep in contact with each of their referees directly throughout the process.
If you cannot find or do not receive the initial email then the applicant can re-send this to you.
Please note that references must be received by the University’s application deadline in order for that application to be considered.
It is the applicant's responsibility to accurately communicate the deadline that they intend to use to you, to ensure that all of their referees are given good notice of the deadline they intend to apply for, and to arrange alternative referees if any of their referees cannot meet the deadline.
The deadline for submitting the reference is set by the applicant.
We do advise them to give referees plenty of time, but this guidance is not always followed.
If you are unwilling or no longer able to act as a referee, we would kindly request that you let the applicant know directly.
Before contacting us, please read our FAQs:

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/applying-to-oxford/initiatives-to-improve-access:
A number of departments have pilot initiatives to improve postgraduate access for under-represented and socio-economically disadvantaged groups at the University of Oxford.
If activities are being undertaken, the How to apply section of the course page will provide details of the specific actions under an ' Improving access to graduate study ' heading.
You do not need to refer to this page if the course you are applying to is not participating in these initiatives.
The pilots aim specifically at better contextualising the admissions procedure for graduate applicants, in order to improve the fairness of the assessment and selection process, and minimise conscious and unconscious bias.
The initiatives being undertaken are described on this page and vary between departments and in some cases between courses offered by the same department.
These initiatives apply only to the course selection procedure.
The college selection procedure has not been amended and will be undertaken in the same way for all graduate courses.
The action described below is not undertaken for all graduate courses.
Please consult the How to apply section of the relevant course page to find out if this initiative is carried out for the course you are applying to, or consult the list of courses taking part (below).
The University currently collects a range of socio-economic data from candidates who apply for graduate study.
Where provided by candidates, this information is used for research purposes, to understand the demographics of those applying and of those who are offered places.
It is also used by the courses taking part in this initiative to better understand the context of your achievements and the challenges that you might have faced in your education to date.
This data may be used at several stages in the assessment and selection process.
This list will continue to be updated as courses are opened to accept applications.
Please check back regularly for updates.
We recognise that the socio-economic data that we collect may not fully capture an individual student’s personal circumstances or educational trajectory, so if any of the criteria listed below apply, we encourage you to submit a statement providing additional details on your personal circumstances, using the contextual statement form.
A link to the form will be included in the How to apply section of the course page if the course is participating in this initiative.
Your contextual statement will be used to contextualise assessment and selection processes, and may be used in association with any socio-economic data provided.
You may wish to provide a contextual statement, particularly if you:
Please note, this statement is in addition to completing the 'Extenuating circumstances’ section of the standard application form .
Once academic shortlisting has taken place, we will use information on ethnicity to ensure that if you identify as Black British, you will be invited to interview, provided that you:
The reason for taking this positive action initiative is to address the under-representation of Black British students in doctoral research in certain subjects by ensuring that if you are eligible, you are given the opportunity to demonstrate your potential for doctoral study at interview.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/applying-to-oxford/visiting-and-recognised-student-form-guidance:
These instructions are provided to help you complete the data entry form for visiting students or the application form for recognised students and to explain the purpose of the questions.
The information below is intended only for those applying for Visiting Student status or Recognised Student status .
If you are applying to be a postgraduate student, please refer to the Application Guide .
It is important that you read these instructions before completing the form.
Please type your answers in the fields provided.
The information collected will form the basis of your student record in the University’s student system and will be held for the purposes of student administration in accordance with the University’s Postgraduate Applicant Privacy Policy or the University’s Undergraduate Applicant Privacy Policy as appropriate and subject to the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the Data Protection Act 2018.
We are obliged by law to make annual returns to the Higher Education Statistics Agency for each student and the information will be used for that purpose also.
HESA regulations state that they will only use the data for statistical purposes and will not identify any individual to any third party.
Please indicate whether you have been accepted as an undergraduate or graduate student.
Please enter the name of the Oxford College, Society or Permanent Private Hall that has agreed to admit you.
You are required to contact the department to ensure that they have capacity to offer a place in the event your application is successful.
Please enter your full name in the format indicated.
If you are from outside the UK or Ireland, your name details must exactly match your name as it appears on your passport, including any middle names and the correct order of names , otherwise you risk your visa application being delayed.
Please note that this is the name that will be recorded for all official correspondence, records, and used on certificates, transcripts and references that the university may provide.
If at any time you wish to change any part of your name please notify your college to progress this.
If you are normally known by a name other than your first name, please indicate the name you wish to use in the box provided.
Enter the address of your permanent home before starting your course at Oxford.
If you have been in full-time education then give your parental home address.
Enter the address to which any correspondence should be sent before starting your course at Oxford (if different to your home address).
Enter a contact telephone number which will be valid until you start your course at Oxford.
Enter a contact e-mail address which will be valid until you start your course at Oxford.
Please confirm all countries that you have nationality of and give an effective date if you have not been a national of that country from birth.
If you are not a national of the UK or Ireland, please give the number, country of issue, issue date and expiry date of the passport that you intend to use to enter the UK.
Your country of ordinary residence is the country in which you are normally resident, out of choice and for a settled purpose, apart from temporary or occasional absences.
It is not a country in which you are studying, working or living temporarily.
If you have been ordinarily resident in a single country since birth, please enter your birth date in the 'From:' field for the 'current country of ordinary residence' question.
If you have been ordinarily resident in more than one country, your dates of residence must not overlap.
You must include an end date for your previous country of ordinary residence, which must be at least one day before the start date of your current country of ordinary residence.
Please provide details of your current course (if applicable) and the highest qualification completed before entry to Oxford.
Please give the name of the institution(s), dates of attendance, qualification, subject and result.
If the location does not form part of the institution’s name, please show this also, and the country if outside the UK.
The English language requirement for students should reflect the language requirement for their area of study (either standard or higher).
Our Application Guide for graduate applications provides further information about English language proficiency , including information on English-speaking countries, accepted English proficiency tests and minimum requirements.
Please note that you are required to submit evidence of results (test certificate) that should be no more than two years old at the time of starting your study at Oxford, unless one of the following conditions apply:
This level achieved should be that normally required by the area of study you will be undertaking (either standard or higher), from one of the language tests that the University approves .
This will then enable you to meet UK government regulations regarding the English language requirement to obtain a UK Student visa.
We will then include a statement on your CAS (Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies) for your visa confirming that you have met the minimum UK Home Office requirement.
Before completing the data entry form, you will be asked for some additional information.
Only the criminal convictions question is mandatory for students completing the visiting data entry form.
The information you provide in the sections below will not form part of the course selection process and will not be seen by anyone involved in assessing your application for the course except as set out below.
Your personal information will be treated in accordance with the UK GDPR and related UK data protection legislation.
Full details are set out in the University's Postgraduate Applicant Privacy Policy .
The University of Oxford embraces diversity and seeks to achieve equity in the experience, progression and achievement of all our students.
The personal data we collect from applicants and current students enables us to meet our statutory obligations under the Equality Act, and assess the impact of our policies and practices on people from different equality groups and put in place appropriate provision and support for all students.
We recognise that these are sensitive questions, but hope you will feel able to provide this information, in confidence, to support our efforts to create a more inclusive, diverse and equitable Oxford.
Please see the University's Equality Policy for more information about equality at Oxford.
We welcome applications from disabled people.
Please tell us if you have a disability, including sensory or mobility impairments, long-term mental health conditions, longstanding illnesses or health conditions, autism spectrum conditions, or specific learning difficulties such as dyslexia, dyspraxia and ADHD.
We will not take this information into account when assessing your application, which will be judged on academic merit and potential alone.
The information you provide to the University will be treated in line with the Data Protection Policy.
If you accept a place here, information about your disability will only be shared on a strictly limited basis with key individuals in academic, administrative and support roles in order to provide effective support, e.g.
your tutor, supervisor etc.
This will include sharing your information with our Disability Advisory Service so that they may work with you to put in place any necessary adjustments or provide study support.
You should contact the Disability Advisory Service as soon as possible if you wish to discuss this section, or anything to do with provision for disability-related support for your course.
Please note that you must answer this question .
In accordance with the University’s obligations towards students and staff, we will request information about relevant, unspent criminal convictions during the offer-stage process for visiting students so that appropriate steps can be taken to facilitate effective support and/or assess whether a prospective student poses an unacceptable risk to students and staff.
The University has adopted a policy for any case where an applicant with an offer for a visiting student place has a relevant, unspent criminal conviction which has either been declared by an applicant to the University or which has otherwise come to the University’s attention (such as where information is disclosed by a third party).
We ask you to declare 'any relevant unspent criminal convictions' on the data entry form.
Convictions that are 'spent' (as defined by the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974) or will be spent at the point of starting the matriculated non-award student placement do not need to be declared.
If you are not sure whether your conviction is spent, please seek independent advice.
Full details of the University’s process for prospective graduate students declaring a criminal conviction can be found in our University Policies pages.
The Undergraduate Admissions website provides full details of the University’s process for prospective undergraduate students declaring a criminal conviction .
Please see the relevant sections of the Home Office document ' Grounds for refusal ' for information regarding possible circumstances under which a visa application may be refused.
Please read the declaration carefully before signing and submitting your form.
Attach a recent passport sized photograph to the University Card form.
This may be in colour or black and white.
Please ensure that you are not wearing a hat or sunglasses in the photograph and that your face is clearly visible.
If you are unable to upload it to the form, please send your photo as an attachment with your name as the file name.
The image must be a true likeness and must not include image manipulation, such as filters, photoshopping, or use of AI.
If you have a query about Visiting or Recognised Student status at Oxford, we're here to help:

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/applying-to-oxford/university-policies:
This website is designed for those applying in 2024-25 for graduate study at Oxford.
Detailed guidance for applicants with criminal convictions.
Definition of plagiarism and guidance on how to avoid it.
Information about why an application may be found to be ineligible.
Information on intellectual property (IP) and academic integrity in research.
All full-time graduate students must meet the University's residence requirements.
Procedure for complaints and appeals related to the graduate admissions process.
Find out how we collect and use your data as part of the graduate application process.
Find out how we collect and use your data when you register or participate in online events.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/after-you-apply:
After you submit your application, it will be reviewed by the Graduate Admissions office to make sure that it is ready for assessment.
If it was submitted on time, with all the necessary supporting documents, and you've paid the application fee, it will be sent on to the academic department for assessment.
How applications are assessed, tracking your department decision and the potential outcomes explained.
Our guide to the assessment process, and department, college and funding decisions.
Find out when and how you will be informed if you have been awarded a scholarship and which college you will be a member of.
How to use the self-service features of your submitted application.
You've received an offer — congratulations!
Access essential documents and information here.
The University and its colleges accommodated 72% of full-time first-year graduate students in 2018-19.
Watch our video about the graduate interview process at Oxford.
What to think about when you're preparing to come to Oxford.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/after-you-apply/assessing-your-application:
Your application will be assessed purely on your proven and potential academic excellence and other entry requirements described under that heading on the course page.
References and supporting documents submitted as part of your application, and your performance at interview (if interviews are held) will be considered as part of the assessment process.
Whether or not you have secured funding will not be taken into consideration when your application is assessed.
An overview of the shortlisting and selection process is provided below.
You can also find a timeline overview of the assessment process in our Decision Timeline.
When you submit your application, it is checked by a member of staff in Graduate Admissions to make sure that it is complete and meets the application requirements for your chosen course.
If your application is complete, the Graduate Admissions team will let the academic department know that they can start assessing your application.
The academic department that offers the course you have applied to will assess the academic quality and suitability of your application.
After this is complete, the department will send you formal notification of their decision by email.
The average waiting time for a decision is around 8 to 10 weeks after the deadline you apply to.
For the January deadlines, for example, you would usually hear around late March to early April.
Unfortunately it is not possible to give more specific dates in advance.
If the course you have applied to has remained open to applications after the last standard University deadline in March, there is no formal timetable for the assessment process, but you can usually expect to be notified of the outcome around 6 to 8 weeks after completing your application.
After you apply, and before the department makes a final decision on your application, you may be called for interview and/or asked to send further documents.
This could include a third reference if there are only two in your application.
Some courses will interview applicants during the selection process, but many do not conduct interviews.
You can check whether shortlisted applicants will be interviewed, and the usual length and structure of interviews, in the 'Entry requirements' section of the course page .
Your academic department may want to hold interviews by video call, by phone or in person.
They will contact you directly to arrange this, if necessary.
Applications are academically assessed against the entry requirements for the course and relatively in terms of the quality of previous academic excellence and future potential, in comparison with the applications received from other candidates for the course.
The University seeks to admit the very best candidates who apply for the courses it offers.
The entry requirements for each course and the number of applications and places available are provided on our course pages .
Meeting the entry requirements may not be sufficient to guarantee a place and competition for places is very strong.
Departments receive many more excellent applications than they have places available, so it is important that you take care over your application to best illustrate your academic achievement and future potential.
All recommendations to admit a student involve the judgement of at least two members of the academic staff with relevant experience and expertise, and must also be approved by the Director of Graduate Studies or Admissions Committee (or equivalent within the department).
Admissions panels or committees will always include at least one member of academic staff who has undertaken appropriate training.
The University of Oxford and its colleges seek to admit students of high academic ability and potential.
Students are considered for shortlisting and selected for admission without regard to age, disability, gender reassignment, marital or civil partnership status, pregnancy and maternity, race (including colour, nationality and ethnic or national origins), religion or belief (including lack of belief), sex, sexual orientation, as well as other relevant circumstances including parental or caring responsibilities or social background.
However, please note the following:
Information about processing special category data for the purposes of positive action and using your data to assess your eligibility for funding , can be found in our Postgraduate Applicant Privacy Policy.
Decisions on admission are based solely on the individual academic merits of each candidate and the application of selection criteria appropriate to the course.
Admissions procedures will be kept under review to ensure compliance with this policy.
Both successful and unsuccessful applicants will be notified by email and the outcome will also be displayed in your Graduate Applicant Self-Service.
If your application was incomplete at the deadline, you will only be contacted if the academic department chooses to assess your application.
It is not usually possible to know the outcome any earlier since applications are assessed comparatively, against all other applicants.
However, if you need to know the outcome earlier so you can make a decision ahead of a deadline set by another institution, you can contact the academic department to ask if this is possible.
If more than ten weeks have passed since your application deadline date and you have not received a decision, or if you have any questions about the progress of the academic assessment, please contact the academic department directly via the contact details on the course page.
Graduate Admissions is not authorised to disclose decisions from academic departments, colleges or funding bodies.
If you have a complaint about the admissions process, please see our page on Complaints and appeals .
If your application was complete and eligible for academic assessment at the application deadline date, you will be notified by email of one of the following outcomes.
The outcome will also be shown in your Self-Service:
An offer of a place from your department constitutes an overall offer of a place at Oxford.
You are then guaranteed a college place, unless you have been accepted to a non-matriculated course for which a college place is not offered.
Your certificate of offer will be available to download via Self-Service together with your Course Information Sheet, University Terms and Conditions and Student Handbook.
The certificate of offer will give full details of your offer and any academic conditions, such as achieving a specific final grade in your current degree course.
The department will ask you to confirm, also via Self-Service, whether you wish to accept the offer and give you both a deadline for responding to the offer and a deadline to fulfil any conditions.
Offer holders will also be asked to complete the Criminal Convictions Declaration in Self-Service.
Please note that Self-Service will not show college outcomes or any funding you have been awarded.
This will be received by email to your registered email address.
If your application is unsuccessful, you will also be notified of this.
Due to the high volume of applications the University receives, it is a University policy that we do not provide feedback on unsuccessful applications.
If you are unsuccessful, you will no longer be considered for college places or funding.
In some cases, the academic department may feel that you have performed well against the entry requirements for the course but they wish to consider your application against the applications received in the next deadline.
In this case, you will receive an email to inform you that your application will be re-evaluated and you can expect a final decision around 8 to 10 weeks after the date of the deadline into which you are being re-evaluated.
If your application is re-evaluated from the January deadline into the March deadline, you will no longer be considered for funding opportunities where a departmental offer is required as part of the December of January deadline.
If the academic department feels that you have performed well against the entry requirements for the course but there are no more places available, you may be notified that you have been added to a waiting list in case any additional places do become available.
If your application is put on a waiting list, you will no longer be considered for funding opportunities where a departmental offer is required as part of the January deadline.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/after-you-apply/decision-timeline:
Once you have submitted your application and it has been processed by the Graduate Admissions Office, you will be able to log in to access Graduate Applicant Self Service .
You can use self-service to edit and replace your referees, track your application status, view your application and upload any missing documents.
Look out for our automated emails to let you know when each reference is submitted.
Check self-service regularly and stay in contact with your referees to make sure all documents have been sent in by the deadline.
Once we have everything we need for your application to be ready for assessment, we will let you know by email and in your self-service.
Depending on your course, you may be interviewed (usually via video call or in-person).
Check whether applicants to your course are usually interviewed in the entry requirements on your course page , under ‘Performance at interview’.
You will usually receive the outcome of your application from your academic department about 8 to 10 weeks after the application deadline.
If you are successful, you will receive an email to notify you of this and the department’s certificate of offer will be available to you to download via self-service.
It will set out the steps you need to take to become a student at the University.
It will give details of any conditions on your offer and how to respond to your offer, including any deposit required to secure your place.
For a list of courses that require a deposit, see our Deposits webpage .
Scholarships are usually awarded between late February and June.
If you are awarded a scholarship, you may be notified at the same time as your department (or college) offer or later on, depending on the source of the funding.
If you are accepted to a course that has college membership, you are guaranteed a college place and will automatically be considered by our colleges.
To check if you can expect a college offer, see the college information on your course page .
After you have got an offer from your academic department, it will usually take 8 to 10 weeks to find out which college will offer you a place, though it can sometimes take longer.
If you chose a college when you applied and that college did not offer you a place, you will usually find out 4 to 6 weeks after the department makes you an offer.
Once you have met all the conditions of your offer, you will be sent a final Completion of Conditions letter with a form to return that confirms that you intend to enrol at Oxford.
If you need a student visa for your course, the process can start after you have received your Completion of Conditions.
For more information on the University contract and what you should do before you arrive, see the University's webpages for new students .
We understand that waiting for the outcome of your application can be a tense and difficult time.
Below are answers to some of our most common questions, which you might find helpful while you wait for the outcome of your application.
Once you have submitted your application, you will receive an email confirming that your application has been successfully submitted.
This email will only acknowledge receipt of your application: it does not confirm that your application arrived in time for a particular deadline, nor that you have submitted all of the required documents for your application for it to be assessed by the department.
It is your responsibility to ensure that you submit your application and all of the required supporting documents, and make sure that your referees have submitted their references, by the relevant deadline.
After you have submitted your application, you will have access to the Graduate Applicant Self Service portal , where you can check whether your application has fulfilled all of the requirements for it to be assessed, including the status of your references.
After submitting your application, you will receive a confirmation email.
Your application will be processed by the Graduate Admissions Office.
Processing is usually completed within a few working days but it may take longer around the application deadlines.
Within a few days of submitting your application, you can access the Graduate Applicant Self Service portal and check whether your application has fulfilled all of the requirements for it to be assessed (including the status of your references).
If your application includes all of the required documents in the correct format, the department will assess it and communicate the outcome to you directly within 8-10 weeks of the relevant deadline under which you applied.
If you have not heard back from the department 10 weeks after the relevant deadline, please contact them directly using the contact details on the course page .
You can check whether your application is complete and ready for assessment using the Graduate Applicant Self Service portal.
This platform becomes available within a few days of your application being submitted.
If you submit your application at least one week before the deadline, we will try to let you know whether your application is ready for assessment within one week of you submitting the application.
It is your responsibility to ensure that all necessary documents, including references in support of your application, are received by the deadline, which falls at 12:00 noon (ie midday) UK time.
If you submit your application in the week leading up to the deadline, it is very unlikely that we will be able to check your application and inform you whether your application is ready for assessment, or to assist you with any queries.
During the week leading up to the deadline and the two weeks following the deadline, we will be unable to let you know if we have received your references or documents sent by post and email, as this is not clear to us until we have finished processing the high volume of applications and documents we receive.
Once we have processed all the applications and documents, we will let you know the status of your application.
You can find further information about how your application is assessed in 'After you apply' .
When the academic department has made a decision, you will receive the outcome by email and the outcome will also be available in Self-Service.
We understand that you want to know information on the progress on your application as early as possible, and the University will keep you updated by email throughout the admissions process.
If you submitted your application correctly (including all required supporting documents and at least two references), a decision will be sent to you via email and your Self-Service portal 8-10 weeks after the application deadline.
If you have not heard back from the department 10 weeks after the relevant deadline, please contact them directly using the contact details on the course page.
Decisions are made and communicated by the academic department.
Graduate Admissions will not be able to tell you the outcome of your application.
If you receive an offer of a place, the Self-Service portal is not used to communicate college or funding decisions - these will be sent via email only.
Please note that all timescales are indicative.
Notifications may take longer or you may hear before the usual timeline.
You can find answers to some of the most common questions about the process in our article ' What to expect when you're expecting a decision ' on our Medium blog.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/after-you-apply/scholarships-and-college-place:
If you are offered a place on a course by an academic department, the next step will be finding out if you will be awarded a scholarship, and which of our 43 colleges, societies or permanent private halls you will be a member of.
Funding for graduate courses is competitive, but the University of Oxford offers a number of full or partial graduate scholarships.
For further details about searching for funding as a graduate student visit our dedicated Funding pages, which contain information about how to apply for Oxford scholarships requiring an additional application, details of external funding, loan schemes and other funding sources.
Most Oxford scholarships are awarded between late February and June – for example, Clarendon Fund offers are usually sent out by early April.
You can find notification dates via the Fees, Funding and Scholarship A-Z listing.
An offer of funding can be made along with your departmental or college offer, or separately at any time afterwards.
The University only notifies successful scholarship applicants and offers are usually sent by email.
Competition is very strong but the University expects to be able to offer over 1,000 full or partial graduate scholarships for new students starting in 2025-26.
College membership is a special part of Oxford’s student experience.
There are 43 colleges (including those designated as societies and permanent private halls) around the city.
If you are applying to a course with college membership and have been accepted by the academic department, you are guaranteed a college place.
You can see whether there are colleges associated with your course on your course page .
The process of college placement will begin automatically once your academic department accepts you, and you do not need to contact colleges yourself.
You will usually find out which college will be part of your offer around 8 to 10 weeks after receiving your offer from the academic department .
Once you are accepted by a college, you will not be considered by any other colleges.
If you have been accepted on a course with college membership, and accepted by a college, you will be notified directly by that college by email.
College decisions will not be displayed in Graduate Applicant Self Service.
If you stated a preference for a particular college in your application and that college is not able to accept you then you will be notified as early as possible, often around 4 to 6 weeks after the departmental decision date , and you will be automatically considered by other colleges.
More information on the progress of individual applications through college placement is not available before a final college offer is made and further college preferences cannot be taken into account, so please wait until you are contacted by your accepting college.
If you have queries about the college system in general, please contact Graduate Admissions .
Many colleges offer their own scholarships.
For the majority of college scholarships, it doesn’t matter which college, if any, you state a preference for in your application.
If another college is able to offer you a scholarship, your application can be moved to that college if you accept the scholarship.
Some college scholarships may require you to state a preference for that college when you apply, so check the eligibility requirements carefully.
Once you have a college place, you may want to find out more about what your college has to offer.
There is a detailed summary of each college, including links to college websites and contact details, in our Colleges section.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/after-you-apply/your-offer-and-contract:
The information provided below is for applicants whose course will start in the 2025-26 academic year (please refer to the dates of term for the 2025-26 academic year ).
Please also consult the Courses starting before the 2025-26 academic year section if you applied to start your course before the 2025-26 academic year.
If you have been successful, you will receive an offer from your department outlining any conditions you need to satisfy and any actions you need to take, together with any associated deadlines.
This offer will usually be sent to you by email and further offer documentation will be available in Self-Service.
Your departmental offer constitutes your formal offer of a place at the University of Oxford.
The offer will set out any conditions you need to make to have your place confirmed and will ask whether you wish to accept the offer of a place made to you.
If you accept the offer you will enter into a contract with the University.
You will need to read the offer together with the following three documents, which can be downloaded from Graduate Applicant Self-Service and the Your contract with the University page:
You should read the Terms and Conditions, Course Information Sheet and University Student Handbook carefully before you accept your offer as they set out the content of the contract you will be entering into with the University of Oxford.
We particularly draw your attention to the ‘Changes to Courses’ provisions of the Terms and Conditions, which explain the University’s right to make changes to delivery and services (including the right to move teaching, assessment and other services online) in certain circumstances including during a pandemic.
If you have queries about your offer, you should contact the department directly.
If you are an offer holder and have been asked to arrange for an electronic final transcript to be provided officially to us directly from your institution or an accredited body, please note:
Electronic final transcripts must be sent directly from the institution that issued the transcript to the academic department at the University of Oxford from an official email address from that institution.
This email address must either be recognisable as being from a department/office which issues transcripts at the institution, or from an academic or administrator who is authorised to issue electronic final transcripts.
Alternatively, electronic final transcripts can be provided via a secure link either to a transcript repository on the institution’s website or via an accredited body, such as Parchment or Digitary, from which the academic department can access the document.
Current Oxford students do not need to provide a transcript, but should instead let the academic department know when their results are available.
You may not provide an electronic final transcript yourself, even if you received it from the issuing institution via a secure method.
Your offer will also indicate that you are entitled to cancel your acceptance of a place at the University within a period of 14 calendar days starting from the day after we receive notification of your acceptance of your departmental offer.
You do not have to give any reason for this.
If you have paid a deposit to the department and cancel within this statutory period of 14 calendar days, the University will reimburse your deposit without undue delay.
You can simply email your cancellation of your acceptance of an offer to your department, or if you wish, you can use the cancellation form below.
docx Cancellation form 14.53 KB
On occasion, we are notified of bogus letters claiming to be from the University of Oxford, offering a place and/or scholarship funding to an applicant, and requesting payment in order to secure the offer(s).
Genuine communications from the University will be sent to you from [email protected] or from an ‘ox.ac.uk’ email address.
The University will never ask for money to be paid in order to secure a scholarship.
If you have any concerns about the legitimacy of a document that you have been sent by the University or one of its departments/faculties or colleges then please contact us using our online form .
If you receive an offer from a department, you will then also receive an offer from a college, unless you have received an offer for a non-matriculated course which does not require a college place.
College placement usually takes eight to ten weeks after the departmental offer is made, though in rare cases it can take longer.
The college offer will be sent to you by email.
The college offer will include a Financial Declaration outlining any financial conditions that you will need to meet and the deadline by which you must provide the information required.
The college offer will also explain how your contract with your college will be formed and may attach a form of college contract.
If you satisfy all the conditions set by both the department and the college in their offer, you will be notified of this via email and a Completion of Conditions document will then be available to download via Self-Service.
This letter will include instructions about a form you will need to complete for your University Card if you intend to enrol at the University.
You will be asked to complete and submit the University card form via Self-Service as soon as possible as a condition of your enrolment.
Once you have a confirmed place, consult the University's information on arriving as a new student available from the Oxford Students website to assist you in answering any questions you might have before you arrive and in your first few weeks in Oxford.
Your department and college will also send you all the information you need regarding their services and timetable ready for your arrival in Oxford.
Please note that if you do not meet the conditions of your offer by the deadlines set by the department and the college, you will not be able to enrol at the University.
The University does not normally accept requests for deferral of entry to a later term/year.
You will normally be expected to start your course on the date and term indicated in your departmental offer.
However, you may apply for a deferral of entry, under exceptional circumstances, if you have met all the departmental and college conditions of your offer, including your Financial Declaration, and either of the following two criteria are met:
If you have received an offer for a research course (eg DPhil), and you meet the criteria given above, you can apply to defer for a maximum of either one, two or three terms (ie a full academic year).
If you have received an offer for a taught course (eg MSc, MSt or MPhil), and you meet the criteria given above, you may only apply to defer for a full academic year.
Requests for deferral should be submitted to the relevant department before the start date of the course.
They will be considered at the discretion of departments, and must be approved by the department that has made you an offer, as well as the college that has accepted you.
Deferrals are not granted for more than a maximum of one year.
If you have been granted a deferral or been given permission to start your course in a term later than the one published, please note that the University cannot guarantee the following for your resultant term/year of entry:
If supervision were to become unavailable or the course were to close subsequent to the granting of a deferral to you, the department would inform you that it has become necessary for them to withdraw its offer of a place.
If your request for a delayed start is approved for a particular course, you may not make a new application to the course to which you currently hold a place without giving up that place.
If you wish to apply again to this course, you must withdraw from the place you currently hold.
Applicants who have been granted permission to delay their start and who have not withdrawn, but do reapply for the same course will be contacted to confirm whether they wish to keep their deferred place or proceed with their re-application.
If your request for a delayed start is approved, you will not be considered again for Oxford funding and scholarship opportunities.
If you have already been offered an Oxford scholarship, you should consult the office which awarded it (eg Student Fees and Funding, the college or the department) to find out whether or not your scholarship can also be deferred or be aligned to the delayed start.
If your request for a delayed start is approved and will mean starting at the University within the same academic year as that you originally applied for, your contract with the University will be based on the contractual documents available through the link provided in this offer.
Your college will also require you to complete a new Financial Declaration form.
If your request for a delayed start is approved and will mean starting at the University in a subsequent academic year, you will be sent a letter in that academic year containing a link to a new set of contractual documents (including the Terms and Conditions, Course Information Sheet and Student Handbook) and your contract with the University will be amended to be based on those documents.
The contractual documents accompanying that letter may differ from those available through the link provided with this letter.
You will be entitled to withdraw from the course if the new contractual documents contain a material change which you consider will have an adverse impact on you.
Any deposit you have paid will be held until you take up your place.
If you wish to request a deferral of your date of entry to a later term/year, you must submit your request in writing to your department before you register with the University.
The deadline for registration which applies to you will be set out in your offer.
In your request, please outline your grounds for deferral and how you meet the criteria outlined above.
You will get a written response from your department letting you know if your deferral has been granted.
If you are not eligible to apply for a deferral, or if you want to defer more than a year, you can always submit a completely new application (and you will need to pay the application fee) for the year in which you wish to start.
If you have received an offer for a research course (eg DPhil) and have had your visa application delayed or rejected you may be granted a deferral for one term at a time, up to a maximum of three terms.
If you have received an offer for a taught course (eg MSc, MSt or MPhil) you cannot request to defer on these grounds, and will need to re-apply for the year in which you wish to start.
The University will consider complaints about any aspect of the graduate admissions process that relates to an irregularity in the procedure under which the application has been considered.
For detailed information, please consult our complaints procedure .
If your course started or will start before the 2025-26 academic year , please refer to the information about your contract with the University within our Oxford students pages.
These pages contains links to the following documents, which are ordered by the academic year of entry:
Please ensure that you read/download the documents that correspond to the academic year of entry for your course.
For further information about the current process for receiving, accepting or deferring an offer, please refer to the information in the Applications for entry in the 2025-26 academic year section of this page.
This information may be helpful for applicants who applied near the end of the 2023-24 academic year and have recently received an offer (for entry in the 2024-25 academic year).

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/after-you-apply/accommodation:
There is a wide range of accommodation available in Oxford for graduate students, provided both by the colleges and the University.
In addition, many graduate students secure accommodation in the private sector.
The University can't guarantee accommodation to its graduate students.
However, in 2018-19, 72% of full-time graduate 'freshers' (first-year students) were housed in college or University accommodation, and 53% of all full-time graduate students.
If you are offered a place on a course that offers college membership (ie a matriculated course), your college will usually explain their process for applying for accommodation when you receive your college offer.
Please be aware that if you apply after the main December or January deadline for your course, you'll typically receive a college offer much later than the majority of applicants.
Don't worry if any of the following conditions apply:
There are still options available and it is recommended that you consider the following in the order shown:
The Other options section of this page provides further details.
If you have a disability which means that you have specific requirements related to your accommodation, please make sure that you declare this when you apply to your course.
Colleges (and the University) have a range of rooms that can cater to a variety of needs, but these are allocated throughout the admissions cycle, and so suitable accommodation may not be available if your needs are not known until a late stage.
If you've declared a disability on your application form, you'll be contacted by the Disability Advisory Service with further advice if you receive an offer of a graduate place at the University.
Make sure that your College Accommodation Office (or the University's Graduate Accommodation Office) is aware of any specific needs when you apply for their accommodation.
Please note that no applicant can be guaranteed accommodation.
The University and its colleges cannot ordinarily accommodate part-time students, with the exception of Kellogg College and Keble College.
If you are a part-time student and need to stay in Oxford for short blocks of time, some colleges offer their part-time college members the opportunity to book short-term accommodation.
Please speak to your college directly to see if they are able to help you.
The University Club and the Department for Continuing Education offer overnight accommodation.
You may also find appropriate accommodation advertised in the Gazette or through University Rooms (an external website).
Please note that the the inclusion of a link to an external website on this page should not be understood to be an endorsement of that website, the site's owners, or their products and services.
Colleges provide a variety of accommodation options.
Some colleges will have various different options, others may have a dedicated block (or blocks) of accommodation of a similar type/cost.
Some colleges are able to guarantee accommodation for their incoming graduates, other colleges may only be able to accommodate a proportion of their graduates.
If your college is unable to provide accommodation, the University's Graduate Accommodation Office may be able to help or you may need to seek accommodation in the private sector.
Find out more in the University and Private accommodation section.
Your college will outline the accommodation that they have available, and explain their application process, when you receive your college offer letter.
Please note that while accommodation can be requested, there is no guarantee that this will be available.
The table below provides a breakdown of the typical college accommodation that was available to graduate students in 2024-25.
These costs are likely to increase annually.
Please check with the college for the most accurate amounts.
You can use the filers below to select what types of accommodation are shown in the table.
For single standard rooms at Merton College, a fuel allowance of 3000 units per year (1000 units per term) is provided to each student.
Any units used above this amount are charged at £0.11 per unit.
Occupants of flats at Merton College pay all bills directly.
If your college isn't able to house you or you have been offered a place on a non-matriculated course, the University has a range of accommodation options for full-time graduate students, including accommodation for couples and families.
For more information on graduate student properties and how to apply for accommodation, visit the University's Graduate Accommodation Office website and contact the team.
The Collegiate Accommodation Support Service (CASS) is an initiative designed to assist graduate students in finding suitable accommodation within Oxford Colleges.
This service is particularly helpful for students who have not been able to secure a room directly through their college or the University’s Graduate Accommodation Office.
CASS works collaboratively with Colleges across the University to identify and offer available rooms to eligible graduate students.
Priority is given to fresher graduates, although a waiting list may be maintained for other students, who may be offered accommodation if space becomes available.
For further information, including how to apply and eligibility criteria , please visit the CASS website.
If you are considering private accommodation, please be aware that the University's residence requirements apply to all full-time students.
If you decide to rent private accommodation, the landlord or letting agent will expect you to sign a tenancy agreement or contract.
Make sure that you understand the tenancy agreement/contract and what your obligations are before you sign it.
The tenancy agreement/contract should make sense and be easy to understand.
As part of the tenancy agreement/contract you may typically be required to pay a deposit, undertake a credit check, and provide a guarantor.
You may be asked to pay a deposit to cover the cost of any potential damage to the property or its contents (eg an amount up to 5 weeks' rent).
The deposit must be placed in a Tenancy Deposit Protection Scheme within 30 days of giving it to your landlord.
You may be asked to undertake a credit check and will typically be charged a fee for this.
You may be asked to provide a guarantor who will be legally responsible for paying the rent if you do not.
The landlord or letting agent may have conditions for deciding whether a guarantor is suitable (eg the guarantor must not be retired or live abroad).
If you are unable to provide a suitable guarantor you may be unable to rent the property, or the landlord/letting agent may require you to pay a larger deposit and/or a substantial period of rent in advance.
If you live with others and sign a joint tenancy the guarantors will be responsible for the rent should any of your housemates fail to pay their rent.
The Oxford University Students Union (Oxford SU) provides guidance on living out and can help you if you have questions or concerns about accommodation.
You can also search for properties to let on the Oxford SU Accommodation Service website.
Private accommodation is often advertised in the University Gazette , which is published weekly during term time.
If you are new to renting, or renting in the UK, Shelter can provide you with lots of useful information about how renting works, the types of tenancies available, and what to look out for in your contract.
You may find it useful to search external websites, such as the Daily Info website and specialist student accommodation websites such as Rightmove for students or Student Accommodation UK .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/after-you-apply/arriving:
We aim to make all our students feel welcome as soon as they arrive in Oxford.
Once you’ve fulfilled all your offer conditions and confirmed that you intend to take up your place, you will receive information by email about enrolling as a student at the University.
On the Oxford Students website, you can find a checklist of things to do when you are preparing for study at Oxford .
This includes information about enrolling as a student at the University.
Make sure the contact information we hold for you is correct: this will be used to send you important information including our 'Preparing for Oxford' emails until you have your University email account.
You will receive pre-arrival information from your academic department.
If you are studying for a matriculated course, your college will also send you information about your college membership, the college’s facilities and services, and arrival arrangements.
There is plenty of support available for international students before you arrive and during your studies.
We aim to make all our students feel as welcome as possible and to help them settle in quickly.
If you need a visa to study at Oxford, you can find detailed guidance on the University's visa and immigration pages.
The Oxford Student website offers lots of advice on getting ready to study at Oxford , including information about accommodation, finances, insurance and medical treatment, travelling to Oxford and adjusting to life in the UK.
The Orientation for New Students podcast series has insights and advice from current students, and is particularly relevant for students from outside the UK.
If you have been made an offer for entry in 2025-26, you may be able to use the Language Centre’s English language pre-sessional course , which is normally run online in the summer, as an avenue to meet any English language conditions you have been set.
Oxford’s academic year is divided into three terms — Michaelmas, Hilary and Trinity — and three vacations.
Most of our graduate courses begin in Michaelmas term (October).
However, a small number begin in Hilary term (January) or Trinity term (April).
Some graduate courses do not follow the University’s standard eight-week terms.
Make sure you read the pre-arrival information you receive carefully.
This may include details about induction events and Freshers' Week, which take place before term starts (see Your first few weeks on the Oxford Students website for more information).
Your department will let you know the dates of term for your course, and when you should arrive in Oxford.
For more information, visit the University's dates of term page.
You will also receive a timetable of activities you will need to attend during your first few weeks.
Be aware that pre-sessional courses, orientation events, teaching and examinations may be held outside of official term dates.
University-wide orientation events for international students take place at the Oxford Student Union Freshers’ Fair.
Here, you will be able to talk to advisors from central University services.
Visa presentations are also held at the start of term.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/after-you-apply/applicant-surveys:
The University of Oxford seeks feedback from applicants in a variety of ways to understand how it can improve its service.
Applicant surveys cover the application process and the applicant experience both before and after the offer stage, including those who withdrew after being made offers.
Applicants can also provide feedback at any time on the quality of our FAQ pages .
In our 2022-23 applicant surveys:
We use your feedback to identify and prioritise initiatives to improve the applicant experience.
In the past few years, the following initiatives have been implemented:
The University continues to seek feedback beyond the application stage and actively engages with current students to provide them with the opportunity to have their say about life at Oxford.
The results from our student surveys and how we've responded to the feedback are accessible to applicants via our dedicated feedback and surveys page .
We are constantly looking to improve the service we provide.
If you have feedback on any aspect of the applicant experience, please contact Graduate Admissions .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/access:
The University and colleges are doing more than ever to increase the number of promising postgraduate students from under-represented groups at Oxford.
UNIQ+ is our flagship graduate access programme aimed at talented undergraduates who would find continuing into postgraduate study a challenge for reasons other than their academic ability.
Academic Futures is a series of scholarship programmes that will address underrepresentation and help improve equality, diversity and inclusion in our graduate student body.
A range of scholarships are available to support applicants from under-represented groups to undertake graduate study at Oxford.
In addition to UNIQ+, Academic Futures, Close the Gap and the scholarships described above, we have launched other pioneering initiatives to improve access to graduate study , including:
The University is also taking positive action under the Equality Act 2010 to tackle the underrepresentation of UK students from Black, Bangladeshi and Pakistani backgrounds at Oxford and to encourage more students from these groups to apply for graduate study.
Close the Gap aims to transform doctoral student selection to develop a socially and epistemically just and inclusive environment for research.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/access/uniq-plus:
UNIQ+ Research Internships are aimed at talented undergraduates from under-represented groups, who would find continuing into postgraduate study a challenge for reasons other than their academic ability.
This section of our website is designed for those applying for our 2025 programme.
Applications for our 2025 programme have now closed - find out how applications are assessed
Read about the opportunities and benefits of applying to UNIQ+.
Check your eligibility for our UNIQ+ Research Internships programme.
View the UNIQ+ Research Internships projects available in 2025.
Read our guide for applying to the UNIQ+ Research Internships programme.
Find answers to your questions about eligibility, research projects, how to apply, and more.
What happens once you have submitted your UNIQ+ application?
Read our privacy notices for applicants and attendees:
Read our policies on criminal convictions and complaints and appeals:
Information for referees providing a reference for a UNIQ+ Research Internships application.
Closed to applications for entry in 2025
Register your email address for news about future UNIQ+ Research Internships and our other graduate access programmes and events.
Check our frequently asked questions:
UNIQ+ FAQs

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/access/academic-futures:
Academic Futures is a series of scholarship programmes that will address under-representation and help improve equality, diversity and inclusion in our graduate student body.
Up to 50 full awards are available across the three programme streams, and you can find further information on each stream on their individual tabs.
The University relies on bringing the very best minds from across the world together, whatever their race, gender, religion or background to create new ideas, insights and innovations to change the world for the better.
The information on this page is provided in addition to information about the full range of options for funding graduate study at Oxford , which can be found in our dedicated Fees and funding section.
">Video of Academic Futures: Realising potential and increasing diversity in our graduate students
These scholarships are generously supported by:
The Black Academic Futures Scholarships offer UK Black and Mixed Black students financial support to pursue graduate study at Oxford.
These awards are made possible by the generous support of funding partners across the University and colleges, and the scholarships are open to all academic subjects.
Each scholarship will cover your course fees in full and will provide you with a grant for living costs.
Awards are made for the full duration of your fee liability for your course.
These scholarships are available for applicants who are ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom, who are of Black or Mixed Black ethnicity and who hold an offer for either a taught or research postgraduate degree, starting in the 2025-26 academic year.
This includes all full-time and part-time DPhil and master’s courses.
You must have been Ordinarily Resident in the UK for three years before the start date of the course for which you hold an offer.
This residence must not have been for the main purpose of receiving full time education.
An exception to this is if you have been temporarily resident outside of the UK for the purpose of taking up temporary employment and would have been resident in the UK but for the temporary employment.
These scholarships support students across the University and are open to all subject areas, with some funding dedicated to supporting students on specific courses.
">Video of Academic Futures: Supporting Black British graduate students
To apply for the Black Academic Futures Scholarship, all you have to do is submit your completed graduate course application, including ethnicity information, by either the November, December, or January deadline (whichever is relevant for your course) and you will automatically be considered.
You do not need to submit any additional documents and there is no separate scholarship application form for these awards.
If you are eligible for these scholarships, you will be considered automatically regardless of which college (if any) you state as your preference on your graduate application form.
However, some of these awards are only tenable at specific colleges and successful applicants will be transferred to the relevant college in order to take up the scholarship if applicable.
All successful applicants will be contacted by email and the majority of offers are sent out in May.
The Refugee Academic Futures Scholarships offer financial support to pursue graduate study at Oxford to students who are refugees or other people with lived experience of displacement.
Thanks to the generous support of funding partners across the University and colleges, as well as support from the student members of the University of Oxford and the Oxford University Student Union, the University has been able to offer scholarships to refugees and other forced migrants since the 2016-2017 academic year.
These awards have been offered through the Oxford Student Refugee Campaign and the Oxford Refugee Scheme, and have now been incorporated into the Academic Futures programme, through the creation of the Refugee Academic Futures scheme.
The scholarships are open to all academic subjects.
Each scholarship will cover your course fees and will provide you with a grant for living costs.
Scholars will be offered opportunities to receive mentoring and a bespoke programme of pre-arrival, on-course, and post-completion support.
The Palestine Crisis Scholarship Scheme is a separate scholarship programme and you can find full details on the dedicated webpage for this scheme .
The Refugee Academic Futures scholarships are available for applicants who have been displaced due to conflict, persecution, or other serious human rights violations or deprivations, whether within or outside their country of origin, and who hold an offer for either a taught or research postgraduate degree, starting in the 2025-26 academic year.
These scholarships support students across the University and are open to all subject areas.
We will contact you to ask you to apply for these scholarships if you have:
Please note, if you do not tick the box on the application form to indicate that you have a displacement background you will not be invited to apply for the scholarship, even if you have mentioned this elsewhere in your application.
If you are eligible but did not complete the question on your course application about refugee/displaced status then you can still email us (via [email protected] ) by 4th April 2025 to confirm that you wish to apply.
If you are eligible for these scholarships, you will be considered regardless of which college (if any) you state as your preference on your graduate application form.
All applications for the Refugee Academic Futures scholarship will be checked for eligibility and assessed by a panel of academics.
The panel will review applicants' admissions application and Refugee Academic Futures application and will agree a priority ordering of candidates within the limits of available funding.
All Refugee Academic Futures applicants will be contacted with the outcome of their scholarship application by email, usually by the end of June.
Final college placements will also be confirmed for awards that are tenable at specific colleges only.
If you are offered and accept a scholarship, this means your funding is now secure as long as you meet the conditions of your offer of a place to study at Oxford.
If you would like further information on the scholarship and the support programme it provides you can contact the Oxford Sanctuary Community via [email protected] .
The Care-Experienced Academic Futures Scholarships offer financial support to pursue graduate study at Oxford to students who have experienced being in care in the UK to pursue graduate study at Oxford.
We spoke with graduate students Abed and Alexi about their experiences at Oxford and the impact that the Academic Futures scholarship programme has had on their pursuit of graduate study:
">Video of Academic Futures: Supporting graduate students with experience of care
For the purposes of selection, ‘care experienced’ means someone who, at any stage of their life before the age of 18, and for any length of time, has spent time:
You do not have to meet the legal definition of being a 'care leaver' to be considered for this scholarship.
Support is being provided by funding partners across the University and colleges.
These scholarships are open to applicants to all academic subjects and will provide funding packages to assist with course fees and living costs.
The Care-Experienced Academic Futures scholarships are open to applications from those who have been in care in the UK at some point in their life, and faced barriers to progressing their education.
Applicants must hold an offer to commence a postgraduate degree, starting in the 2025-26 academic year.
this includes all full-time and part-time DPhil and master's courses.
Available awards include the Oxford-Rees Graduate Scholarship, which supports Care-Experienced Social Sciences candidates.
We will contact you to ask you to apply for these scholarships and complete a separate scholarship form if you have:
Please note, if you do not tick the box on the application form to indicate that you are care-experienced you will not be invited to apply for the scholarship, even if you have mentioned that you are care-experienced elsewhere in your application.
If you are eligible but did not complete the question on your course application then you can still email us (via [email protected] ) by 4th April 2025 to confirm that you wish to apply.
All applications for the Care-Experienced Academic Futures scholarship will be checked for eligibility and assessed by a panel of academics.
The panel will review applicants' admissions applications and Care-Experienced Academic Futures applications and will agree a priority ordering of candidates within the limits of available funding.
All applicants will be contacted with the outcome of their scholarship application by email, usually by the end of June.
Our dedicated Fees and funding pages provide further information about the full range of options for funding graduate study at Oxford .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/access/scholarships-and-funding:
The University is proud to offer a range of scholarships to support graduate offer holders from under-represented groups.
Oxford aims to attract and admit students with outstanding academic potential, whatever their background, providing a unique experience including the chance to work with leading academics in world-class facilities.
Equality, diversity and inclusion are at the heart of Oxford's academic mission.
A range of graduate scholarships available for under-represented groups can be found on this page.
We have categorised these scholarships into themes according to their primary eligibility criteria, as a result some may appear in multiple categories.
Select each scholarship below to find out further information about that scholarship's eligibility criteria and how to apply.
To be considered for most scholarships, you simply need to apply by the December or January application deadline for your course (shown on the relevant course page ).
The information below is provided in addition to the information about the full range of options for funding graduate study at Oxford , which can be found in our dedicated Fees and funding section.
These scholarships are available for applicants who are ordinarily resident in or nationals of a Caribbean country, who identify as of Black or Mixed Black ethnicity, and who are applying to any full or part-time master’s or DPhil course at Oxford.
Country restrictions apply.
Full eligibility criteria is available on the A-Z of scholarships page .
Open to UK Black and Mixed Black applicants to full or part-time master's or DPhil courses.
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on how to apply is available on the Academic Futures webpage.
Open to graduate applicants of Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islander Australian nationality.
Course and country restrictions apply.
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on how to apply is available on the Green Templeton College website and more information can be found on the Charlie Perkins Scholarship Trust website.
In October 2021 the DTP launched a scheme to increase the number of studentship awards made through the standard route competition to Black and Global Majority students who are ordinarily resident in the UK.
Course restrictions apply.
More information is available on the DTP website .
Open to UK Black and Mixed Black students as part of the University's Black Academic Futures scholarships to those applying to specific MSc or DPhil courses in Mathematical subjects.
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on how to apply is available on the Mathematical Institute website and information about Jane Street can be found on the Jane Street website.
The Scholarships Programme offers 100% tuition fee Masters scholarships to support British Muslims to study at UK universities, and is aimed at those who wish to advance their careers and bring about positive change to their communities, and beyond.
More information is available on the Jesus College website .
The University of Oxford and the Mastercard Foundation have established an innovative and ambitious partnership under the Mastercard Foundation Scholars Program and the Africa Oxford Initiative ( AfOx ) to offer a range of scholarships for African candidates applying for taught postgraduate courses at the University of Oxford for 2025/26 entry.
The Mastercard Foundation Scholars Program at the University of Oxford specifically emphasises groups who have historically been under-represented, including but not limited to female scholars, people from refugee and displaced backgrounds and scholars with accessibility needs.
Full eligibility criteria is available on the A-Z of scholarships page and the Mastercard Foundation AfOx Scholarships page .
Open to UK and North American Black and Mixed Black applicants to the MBA.
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on how to apply is available on the Saïd Business School website.
In October 2022 the DTP launched a scheme to increase the number of studentship awards made to British Black or Mixed Black students.
More information is available on the DTP website.
Open to UK Black and Mixed Black applicants applying to a master's or DPhil programme.
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on how to apply is available on the University College website.
Scholarships will be awarded on the basis of academic merit, relevance of studies to the Oxford India Centre for Sustainable Development’s interdisciplinary aims, understanding of the development challenges faced by India, and leadership and entrepreneurial potential.
Financial need will also be taken into account.
Full Eligibility criteria and guidance on how to apply is available on the Somerville College website.
Open to former undergraduate Crankstart scholars applying to pursue postgraduate study at Oxford.
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on how to apply is available on the Crankstart Graduate Scholarships website .
The maximum value of this award is up to £2,500 per annum for the agreed course as a contribution towards your course fees on the MSc in Medical Education course.
The award is made for the full duration of the period of fee liability for the agreed course, subject to satisfactory academic progress being made.
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on how to apply is available on the Department of Education website.
Open to UK-based students who receive benefits because they are on a low income.
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on how to apply is available on the Department for Continuing Education website.
The Mathematical Institute have partnered with the Martingale Postgraduate Foundation's programme of scholarships for students wishing to pursue postgraduate studies in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) subjects.
These awards are open to applicants to STEM DPhil & MSc courses, with preference given to those whose family income has been, or would be, a barrier to postgraduate education.
More information about eligibility and criteria can be found on the Martingale Foundation website.
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on how to apply is available on the Faculty of Law website.
This new studentship will provide full financial support to a talented UK-resident applicant from an underprivileged background.
Details are available on the Department of Population Health website .
Regent’s Park College is offering a postgraduate scholarship worth up to £4,000 for a full-time home student who is currently engaged in, or has been accepted for, masters-level studies in a humanities subject at the University of Oxford.
More information about eligibility and criteria can be found on the Regent's Park College website .
The Laidlaw Scholarships are intended to encourage extraordinary women with clear leadership potential to enrol onto the Oxford MBA programme when they would not have previously considered the qualification due to financial constraints.
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on how to apply is available on the Saïd Business School website.
The information below is provided in addition to the information about the full range of options for funding graduate study at Oxford , which can be found in our dedicated Fees and Funding section.
The Refugee Academic Futures scheme offers financial support to pursue graduate study at Oxford to students who are refugees, or other people with lived experience of displacement.
The Hope Scholarship and Leadership Programme has been created to support refugees and those who have been displaced due to conflict, persecution, or other serious human rights violations or deprivations, whether this is outside or within their country.
This scholarship will be subject to the same eligibility criteria as the Oxford-Weidenfeld and Hoffmann Scholarships and further information can be found on this on the Weidenfeld Scholarship web page .
These scholarships are available for applicants who are ordinarily resident in or nationals of a Caribbean country, who identify as of Black or Mixed Black ethnicity, and who are applying to any full or part-time master’s or DPhil course at Oxford.
In partnership with the Mastercard Foundation AfOx Scholarship, this opportunity is available to female master's students domiciled in Africa.
More information can be found on the Corpus Christi webpage.
The maximum value of this award is up to £2,500 per annum for the agreed course as a contribution towards your course fees.
The Department of International Development offer a number of departmental awards to support students on their courses.
Selection is based on academic ability and citizenship of (and normal residence in) a developing country as defined by the United Nations, with a preference for candidates from Sub-Saharan Africa.
Full details can be found on the Department of International Development website .
FirstRand Oxford African Studies Scholarship for an MSc in African Studies at the Oxford School of Global and Area Studies at the University of Oxford.
FirstRand has entered into a partnership, for another four years, with the Oxford School of Global and Area Studies to allow an outstanding South African student to study for an MSc in African Studies at Wadham College.
More information about the scholarship can be found on the FirstRand website.
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on how to apply is available on the Green Templeton College website and more information can be found on the Charlie Perkins Scholarship Trust website .
One scholarship worth approximately £13k for any graduate degree course at Keble College, with preference given to an individual from Sierra Leone or a Yoruba-speaker from Nigeria.
More information is available on the Keble website .
Open to female applicants ordinarily resident in an African country.
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on the application process is available on the Saïd Business School website.
Open to students from low and middle income countries.
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on how to apply is available on the Nuffield Department of Medicine website.
Open to female applicants to MPLS master's courses who are ordinarily resident in low to middle-income countries.
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on how to apply is available on the Optiver Foundation Scholarships webpage.
These scholarships are open to applicants to full-time master's and DPhil courses who are resident in, and nationals of, specific majority-Muslim countries.
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on how to apply is available on the Oxford Centre for Islamic Studies Scholarships webpage.
The Oxford-Reuben Graduate Scholarships, established through an £80m gift from the Reuben Foundation, support students with outstanding academic potential.
The University has supplemented these scholarships with an additional £7.5m.
Scholarships cover full fees and a living stipend (UKRI equivalent).
Eligible applicants include those applying to the MPP, MSc in Public Policy Research, or DPhil in Public Policy, with preference for candidates from under-represented socio-economic groups.
The application process involves completing the Blavatnik School of Government Scholarship Questionnaire, sent to all offer holders.
Full information about the scholarship can be found on the Blavatnik School of Government website .
Applicants must be ordinarily resident in India and identify with one or more of the following categories
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on the application process is available on the Somerville College website.
Up to two full/partial scholarships are available for applicants who are ordinarily resident in Pakistan.
You should be intending to return to Pakistan once your course is completed.
If you have previously studied outside Pakistan you will not normally be considered unless there are exceptional circumstances which explain why you have studied abroad.
The size and duration of awards vary according to each scholar's circumstances.
The scholarship is jointly funded by the University and the Vicky Noon Educational Foundation.
More information can be found on the Blavatnik School of Government website .
Open to applicants to any full-time one-year taught Masters course to which Wadham admits.
In both cases they should be normally resident in Malawi, Zambia or Zimbabwe, and they will be expected to show evidence of their intention to return to their home country on completion of their course.
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on how to apply is available on Wadham College's website .
Applicants for the following courses: MSc African Studies; Master in Public Policy (MPP); and MSc in Sustainability, Enterprise and the Environment.
Applicants will be ordinarily resident in South Africa, and have not previously studied at a university outside of South Africa.
The successful applicant will demonstrate the potential to be a destiny changer, and to rise to a position of leadership and influence.
This scholarship is for full-time study only (not part-time).
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on how to apply is available on Wadham College's website.
One MBA scholarship covering 50% of course fees is open to female candidates from African countries.
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on the application process is available on the Saïd Business School website.
The MSc Energy Systems Scholarship is open to offer-holding applicants to the MSc Energy Systems programme, with preference for female students from developing countries.
Open to female applicants applying for the Executive MBA programme.
Open to female applicants applying to the MBA.
Open to female applicants accepted for an MBA.
Scholarships are awarded on the basis of exceptional academic merit and financial need.
Tenable at Green Templeton College only.
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on how to apply is available on the Green Templeton College website and further information can be found on the Saïd Business School website.
The Henrietta Jex Blake Scholarship offers an award for Lady Margaret Hall (LMH) students who are continuing their academic journey by pursuing a further graduate degree at LMH.
This scholarship is specifically available to DPhil students who are in at least their second year of study.
The selection for this award is based on academic merit, recognising and supporting outstanding scholars in their advanced research endeavours.
For full guidance on how to apply and details on eligibility criteria, please get in contact with [email protected] .
This scholarship was created by Linacre alumni in honour of pioneering women like Madge Adam.
Dr Adam was the first in a long line of postgraduate research students in Solar Physics at Oxford, and later she became internationally known for her work on the nature of sunspots and their magnetic fields.
For female identifying students studying for any taught or research degree in Science.
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on how to apply can be found on the Linacre College webpage.
Open to female applicants applying for the MSc in Global Healthcare Leadership.
Open to female applicants applying for the MSc in Major Programme Management.
The Taylor Bursaries (of up to £5,000 per annum) were established by the gift of Mr Bernard Taylor, restorer of Rycote Park and Chapel, the original home of Lord Williams.
They are available to support students of Lord Williams's Thame or any publicly funded state secondary schools in the historic area of South Oxfordshire to attend the Universities of either Oxford or Cambridge.
The bursaries are designed to help women and girls* who study STEM subjects (Science, Technology, Engineering, Maths).
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on how to apply is available on the New College website.
The scholarships include course fees and stipend for up to four years at the standard rate set by UK Research and Innovation (UKRI).
Oxford-Emmy Graduate Scholars will also join the Emmy Network’s international community of senior fellows, visiting fellows and graduate scholars, which offers opportunities for enhanced professional development and interdisciplinary networking across diverse disciplines ranging from mathematics and physics to biology and economics.
The Emmy Network will host an annual conference at Keble College, to bring leading figures from relevant fields to interact with scholars and their peers in Oxford.
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on how to apply can be found on the Keble College website.
Open to female applicants of any nationality to complete a standard four-year DPhil in Mathematics beginning in 2024/25.
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on how to apply is available on the Mathematical Institute website.
Open to female applicants applying for a Diploma programme.
The Adara Foundation, a non-profit social enterprise in Nigeria, focuses on empowering women and advancing education in Africa.
The Foundation shares Saïd Business School’s commitment to greater gender parity in education and supports our aim to foster a global MBA community with representation from all over the world.
One scholarships worth £20,000 is available for exceptional female candidates on the MSc Financial Economics.
This scholarship is open to female applicants who are ordinarily resident in Europe.
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on how to apply can be found on the Saïd Business School website.
A fully-funded scholarship, awarded on the basis of academic merit and potential, for a woman from Afghanistan to complete a one-year Master’s course in any subject.
See the Oriel College website for more details.
The Anthony Wood Bursaries* (of up to £5,000 per annum) were established by the gift of an alumnus of Lord Williams's School, Thame.
The donor's intent is to help students from Lord Williams's, Thame or other publicly funded secondary schools in the historic area of South Oxfordshire to attend New College, or other colleges at the University of Oxford.
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on how to apply can be found on the New College website.
Open to care-experienced graduate applicants.
The maximum value of this award is up to £2,000 per annum for the agreed course as a contribution towards your course fees.
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on how to apply is available on the Department of Education Website.
These scholarships are open to applicants who are ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and from a Muslim community, apply to a full-time master's or DPhil course (with preference given to those from a financially disadvantaged household).
Full eligibility criteria and guidance on how to apply is available on the Oxford Centre for Islamic Studies Scholarships webpage .
These fellowships enhance and extend the Oxford MBA’s existing LGBTQ+ network.
The Reaching Out MBA LGBTQ+ Fellowships are a joint effort between and Reaching Out MBA (ROMBA) to develop the LGBTQ+ and active ally business leaders of tomorrow.
This partnership strengthens the School's reputation for inclusivity and helps to increase the number of students interested in promoting the empowerment and representation of LGBTQ+ students in top business schools.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/access/close-the-gap:
Eight departments – two in each of four divisions in the University of Oxford (Humanities; Medical Sciences; Mathematical, Physical and Life Sciences; and Social Sciences) – are taking part in Close the Gap.
The ‘Close the Gap’ project is an equal partnership between the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge.
It is one of thirteen projects to improve access to doctoral study for UK Black, Asian and minority ethnic students , which are partially funded by the Office for Students and Research England.
Close the Gap has developed and is testing new disciplinary-specific, race-literate, fair selection processes that are designed to bring about meaningful change in postgraduate research and doctoral candidate selection.
In particular, it is working to address the underrepresentation of Black British, British Bangladeshi and British Pakistani students in postgraduate research in the UK overall and in all major discipline groups at doctoral level in the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge.
Visit the Close the Gap website
Working with external partners and collaborators Blueprint for All, CRAC, Rare Recruitment and Leading Routes, Close the Gap is trialling a number of initiatives in some of the participating departments this year.
This initiative aims to improve transparency in the application process, by improving guidelines for applicants and supervisors on contacting supervisors at the pre-application stage, and what to expect.
Improving the design and use of assessment and selection criteria: this initiative reviews assessment and selection criteria with the aim of better assessing research potential, and has developed guidelines and support materials on assessing applications from applicants with non-traditional academic or work trajectories, or from diverse backgrounds.
The University currently collects socio-economic data from candidates who apply for graduate study.
This data is also used by the courses taking part in this initiative to better understand the context of an applicant’s achievements and the challenges that they might have faced in their education to date.
All departmental staff involved in implementing interventions are being supported through technical briefings, for example, on how to use contextual data, as well as wider coaching to support change management and specific aspects of assessment (eg interviewing).
Close the Gap is also contributing to the develop of a strategic admissions framework to embed its work and that of all other widening participation initiatives at the level of the University.
Through fair and just postgraduate taught and research admissions and recruitment processes, the University of Oxford aims to contribute to a more plural, diverse, and, hence, richer research and teaching environment.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/access/policies:
The privacy policies for our graduate access mailing list and online events can be found below.
You can also read the data privacy and criminal convictions policies for UNIQ+ Research Internship applicants and offer-holders, which are hosted in the UNIQ+ section of this website.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/msc-advanced-computer-science:
The MSc in Advanced Computer Science at Oxford has been designed to teach a range of advanced topics to graduates of computer science and other mathematical disciplines.
As in other branches of applied mathematics and engineering, improvements in the practice of computing necessitate a deep and broad engagement with the foundations of computer science.
Recognising this, this full-time, twelve-month MSc has been designed to teach the mathematical principles of specification, design and efficient implementation of computing technologies.
The MSc is designed to combine theory and practice.
It teaches the advanced techniques and ideas that are being developed in application domains (such as machine learning, verification and computer security) and the rich and diverse theories that underpin them.
These include models of computation and data, and mathematical analysis of programs and algorithms.
The course aims:
The Department of Computer Science is committed to the development and application of effective theory based on realistic practice.
The MSc in Advanced Computer Science is heavily informed by the department’s consultation and collaboration with industry, and some of the modules were developed through consultation and collaboration with industry.
The department believes that only by the interplay of theory and practice can you be trained properly in such a rapidly advancing subject.
Practice alerts us to real contemporary problems - theory is a shield against professional obsolescence.
Entrants to the course will come from either a computer science or mathematical background.
You may be a recent graduate in computer science and will supplement your knowledge with the kind of sound mathematical basis which is not always found in undergraduate courses.
If you are a graduate in mathematics you will apply your training in the context of a rigorous application of the fundamental techniques of computer science.
You will develop knowledge and understanding of a formal disciplined approach to computer science, a range of relevant concepts, tools and techniques, the principles underpinning these techniques and the ability to apply them in novel situations.
On subsequent employment, you will be able to select techniques most appropriate to your working environment, adapt and improve them as necessary, establish appropriate design standards for both hardware and software, train colleagues in the observance of sound practices, and keep abreast of research and development.
The academic year is split into three terms of eight weeks but work on the MSc course continues throughout the year and is not restricted just to term time.
During the three terms of the course, you will choose from modules on various aspects of computer science.
Most modules will last for one term and will be between 16 to 24 lectures.
In addition, all modules will have associated classes and some may also have practical sessions (labs) associated with them.
In the third term (Trinity term) you will undertake a dissertation.
Subject to meeting the relevant requirements (which may depend upon your module choices, dissertation subject and other academic factors), you may have the opportunity to transfer to a specialist stream of the course prior to completing your dissertation: either the MSc Advanced Computer Science (Artificial Intelligence) or the MSc Advanced Computer Science (Foundations of Computer Science).
A typical week for a student taking three courses in each of the first two terms may be as follows:
Total - 35 hours
The split of work may differ depending on whether a course has practicals associated with it.
This should be taken as a guide only.
Examples of modules offered:
The options that are offered may vary from year to year as the course develops, and according to the interests of teaching staff.
The above examples illustrate the kinds of topics that have been offered recently.
The course is full-time and requires attendance in Oxford.
Full-time students are subject to the University's Residence requirements.
As a graduate student, you will have access to the University's wide range of world-class resources including libraries, museums, galleries, digital resources and IT services.
The Bodleian Libraries is the largest library system in the UK.
It includes the main Bodleian Library and libraries across Oxford, including major research libraries and faculty, department and institute libraries.
Together, the Libraries hold more than 13 million printed items, provide access to e-journals, and contain outstanding special collections including rare books and manuscripts, classical papyri, maps, music, art and printed ephemera.
The University's IT Services is available to all students to support with core university IT systems and tools, as well as many other services and facilities.
IT Services also offers a range of IT learning courses for students, to support with learning and research.
The Department of Computer Science's teaching network comprises over 80 PCs located in the Department of Computer Science and the Practicals Laboratory of the Thom Building, the main building of the Department of Engineering Science.
The machines in the Thom Building are mostly used for undergraduate practical sessions, though you may occasionally have a practical session scheduled here.
Additionally there is a server-based remote access service available, such as personal laptop at home or through networked computers in college computer rooms.
Linux is used throughout the teaching network.
The Department of Computer Science Library contains books, monographic series, journals, technical reports and past theses covering the main research interests of the department.
It is principally for use by graduate students and staff.
You will also be able to access other relevant libraries elsewhere in the University such as the Radcliffe Science Library, the Whitehead Library (at the Mathematical Institute for numerical analysts and formal mathematicians), and the Engineering Science Library (especially for those interested in robotics and machine vision).
The Department of Computer Science houses lecture theatres and seminar rooms in which most of the University lectures in Computer Science take place.
There are department kitchens on each floor and a central common room where you can meet informally.
There is an active social committee organising events for staff, students and families.
The allocation of thesis supervision for the course is the responsibility of the Department of Computer Science and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under some circumstances it may be appropriate for a student's thesis work to be supervised by a faculty member outside the department of Computer Science.
You will be assigned an initial supervisor on arrival in Oxford whose role is to act as an academic advisor during the first two terms of the course.
In the third term, a thesis supervisor will be agreed on.
For the taught modules, the mode of assessment shall be either written assignment or written examination, dependent on the module you are taking.
A dissertation, completed independently under the guidance of an expert supervisor, on a topic of your choice and approved by the supervisor and MSc Course Director will be submitted by the end of the third term (Trinity Term).
Many past students have progressed to PhD-level studies at leading universities; other have pursued careers in industry.
The University will seek to deliver this course in accordance with the description set out in this course page.
However, there may be situations in which it is desirable or necessary for the University to make changes in course provision, either before or after registration.
The safety of students, staff and visitors is paramount and major changes to delivery or services may have to be made if a pandemic, epidemic or local health emergency occurs.
In addition, in certain circumstances, for example due to visa difficulties or because the health needs of students cannot be met, it may be necessary to make adjustments to course requirements for international study.
Where possible your academic supervisor will not change for the duration of your course.
However, it may be necessary to assign a new academic supervisor during the course of study or before registration for reasons which might include illness, sabbatical leave, parental leave or change in employment.
For further information please see our page on changes to courses and the provisions of the student contract regarding changes to courses.
The requirements described below are specific to this course and apply only in the year of entry that is shown.
You can use our interactive tool to help you evaluate whether your application is likely to be competitive .
Please be aware that any studentships that are linked to this course may have different or additional requirements and you should read any studentship information carefully before applying.
As a minimum, applicants should hold or be predicted to achieve the following UK qualifications or their equivalent:
For applicants with a bachelor's degree from the USA, the minimum overall GPA that is normally required to meet the undergraduate-level requirement is 3.7 out of 4.0.
If your degree is not from the UK or another country specified above, visit our International Qualifications page for guidance on the qualifications and grades that would usually be considered to meet the University’s minimum entry requirements.
No Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or GMAT scores are sought.
This course requires proficiency in English at the University's higher level .
If your first language is not English, you may need to provide evidence that you meet this requirement.
The minimum scores required to meet the University's higher level are detailed in the table below.
TOEFL iBT, including the 'Home Edition'
(Institution code: 0490)
*Previously known as the Cambridge Certificate of Advanced English or Cambridge English: Advanced (CAE) † Previously known as the Cambridge Certificate of Proficiency in English or Cambridge English: Proficiency (CPE)
Your test must have been taken no more than two years before the start date of your course.
Our Application Guide provides further information about the English language test requirement .
If your ability to meet the entry requirements has been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic (eg you were awarded an unclassified/ungraded degree) or any other exceptional personal circumstance (eg other illness or bereavement), please refer to the guidance on extenuating circumstances in the Application Guide for information about how to declare this so that your application can be considered appropriately.
You will need to register three referees who can give an informed view of your academic ability and suitability for the course.
The How to apply section of this page provides details of the types of reference that are required in support of your application for this course and how these will be assessed.
You will be required to supply supporting documents with your application.
The How to apply section of this page provides details of the supporting documents that are required as part of your application for this course and how these will be assessed.
Interviews are normally held as part of the admissions process and take place throughout the year.
Of those that apply around a third are invited to interview.
Candidates will be shortlisted based on academic ability and fit with the course.
The interview will generally be conducted remotely by a member of the admissions committee.
Interviews tend to last around 25 minutes and you can expect to be asked some technical questions.
There will be opportunity for you to ask your own questions (these questions are not taken into account when assessing interview performance).
If you receive an offer of a place at Oxford, your offer will outline any conditions that you need to satisfy and any actions you need to take, together with any associated deadlines.
These may include academic conditions, such as achieving a specific final grade in your current degree course.
These conditions will usually depend on your individual academic circumstances and may vary between applicants.
Our ' After you apply ' pages provide more information about offers and conditions .
In addition to any academic conditions which are set, you will also be required to meet the following requirements:
If you are offered a place, you will be required to complete a Financial Declaration in order to meet your financial condition of admission.
In accordance with the University’s obligations towards students and staff, we will ask you to declare any relevant, unspent criminal convictions before you can take up a place at Oxford.
The following factors will also govern whether candidates can be offered places:
The Department of Computer Science is at the heart of computing and related interdisciplinary activity at Oxford.
The department is home to a community of world class researchers and is consistently ranked in the Times Higher Education University Rankings amongst the very best computer science departments in the world, for both teaching and research.
The Department of Computer Science is committed to attracting the world’s most talented students and working with them to continue the success of the field of computer science.
As a student here, you will join a vibrant community working in research areas including:
The department’s strength comes from its firm grounding in core computer science disciplines, a high degree of mathematical sophistication among its researchers, and its committed engagement with applications and interdisciplinary work.
At present there are over 70 members of academic staff and over 140 research staff.
The department, located in the Wolfson Building on the corner of Keble Road and Parks Road, has close links with government, industry, and other departments within the University, including the Department of Mathematics, Engineering, Physics, Statistics and a number of life sciences departments.
The Computer Science Graduate Society (COGS) is an organisation within the department that provides organised events and outings for the graduate students and research assistants within the lab.
The Oxford Women in Computer Science Society (OxWoCS) aims to support and promote women in computer science.
The society organises events throughout the year, where you will have the opportunity to meet other students and staff working across different research areas.
These events may include weekly coffee meetings, talks by distinguished female speakers, and industry sponsored events.
For entry in the 2025-26 academic year, the collegiate University expects to offer over 1,000 full or partial graduate scholarships across a wide range of graduate courses.
If you apply by the January deadline shown on this page and receive a course offer, your application will then be considered for Oxford scholarships.
For the majority of Oxford scholarships, your application will automatically be assessed against the eligibility criteria, without needing to make a separate application.
There are further Oxford scholarships available which have additional eligibility criteria and where you are required to submit a separate application.
Most scholarships are awarded on the basis of academic merit and/or potential.
To ensure that you are considered for Oxford scholarships that require a separate application, for which you may be eligible, use our fees, funding and scholarship search tool to identify these opportunities and find out how to apply.
Alongside Oxford scholarships, you should also consider other opportunities for which you may be eligible including a range of external funding , loan schemes for postgraduate study and any other scholarships which may also still be available after the January deadline as listed on our fees, funding and scholarship search tool .
Details of college-specific funding opportunities can also be found on individual college websites:
Please refer to the College preference section of this page to identify which of the colleges listed above accept students for this course.
The fees for this course are charged on an annual basis.
Course fees cover your teaching as well as other academic services and facilities provided to support your studies.
Unless specified in the additional information section below, course fees do not cover your accommodation, residential costs or other living costs.
They also don’t cover any additional costs and charges that are outlined in the additional information section below.
Course fees are payable each year, for the duration of your fee liability (your fee liability is the length of time for which you are required to pay course fees).
For courses lasting longer than one year, please be aware that fees will usually increase annually.
For details, please see our guidance on changes to fees and charges .
The Fees and Funding section of this website provides further information about course fees , including information about fee status and eligibility and your length of fee liability .
There are no compulsory elements of this course that entail additional costs beyond fees and living costs.
However, as part of your course requirements, you may need to choose a dissertation, a project or a thesis topic.
Please note that, depending on your choice of topic and the research required to complete it, you may incur additional expenses, such as travel expenses, research expenses, and field trips.
You will need to meet these additional costs, although you may be able to apply for small grants from your department and/or college to help you cover some of these expenses.
In addition to your course fees and any additional course-specific costs, you will need to ensure that you have adequate funds to support your living costs for the duration of your course.
For the 2025-26 academic year, the range of likely living costs for a single, full-time student is between £1,425 and £2,035 for each month spent in Oxford.
Depending on your circumstances, you may also need to budget for the costs of a student visa and immigration health surcharge and/or living costs for family members or other dependants that you plan to bring with you to Oxford (assuming that dependant visa eligibility criteria are met).
For study in Oxford beyond the 2025-26 academic year, it is suggested that you budget for potential increases in living expenses of around 4% each year – although this rate may vary depending on the national economic situation.
For further information, please consult our more detailed information about living costs , which includes a breakdown of likely living costs in Oxford for items such as food, accommodation and study costs.
Students enrolled on this course will belong to both a department/faculty and a college.
Please note that ‘college’ and ‘colleges’ refers to all 43 of the University’s colleges, including those designated as societies and permanent private halls (PPHs).
If you apply for a place on this course you will have the option to express a preference for one of the colleges listed below, or you can ask us to find a college for you.
Before deciding, we suggest that you read our brief introduction to the college system at Oxford and our advice about expressing a college preference .
If you are a current Oxford student and you would like to remain at your current Oxford college, you should check whether it is listed below.
If it is, you should indicate this preference when you apply.
If not, you should contact your college office to ask whether they would be willing to make an exception.
Further information about staying at your current college can be found in our Application Guide.
The following colleges accept students on the MSc in Advanced Computer Science:
Balliol College Christ Church Exeter College Green Templeton College Hertford College Jesus College Keble College Kellogg College Linacre College Magdalen College Mansfield College Merton College New College Oriel College Pembroke College Reuben College St Anne's College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Edmund Hall St Hilda's College St Hugh's College St John's College Somerville College Trinity College University College Wolfson College Worcester College Wycliffe Hall
Our guide to getting started provides general advice on how to prepare for and start your application.
If it is important for you to have your application considered under a particular deadline – eg under the January deadline in order to be considered for Oxford scholarships – we recommend that you aim to complete and submit your application at least two weeks in advance .
Check the deadlines on this page and the information about deadlines and when to apply in our Application Guide.
An application fee of £75 is payable for each application to this course.
Application fee waivers are available for the following applicants who meet the eligibility criteria:
You are encouraged to check whether you're eligible for an application fee waiver before you apply.
You do not need to contact the department before you apply but you are encouraged to visit the relevant departmental webpages to read any further information about your chosen course.
General enquiries should be made to the department's Graduate Admissions Administrator via the contact details provided on this page.
You should refer to the information below when completing the application form, paying attention to the specific requirements for the supporting documents .
If any document does not meet the specification, including the stipulated word count, your application may be considered incomplete and not assessed by the academic department.
Expand each section to show further details.
Whilst you must register three referees, the department may start the assessment of your application if two of the three references are submitted by the course deadline and your application is otherwise complete.
Please note that you may still be required to ensure your third referee supplies a reference for consideration.
Academic references are preferred though you may submit professional references if these are relevant to the course.
Your references will support intellectual ability, academic achievement, motivation, and the ability to work in a group.
Your transcripts should give detailed information of the individual grades received in your university-level qualifications to date.
You should only upload official documents issued by your institution and any transcript not in English should be accompanied by a certified translation.
More information about the transcript requirement is available in the Application Guide.
A CV/résumé is compulsory for this course.
Most applicants choose to submit a document of one to two pages highlighting their academic achievements and any relevant professional experience.
Your statement should be written in English and explain your motivation for applying for the course at Oxford, your relevant experience and education, the specific areas that interest you and/or you intend to specialise in, and any career plans you might have.
If possible, please ensure that the word count is clearly displayed on the document.
This will be assessed for:
You can start or return to an application using the relevant link below.
As you complete the form, please refer to the requirements above and consult our Application Guide for advice .
Apply Continue application
Your application (including the supporting documents outlined above) will be assessed against the entry requirements detailed on this course page.
You can find out more about our shortlisting and selection process in our detailed guide to what happens next.
Find out how to manage your application after submission , using our Applicant Self-Service tool.
Closed to applications for entry in 2025-26
Register to be notified via email when the next application cycle opens (for entry in 2026-27)
The application deadlines for this course are being updated in preparation for the next admission cycle.
*Three-year average (applications for entry in 2022-23 to 2024-25)
This course was previously known as the MSc in Computer Science
This course is offered by the Department of Computer Science
Advice about contacting the department can be found in the How to apply section of this page
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 273878
Application guide
You may also wish to consider applying to other courses that are similar or related to this course:
You can study this course in combination with our MBA, as part of our 1+1 MBA programme .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/msc-african-studies:
The MSc in African Studies is a three-term course, designed both as a stand-alone interdisciplinary introduction to current debates about Africa, and as a preparation for doctoral research on Africa.
This advanced degree course provides an excellent foundation for those who wish to expand their knowledge of African studies.
There are five components to the MSc in African Studies:
The teaching on the MSc in African Studies is built around the three core courses listed above.
The first core course examines research methodologies and strategies, including the politics of researching and writing on Africa, and is taught in Michaelmas term through a weekly lecture and seminar.
The second is a weekly lecture and seminar in Michaelmas term, covering the evolution of African states; the rise and fall of colonial rule, social and economic change and the dilemmas of development; politics, globalisation and conflict in the post-colonial era.
The third is taught in Hilary term and covers thematic enquiries into the social, political, cultural and economic dynamics that shape the African continent today; historical perspectives on the present; global context and comparisons between Africa and other regions.
The core courses form compulsory elements of this degree and are open only to students taking the MSc in African Studies.
In addition to the three core courses, you will take an optional paper on a particular theme and within a specific discipline.
A wide selection of optional papers is available each year.
Optional papers are taught in Hilary term, through a weekly lecture and seminar.
Finally, you will write a dissertation on a research topic of your choosing, which must include discussion of the comparative reading, historiography, or theory relevant to the dissertation.
You will undertake fieldwork at the end of Hilary term and will be provided with thesis supervision throughout the year.
Students dedicate six hours per week to classes and lectures and they will typically meet their thesis supervisor once every fortnight.
The department runs a weekly seminar series in Michaelmas term and Hilary term which provides an opportunity for networking with other Africanists.
The African Studies Centre has a library which holds a collection of relevant books and also off-print sources that you may consult.
Other teaching material is available online.
The centre has its own seminar room used for classes and seminars.
When this room is not in use you are welcome to use it to meet with other students and discuss your studies.
Several networking events are organised by the department throughout the three-term course.
These will allow you to meet colleagues and members of staff, and you will be encouraged to be involved in the organisation of these events.
Supervision for the dissertation element of this course runs through the year.
For this course, the allocation of graduate supervision is the responsibility of the African Studies Centre and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the African Studies Centre.
In Hilary term you will submit examined essays for core courses one and two.
In Trinity term you will submit examined essays for core course three and your chosen option paper.
You will submit your dissertation near to the end of Trinity term.
The MSc in African Studies provides an excellent foundation for those who wish to expand their knowledge of African studies, prior to working for NGOs, the civil service, international organisations, and the media, or in other professional capacities.
Students who complete the degree to a sufficient standard may transfer to doctoral courses in disciplinary departments, such as Politics and International Relations, Development Studies, History, Anthropology or Geography, or to the interdisciplinary DPhil in Area Studies (Africa).
Staff with expertise in African studies supervise doctoral theses across all of the main disciplinary departments of the University, and students can continue to work with the same supervisor who has guided their MSc work, where this is appropriate.
Students who wish to progress from the MSc to doctoral studies can begin their doctoral research over the summer following completion of the MSc.
For applicants with a bachelor's degree from the USA, the minimum overall GPA that is normally required to meet the undergraduate-level requirement is 3.55 out of 4.0.
Interviews are not normally held as part of the admissions process.
Join the Oxford School of Global and Area Studies (OSGA) as a graduate student and become part of a community devoted to innovative research and graduate teaching using a range of academic disciplines which seek to understand the complexity and the interrelatedness of societies and regions.
The work in the school takes into account both insights provided by the separate social science disciplines of anthropology, economics, politics, international relations, history and sociology, and the contextualisation provided by in-depth knowledge of specific regions and countries.
If you are fascinated by a particular area and wish to explore it further and understand it and its people more, then the school is likely to have the graduate course for you.
OGSA admits about 150 graduate students each year, across a range of area-based master's courses, the multidisciplinary and comparative MPhil in Global and Area Studies, and the doctoral programme in area studies.
You will find library materials, seminar series, workshops and lectures in abundance in Oxford.
Studying a particular region here means mixing with a group of leading academics in their fields and becoming a part of the school's vibrant research community.
Join the Oxford School of Global and Area Studies for an inspiring graduate experience.
Further information about funding opportunities for this course can be found on the school's website.
Costs Annual course fees The fees for this course are charged on an annual basis.
Fees for the 2025-26 academic year at the University of Oxford
What do course fees cover?
How long do I need to pay course fees?
Where can I find further information about fees?
Additional information
The dissertation component of the course requires conducting original research.
This research can be archival only, or can be theoretical, or based on quantitative analysis of data.
Students who wish to collect original empirical material through fieldwork can do so during the Easter vacation, and this is a very popular option.
Small grants will be available from the African Studies Centre and you may also be able to apply for fieldwork and research/travel grants from your college.
However, students should be aware that the costs of fieldwork - on average around £1,500, but with great variation depending on country - will typically be higher than the funds available, and that they will be required to fund any shortfall.
Standard travel insurance can be provided by the University, however, students may be required to pay any additional insurance premiums associated with travel to areas with an increased level of risk, and should factor this into their planning for fieldwork.
The following colleges accept students on the MSc in African Studies:
Blackfriars Campion Hall Corpus Christi College Exeter College Jesus College Kellogg College Lady Margaret Hall Linacre College Oriel College Regent's Park College Reuben College St Anne's College St Antony's College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Hugh's College Wadham College Wolfson College Wycliffe Hall
For this course, the application form will include questions that collect information that would usually be included in a CV/résumé.
You should not upload a separate document.
If a separate CV/résumé is uploaded, it will be removed from your application .
Your references should generally be academic, though you may submit up to one professional reference.
Your references will support intellectual ability, academic achievement, motivation, and relevant experience.
Your statement should include details of your previous academic training, as well as any relevant research and work experience; the proposed area in which you intend to write a dissertation; and evidence of motivation for studying this degree which can include travel and volunteer activities.
You should indicate whether you intend to or aspire to pursue doctoral studies.
Your statement should focus on academic rather than personal achievements, interests and aspirations.
You should submit a piece of academic writing in English with appropriate references.
An extract of a longer piece of work may be submitted, but should be accompanied by a note which puts it in context.
Ideally the written work should relate to some aspect of African studies, but other relevant material can be submitted.
The word count does not need to include any bibliography or brief footnotes.
This course is offered by the Oxford School of Global and Area Studies (OSGA)
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 613900

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-ancient-history:
The DPhil programme is a research degree intended to make it possible for the successful candidate to aspire to a career in research and teaching at university level anywhere in the world where the Classical subjects are studied.
The DPhil takes the form of the composition of a substantial dissertation of up to 100,000 words, based on new research on a subject of your choice.
The best dissertations are published, many in the Oxford University Press series of Classical Monographs which exists for this purpose.
The vision of the DPhil as a necessary stage of an academic career, following on from master's-level education and preparing for postdoctoral work and beyond, is reflected in five other ways:
It is fully recognised that some students will choose not to pursue a professional career in Classics, and the structures mentioned in the points above are tailored to their needs too.
The experience of the Classics DPhil programmes is intended to be personally fulfilling and intellectually enriching in itself, and the cognitive skills required are highly transferable to other walks of life.
You will have the opportunity to attend seminar talks by visiting speakers as well as attend the many other academic activities that take place in the Ioannou Centre for Classical and Byzantine Studies.
The course can be studied full-time or part-time with both modes requiring attendance in Oxford.
Part-time students are required to attend course-related activities in Oxford for a minimum of 30 days each year.
Part-time students are fully integrated into the research culture of the Classics Faculty and afforded all the same opportunities and support as full-time students.
As a part-time student you will be required to attend supervision meetings, seminars and other obligations in Oxford for a minimum of one day per week during Weeks 0 to 9 of each term, for a total of 30 days each year.
Attendance outside of term time will be determined by mutual agreement with your supervisor.
There will be limited flexibility in the dates and pattern of attendance.
Oxford has academic resources which are among the most extensive in the world for classical languages and literature.
The Ioannou Centre for Classical and Byzantine Studies offers various facilities for graduate students including a common room and a graduate study area.
It is also the base for the many research projects based in the faculty.
The faculty is fortunate in having two world-class research libraries close at hand, the Bodleian and the Bodleian Art, Archaeology and Ancient World Library.
The Bodleian Art, Archaeology and Ancient World Library is an open-shelf lending library indispensable to anyone studying ancient history, archaeology and art; it is also extremely useful for those studying literature or philology.
For this course, the allocation of graduate supervision is the responsibility of the Faculty of Classics and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Faculty of Classics.
You will be appointed a supervisor or supervisors with relevant expertise, who will support you throughout your doctoral work, beginning with the formulation of the topic and ending with the final examination.
Most students have the opportunity to meet their supervisor twice a term, although more frequent meetings can be arranged as needed.
All students will be initially admitted as a Probationary Research Student (PRS).
Within a maximum of six terms as a full-time PRS student or twelve terms as a part-time PRS student, you will be expected to apply for transfer of status from Probationer Research Student to DPhil status.
Transfer of status is assessed by two examiners on the basis of a sample of written work, a statement of your proposed research and a viva.
Students who are successful at transfer will also be expected to apply for and gain confirmation of DPhil status to show that your work continues to be on track.
This will need to be done within nine terms of admission for full-time students and eighteen terms of admissions for admission of part-time students.
The degree is awarded on the basis of a thesis of up to 100,000 words based on original research after three or, at most, four years from the date of admission.
If you are studying part-time, you will be required to submit your thesis after six or, at most, eight years from the date of admission.
To be successfully awarded a DPhil in Ancient History you are required to defend your thesis orally ( viva voce ) with two examiners, normally one internal, one external.
When details were last collected on graduate destinations, the faculty found that an unusually high percentage of their successful DPhil students (56%) were in university teaching or research posts five years after finishing their doctorates.
Others go into a variety of occupations, including teaching, publishing, administration, business and other professions.
We know that factors such as socio-economic circumstances and school performance can make it difficult for students to demonstrate their full potential.
This course is taking part in an initiative to use contextual data to help us to better understand your achievements in the context of your individual background.
For further details, please refer to the information about improving access to graduate study in the How to apply section of this page.
Contextual data may also be used in the assessment of studentships.
For applicants with a bachelor's degree from the USA, the minimum overall GPA that is normally required to meet the undergraduate-level requirement is 3.6 out of 4.0.
However, selection of candidates also depends on other factors in your application and most successful applicants have achieved higher GPA scores.
If you are applying for part-time study and invited to attend an interview, you may be asked about your ability to commit sufficient time to study and fulfil all elements outlined in the course description (eg completing coursework, assessments, and attending course and University events and modules).
If you are applying for part-time study and are currently employed, you may be asked to provide evidence that your employment will not affect your ability to study and that you can commit sufficient time to fulfil all elements outlined in the course description.
You may be asked to provide details about your pattern of employment and provide evidence to show how you will fulfil your commitment to make time available to study, eg to complete coursework, and attend course and University events and modules.
Oxford administers classical studies in two broad segments, ancient history and classical archaeology in one, and Greek and Latin languages and literature in the other.
But academically it is the crossovers and synergies between the cultures of the Greek and Roman worlds which form the core of the interests of the Classics Faculty.
The academic study of ancient Greek and Roman civilisation - thought, society, language, culture, literature, history, art - spans nearly two millennia (c.
1200 BC to AD 600), and is tightly interwoven with most branches of humanities.
The faculty also specialises in all the disciplines needed to comprehend these two worlds in their wider context in time and space.
The crossovers and synergies also situate core Greek and Roman literature and culture in a wider world reaching from Mycenaean palaces to Egypt, Bactria or India.
In the 2021 Research Excellence Framework exercise, the faculty presented the largest number of academics in UK Classics (91).
52% of the submission was rated 4* (world-leading) and 32% 3* (internationally excellent), giving the faculty by far the highest quantity of 4* or 3* research in UK Classics.
The faculty has an unusually large and wide-ranging body of scholars and graduates.
It offers a packed and varied programme of seminars and abundant informal interaction, make this an exciting and stimulating community in which to study Classics.
Further information about funding opportunities for this course can be found on the faculty's website.
Following the period of fee liability , you may also be required to pay a University continuation charge and a college continuation charge.
The University and college continuation charges are shown on the Continuation charges page.
There are no compulsory elements of this course that entail additional costs beyond fees (or, after fee liability ends, continuation charges) and living costs.
However, please note that, depending on your choice of research topic and the research required to complete it, you may incur additional expenses, such as travel expenses, research expenses, and field trips.
Please note that you are required to attend in Oxford for a minimum of 30 days each year, and you may incur additional travel and accommodation expenses for this.
Also, depending on your choice of research topic and the research required to complete it, you may incur further additional expenses, such as travel expenses, research expenses, and field trips.
Your living costs may vary depending on your personal circumstances but you will still need to cover your cost of living on a full-time basis for the duration of your course, even if you will not be based in Oxford throughout your studies.
While the range of likely living costs for a single, full-time student living in Oxford is between £1,425 and £2,035 per month, living costs outside Oxford may be different.
Part-time students who are not based in Oxford will need to calculate travel and accommodation costs carefully.
Depending on your circumstances and study plans, this may include the cost of a visitor visa to attend for short blocks of time (assuming that visitor visa eligibility criteria are met).
The following colleges accept students for full-time study on this course:
The following colleges accept students for part-time study on this course:
An application fee of £20 is payable for each application to this course.
If you're currently studying for an Oxford graduate taught course and apply to this course with no break in your studies, you may be eligible to apply to this course as a readmission applicant.
The application fee will be waived for an eligible application of this type.
Check whether you're eligible to apply for readmission .
Before you apply, you should identify an academic member of staff who is willing to supervise you and has the resources to support your proposed research project.
You should do this by contacting them directly.
Details of academic staff, including their research interests and contact details, can be found on the department's website.
However, please do keep in mind that prospective supervisors are not in a position to make decisions about admission.
If you have any general questions about course content, teaching, or assessment you should contact the department via the contact details provided on this page.
This course is taking part in initiatives to improve the selection procedure for graduate applications, to ensure that all candidates are evaluated fairly.
Socio-economic data (where it has been provided in the application form) will be used as part of an initiative to contextualise applications at the different stages of the selection process.
Under the 'Field and title of research project' please enter your proposed field or area of research if this is known.
If the department has advertised a specific research project that you would like to be considered for, please enter the project title here instead.
You should not use this field to type out a full research proposal.
You will be able to upload your research supporting materials separately if they are required (as described below).
Under 'Proposed supervisor name' enter the name of the academic(s) whom you would like to supervise your research.
All references are expected to be academic.
If you believe there is good reason for you to include a professional reference, please contact the Director of Graduate Studies before you apply.
Your references will support intellectual ability, academic achievement and motivation.
The research proposal should describe your proposed thesis topic in detail, explain why it is important and worthwhile, situate it within the existing research in the area in question, and provide a basic account of methodology as well as a provisional timetable.
The proposal should be written in English.
Your statement should focus on your academic qualifications to the extent that they are relevant to your academic plans rather than personal achievements, interests and aspirations.
If you are applying for part-time study, you should provide evidence of your ability to commit sufficient time to study and fulfil all elements outlined in the course description (eg completing coursework, assessments, and attending course and University events and modules).
You should submit two relevant academic essays or other writing samples from your most recent qualification.
Extracts of the requisite length from longer work are also permissible.
Written work will be assessed for understanding of problems in the area; relevant use of primary evidence; ability to construct and defend an argument; powers of analysis; powers of expression.
Surveys of published scholarship are less informative to assessors, although a judicious summary of a complex problem may be helpful.
Apply - Full time Apply - Part time Continue application
† Three-year average (applications for entry in 2022-23 to 2024-25) *Two-year average (applications for entry in 2022-23 and 2024-25)
This course is offered by the Faculty of Classics
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 288269
View related courses
We are unable to sponsor student visas for part-time study on this course.
Part-time students may be able to attend on a visitor visa for short blocks of time only (and leave after each visit) and will need to remain based outside the UK.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/mst-ancient-philosophy:
The MSt in Ancient Philosophy is a one-year, full-time taught graduate course offering graduate training in ancient philosophy of high quality, and aims to provide a foundation on which you can go on to pursue doctoral work in the area.
This course is not available in part-time mode of study and is not offered via distance learning.
Teaching and learning on the MSt in Ancient Philosophy normally consists of individual supervisions with members of the faculty during term-time, classes and lectures, and ongoing independent research.
During the course, you will take two subject options.
The first must be chosen from the following list of undergraduate papers in ancient philosophy:
Tuition for these subjects is offered in the form of supervisions, as well as lectures and classes.
The second subject option consists of two classes, which change every year, and you must attend both classes.
In the last four years, the following classes have been on offer, which give an idea of the sort of subjects that have been tackled: Plato on Education, Happiness and Time in Ancient Philosophy, Seneca’s Moral Letters, Aristotle’s Defence of Natural Slavery and its Legacy, Techne in Ancient Philosophy, Vice in Ancient Philosophy, Virtue and Eros in Stoic Philosophy, The Ontology of Action: Aristotle and After, The Stoics on Emotions, Plato and Aristotle on Truth, Prudence in Aristotle’s Ethics, Sophistry and Fallacy in Plato and Aristotle, and Plato’s Political Philosophy.
Finally, you will write a thesis of 10,000 to 15,000 words on a topic you have chosen in consultation with the course coordinator and a prospective supervisor.
In a typical fortnight during term-time, a student can expect to spend around one hour receiving one-to-one supervision, between four and eight hours attending ancient philosophy seminars, and up to six hours of Ancient Greek tuition (voluntary).
This translates as around 20–30% of a full-time working week.
Students can expect to spend the remaining time on self-directed study.
It is not a course requirement for students without any (or with little) Ancient Greek to attend the language classes currently run by the Faculty of Classics, but it is highly recommended that they do so, as being able to read philosophical texts in the original language is an advantage for Ancient Philosophy students.
Students with intermediate or advanced Greek may choose to attend more advanced Ancient Greek classes.
Each term many graduate classes and research seminars are organised by faculty members in which graduate students are full and important participants.
Moreover, during term-time the Faculty of Philosophy normally offers a weekly workshop that allows members of the faculty and graduate students to discuss work in progress in ancient philosophy by speakers from Oxford and elsewhere.
All graduate students specialising in ancient philosophy are encouraged to attend this workshop.
In some years the Faculty of Classics and Faculty of Philosophy jointly offer the Nellie Wallace lectures, which enable scholars from outside the University to visit Oxford in order to lecture and conduct seminars in a subject in the field of Literae Humaniores.
You may also decide to attend any graduate or undergraduate classes, seminars and lectures in and outside of the Faculty of Philosophy which are of interest to you, provided those classes, seminars and lectures are open to you.
Graduates are encouraged to organise their own seminars and reading groups, and they also run two societies: one invites distinguished speakers from the UK and around the world, while the other gives graduates the opportunity to present papers to a graduate audience.
Each year there is an Oxford Graduate Philosophy Conference, in which most graduate philosophy students participate in some way.
The course has no fieldwork, industrial placement or year abroad element, but you may decide to attend conferences, workshops or research training elsewhere.
Upon completion of the course, you should have:
Students who successfully complete the MSt in Ancient Philosophy may wish to consider applying for the DPhil in Philosophy .
However, if you have no to little Ancient Greek and you would like to progress to the DPhil in Philosophy, you should attend the Ancient Greek classes as attendance and progress in these classes will normally be an academic condition for admission to the DPhil in Philosophy.
The Faculty of Philosophy will be based in the Schwarzman Centre for the Humanities, a brand-new building at the University of Oxford, which will accommodate seven faculties, two institutes, a new library, a large number of well-equipped teaching and seminar rooms, and performance and arts venues.
Each faculty will have its own centre and social hub within a building which will also facilitate interdisciplinary and collaborative work.
At the heart of the building will be a large atrium – called the Great Hall – which will be a beautiful space, bringing light into the building, and serving as a space for informal work, relaxation, meeting with friends, taking breaks, having refreshments – and much more.
The library, part of the Bodleian Libraries, will be open to all students, and will house lending collections for Philosophy.
There will be 340 general reader seats, and around 80 graduate study seats – with a further 320 formal and informal study seats throughout the building outside the library.
Open-shelf lending collections will be complemented by access to electronic resources, scan on demand, and material requested from the Bodleian’s Collections Storage Facility.
As well as the Library’s extensive staffed hours, there will be a 24/7 study space, including smart lockers for self-collect of borrowable items out of hours.
Subject support is provided by a team of subject librarians.
For this course, the allocation of graduate supervision is the responsibility of the Faculty of Philosophy and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Faculty of Philosophy and Faculty of Classics.
Most students have the opportunity to receive four, one-hour supervision sessions per term with their appointed supervisor for that term.
Before each supervision you will research, write and submit a formative supervision essay on which you receive detailed feedback in the one-to-one supervision session.
This should then allow you to further improve your essay for assessment.
In addition to writing your thesis, you will be assessed through written work.
The first subject option will be assessed by one 5,000-word essay on a topic chosen by you and approved by the course co-ordinator.
Assessment of the second subject option is by two 5,000-word essays on topics linked to the area covered in the two classes you have taken.
You may choose to write both essays on topics linked to one class or to write one essay on a topic linked to the first class and the other essay on a topic linked to the second, but overlap in subject material between the essays is to be avoided.
MSt in Ancient Philosophy graduates often progress to doctoral programmes, either at the faculty itself or elsewhere.
Some, however, have pursued non-philosophical academic careers, or careers outside academia, including banking, information technology, law, management consultancy, teaching and public service.
The graduate destinations of past MSt students are available on the MSt alumni webpages .
However, entrance is very competitive and most successful applicants have a first-class degree or the equivalent.
However, most successful applicants have a GPA of 3.7.
You are not required to have any publications.
Students who achieve a distinction on the MSt in Ancient Philosophy are eligible for progression to the DPhil in Philosophy , provided that the Philosophy Graduate Studies Committee is satisfied that their proposed thesis topic and outline indicate that they can be adequately supervised by members of the Philosophy Faculty.
If they started the MSt with no or limited knowledge of Ancient Greek, they are normally also required to have attended relevant classes in Ancient Greek.
Students who pass the MSt in Ancient Philosophy without a distinction may be admitted to the DPhil at the Committee’s discretion.
All applications are assessed by the faculty's Graduate Studies Committee at the same time, after the application deadline has passed, and offers are made on a strictly comparative basis.
This course is suitable as a conversion course for students changing to philosophy from classics or other related disciplines.
Over 150 Oxford academics are employed by or associated with the Faculty of Philosophy, making it one of the largest philosophy departments worldwide.
In the most recent Philosophical Gourmet Report (2024-25) , Oxford University’s Faculty of Philosophy was once again ranked top in the list of Philosophy Faculties in the United Kingdom and still ranked second in the overall ranking of philosophy faculties in the English speaking world.
More than 150 professional philosophers work in the University and its colleges, between them covering a vast range of subjects within philosophy, and many are international leaders in their fields.
The faculty offers a wide range of graduate classes, seminars and supervisions, providing you with high-quality tuition in philosophy.
This includes its flagship course, the BPhil in Philosophy , which we believe provides the perfect graduate level training for further studies to doctoral level and is usually studied as the first two years of a four- to five-year doctoral program.
Many philosophy subjects at Oxford are ranked highly in the most recent Philosophical Gourmet Report’s breakdown of programmes by speciality , including metaphysics, epistemology, philosophical logic, philosophy of language, philosophy of religion, applied ethics, metaethics, normative ethics, political philosophy, philosophy of law, philosophy of physics, philosophy of science, philosophy of mathematics, mathematical logic, ancient philosophy, medieval philosophy, 17th and 18th century early modern philosophy, and 19th and 20th century continental philosophy.
The Philosophy Graduate Studies Committee has a research and travel fund for graduate students to which students may apply for assistance with, for example, the costs of attending conferences or workshops.
BPhil and MSt students may only apply for funding if they are presenting a paper.
Probationary Research Students and DPhil students are entitled to apply for funding to attend a workshop, conference, etc, whether or not they are presenting a paper.
The following colleges accept students on the MSt in Ancient Philosophy:
Balliol College Blackfriars Brasenose College Campion Hall Christ Church Corpus Christi College Exeter College Jesus College Keble College Kellogg College Lady Margaret Hall Linacre College Lincoln College Magdalen College New College Oriel College The Queen's College Regent's Park College St Anne's College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Edmund Hall St Hilda's College St Hugh's College St John's College Somerville College Wolfson College Worcester College Wycliffe Hall
Academic references are usually required.
However, if you have been out of education for a long time, or if you have substantial relevant working experience, then a maximum of one professional reference may replace an academic reference, provided that it speaks to your ability to undertake philosophy studies at graduate level.
Your references should support success in current or previous studies and a likelihood of success in the MSt in Ancient Philosophy.
In particular, references should provide evidence of outstanding academic achievement, intellectual ability and strong motivation for the intended graduate course.
You should submit a statement in English explaining your motivation for applying for the course, in which you may wish to consider the following questions:
This will be assessed for evidence of motivation for and understanding of the proposed area of study.
Your statement should focus on philosophy, rather than personal, extra-curricular achievements and interests.
Your written work(s) should be academic essays or other writing samples on philosophical topics.
All essays should be recent and not of a primarily expository nature.
Written work should be word-processed, written in English and clearly marked with your name and the date of composition.
The word count does not need to include the end bibliography.
Footnotes and in-text referencing are included.
To submit one longer piece of work in your application instead of two shorter pieces, you should upload this document in the first 'Written work' slot on the 'Supporting Documents' tab of the Application Form.
In the second 'Written work' slot, you should upload a PDF document with the following statement:
' I have included one long essay in lieu of two short essays.
I have checked the course page to confirm this is permitted for this course.
'
This course is offered by the Faculty of Philosophy
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 276930

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-anthropology:
The DPhil in Anthropology is the School of Anthropology and Museum Ethnography’s advanced research degree, and is awarded to candidates who have completed a substantial original piece of research in the field.
Anthropology - the study of humans - is a very diverse field and a wide range of research foci are reflected within the activities and structure of the school.
DPhil students in the school research topics across this wide range of research foci, including migration and migrant populations, social and cultural influences on medical practice and health, material culture and its representation in museums, human cooperation and pro-social behaviour, the evolution of human behaviour, human adaptations and interactions with the environment and technology, and the huge range of topics that fall under the social anthropological concerns of learning about different populations’ versions of the world and relating them to each other.
The DPhil provides training and practice in developing research skills, especially through fieldwork with human subjects, though this is not compulsory.
It also offers practice in analysing, interpreting and writing up research-related materials, and in presenting such materials in seminar-type formats.
Upon successful completion of the course, you will have developed the skills and expertise that qualify you to work in academic research/teaching positions or beyond in a broad range of professions requiring social science skills and sensitivities.
Most applicants are admitted to the DPhil as Probationer Research Students (PRS).
However, students who are studying an MPhil in Anthropology at Oxford may apply for admissions directly to DPhil status, but only where there is clear continuity between the topic of their MPhil thesis and that of their proposed DPhil.
In the first year you will attend weekly PRS seminars which provide training in research skills and writing as well as research presentation and critique.
During this period you will develop and begin work on your thesis topic.
You will also take at least two ‘research methods modules’ courses chosen to complement your research interests from the wide range offered in the school.
You will meet at least monthly with your supervisor, and use the many research training opportunities on offer in the Social Sciences Division and elsewhere in the University (eg the Language Centre, IT Learning Centre).
These requirements are spread over the first two years in the case of part-time students.
You will also have the opportunity to attend lectures, seminars and classes in your general topic area.
If studying full-time you will spend your second year, or if part-time you third and fourth years, gathering data as part of your original research.
While fieldwork is not a formal requirement most students undertake fieldwork of some form.
Its nature varies considerably depending upon the research area and topic focus, from traditional immersion in another population, to experimental work, to work with artefacts in museums or archives, for example.
Its location will be dictated by the research focus and could be in Oxford or, in principle, anywhere in the world (subject to health and safety considerations).
Students maintain regular (at least monthly) contact with their supervisor while conducting their research.
In your third year if studying full-time,  or your fifth and sixth years if studying part-time, you will write up your research thesis.
You will be expected to attend weekly ‘work-in-progress’ seminars in which you will present your developing work to your peers and staff for feedback and provide feedback to your peers' work.
You will continue to maintain at least monthly contact with your supervisor for guidance.
Throughout the course DPhil students are strongly encouraged to attend the many seminars, presentations and lectures on offer within the department and elsewhere in the University.
A programme of research seminars is available, some specifically for research students and others featuring talks by invited speakers, often from outside the university.
The principal event in this programme is the departmental seminar, run weekly on Fridays during term time.
The full-time programme is studied over three to four years.
The part-time programme has the same requirements, but is studied over six to eight years.
The part-time DPhil is designed for block teaching within the terms rather than specific days of the week, spread throughout the year.
Part-time students will be required to attend supervision, study, research seminars and skills training, together with other obligations (for example, supervision meetings).
Although there will be no requirement to live in Oxford, part-time research students must attend the University on a regular basis.
You may be expected to be in Oxford on a number of days each week during term time in the first two years of the programme.
There will be limited flexibility in the dates of attendance, which will be determined by class schedule and term dates.
It is therefore likely that part-time students are either already resident in Oxford or will live within commuting distance of the city.
Although the school appreciates that part-time research students will have non-standard attendance and work patterns, they are required to attend for a minimum of 30 days during term time in each academic year.
During the later years of the programme, there will be flexibility in the dates of attendance, which will be determined by mutual agreement with your supervisor.
Workspaces are available in the school on a first-come, first-served basis.
Laboratory and other dedicated workspaces and equipment for methods teaching will be provided where required.
All students receive an email account.
The Pitt Rivers Museum has its own library, the Balfour Library.
The Pitt Rivers Museum also has an online catalogue of its entire collections and a number of dedicated collections-based and research-related websites.
A student-run society, the Oxford University Anthropology Society, runs coffee mornings, talks and other social and academic events throughout the year.
Seminars, especially those involving outside speakers, often proceed to local pubs or restaurants after the talk.
You will receive all or most of your academic supervision in the School of Anthropology and Museum Ethnography.
You will have a named supervisor, possibly two, who will have overall responsibility for the direction of your work from inception to submission.
For this course, the allocation of graduate supervision is the responsibility of the School of Anthropology and Museum Ethnography and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor or co-supervisor may be found outside the School of Anthropology and Museum Ethnography.
You will have the opportunity to meet with your supervisor(s) regularly (typically for one hour, two to three times per term) – ie at least once per month.
In the case of part-time students this equates to at least once every two months, being at least twice between the start of one term and the beginning of the next.
During fieldwork this contact may be written or in the form of an online meeting rather than in person, and is expected to occur twice as often where a student is conducting work in a Foreign and Commonwealth Office-flagged location.
You will be admitted to the course as a Probationer Research Student (PRS), unless you are joining the programme directly from an Oxford MPhil in Anthropology and are continuing research in the area of your MPhil thesis.
You will be expected to apply for, and achieve, transfer of status from PRS to DPhil status within a maximum of four terms as a full-time PRS student or eight terms as a part-time PRS student.
This application is normally made in the third term for full-time students and in the sixth term for part-time students.
If you are directly admitted as a full DPhil student (i.e.
you hold an Oxford MPhil and are continuing research in the area of your MPhil thesis), in principle you are ready to embark on the programme of research as approved by your DPhil supervisor.
However, in some cases, your supervisor may determine that you should complete a further programme of methodological training or other preparatory work necessary for your proposed programme of research.
If you have achieved DPhil status, you must apply for and gain confirmation of DPhil status, to show that your work continues to be on track.
If you are admitted as a PRS, you will undertake research preparation for your fieldwork.
Once you have attained the status of a full DPhil student in anthropology (usually by the end of the first year for full-time students or the end of the second year for part- time students), you will be eligible to embark on fieldwork or other research.
Confirmation of DPhil status takes place once students are well advanced with their writing up.
Both Transfer of Status and Confirmation of Status assessments involve submission of a piece of written work and an interview with two assessors (other than your supervisor) and therefore provide important experience for the final oral examination.
Confirmation of Status needs to be achieved within nine terms for full-time students and eighteen terms for part-time students who were admitted with PRS status, or within six terms for full-time students and twelve terms for part-time students who were admitted directly with full DPhil status.
The course is ultimately examined by the submission of a thesis and oral examination, after three to four years of full-time study, or six to eight years of part-time study.
Many graduates from the course enter teaching and research.
Others go on to work in government, policy-making, public bodies, larger private companies, development agencies, NGOs and other organisations.
At least one such degree should normally be in a branch of anthropology (eg social, cultural, medical, biological, evolutionary) relevant to their proposed research.
Distinction-level students in a closely related discipline may be considered for direct entry as Probationer Research Students on the condition that they undertake some coursework in the relevant field of anthropology in their first year.
The final degree result should be 67%, or equivalent.
If you wish to undertake the DPhil with a focus on medical anthropology, you will usually be expected to have previously completed a taught master's degree in medical anthropology.
The School of Anthropology and Museum Ethnography is the largest anthropology department in the UK.
It tackles real world problems through its uniquely wide-ranging approach.
It produces internationally recognised research and teaches on challenging issues.
At its heart, is an ethos of openness and tolerance that guides its work.
In 2024, the school was ranked first in the QS World University Subject Rankings for Anthropology for the third consecutive year.
The research units that make up the school carry out cutting edge, impactful research and its close ties to The Pitt Rivers Museum, one of the world’s great ethnographic collections, allows for unique teaching and learning opportunities.
Together the school and its research units take an interdisciplinary and holistic approach to anthropological research and teaching.
The school embraces the expansive nature of anthropological research methods and the need for ‘undisciplined scholarship’ (Rayner) in understanding the manifold complexities of human beings in the world.
Its work ranges from global comparative approaches to locally-focused ethnographic studies and includes the study of humans and other primates across deep time and space.
Many large, multi- and interdisciplinary programmes at the University of Oxford are led by, or involve, anthropologists, bringing anthropology to bear on pressing global challenges such as migration, global health, decolonising heritage and museums, and the study of the evolutionary and cultural logics of social cohesion.
Home to over forty academic staff, a hundred plus doctoral students, providing both master’s programmes and undergraduate degrees, the school is divided into a number of constituent parts:
Standard travel insurance can be provided by the University.
However, students may be required to pay any additional insurance premiums associated with travel to areas with an increased level of risk and/or for travel of more than 12 months duration, and should factor this into their planning for fieldwork.
If known, under 'Proposed supervisor name' enter the name of the academic(s) whom you would like to supervise your research.
Otherwise, leave this field blank.
Ideally three academic letters of reference are required.
Only if one or more such letters cannot be provided should professional reference(s) be supplied instead.
Your research proposal should state the research question, briefly discuss any key literature, discuss methods and provide a basic research timetable.
Your research proposal must be written in English.
The word count does not include any bibliography.
You should submit two pieces of academically-related written work in English, in any discipline.
The two items may be separate extracts from a longer work like a taught-course thesis.
This will be assessed for a comprehensive understanding of the subject area; understanding of problems in the area; ability to construct and defend an argument; powers of analysis; and powers of expression.
† Three-year average (applications for entry in 2022-23 to 2024-25)
This course is offered by the School of Anthropology and Museum Ethnography
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 274672

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/msc-applied-cancer-science:
The MSc in Applied Cancer Science is a one-year, full-time course, designed to develop cancer research scientists of the future, whether that be in academia or in industry.
High-quality understanding of fundamental cancer science is the bedrock of future cancer innovations.
The main aim of this course is to provide you with an in-depth understanding of the principles of DNA damage and repair processes, the tumour microenvironment, and tumour immunology and to discuss how this science is used in cutting-edge research towards future therapies.
The course is based on a series of overarching learning outcomes, which you will be able to demonstrate on completion of your studies:
You will take eight compulsory modules, which are delivered in two-week blocks, following on from each other:
Modules one to four are delivered in Michaelmas term and cover the underpinning principles of cancer biology, starting at the level of the DNA before covering the behaviour of individual cancer cells, then tumours, and extending out to discuss the interactions between cancer and the immune system by the end of the term.
Modules five to eight are delivered in Hilary term and cover the application of the underpinning principles of cancer science from the previous term to the development of therapeutic strategies to target different characteristics of cancer.
You can expect to receive seven to eight lectures and three to four tutorial or practical classes per module.
There will also be preparatory reading, independent study tasks, and formative assessments set throughout the course, to be completed in the non-contact hours.
Alongside the module specific tutorials, you will also attend a series of compulsory Directors’ Tutorials throughout the year.
These cover overarching themes such as critiquing a scientific paper, or essay writing skills, and help to prepare you for specific assessment methods, including the dissertation.
You will have access to the Oncology Education Hub, which includes dedicated lecture and tutorial rooms at the heart of the department, alongside an open plan, unassigned seating workspace for masters and first year DPhil students.
There is a programme of departmental seminars and poster presentation events, which are open to staff and students.
The Oncology Student Network coordinate a programme of student only activities, including both academic and social events.
The allocation of graduate supervision is the responsibility of the Department of Oncology and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Department of Oncology.
You will be assigned a Director of Studies from the course team, who will help you review your progress, and discuss any concerns you have; your Director of Studies and the course administration team will usually be your first port of call for any queries about your studies.
You will also have an advisor at your Oxford college, to whom you can turn if you feel you need to discuss your progress, or anything else pertinent to your study, away from the course team.
During the research project you will be allocated a project supervisor who will be responsible for your supervision and training.
It is recommended that you arrange meetings with your supervisor to take place at least every two weeks.
Taught modules are assessed by a mixture of submitted coursework, presentations, and timed assessments such as examinations.
The taught modules are assessed at the end of the term in which they are delivered.
The dissertation is assessed by a written thesis and a poster presentation at the end of the academic year.
You will have the opportunity to submit formative assignments to develop your writing and presenting skills and receive feedback prior to completing your summative assessed work.
Typically, approximately 40-50% of MSc graduates in the Department of Oncology go on to study for a doctoral level qualification (DPhil, PhD) and around 30% go on to clinical work in some capacity.
Many of our students use the MSc qualification to support their application for medical school, and we often se students who take a year out between pre-clinical and clinical elements of a medical degree to complete the MSc.
Entrance is competitive and most successful applicants will have a first-class degree or the equivalent.
For applicants with a bachelor's degree from the USA, the minimum overall GPA that is normally required to meet the undergraduate-level requirement is 3.5 out of 4.0.
However, entrance is highly competitive and it is anticipated that most successful applicants will have obtained a GPA of 3.7 or higher.
Applicants will be shortlisted based on the quality of the application, including relevant professional experience, which will be assessed against the entry requirements for the course.
Interviews are normally held as part of the admissions process.
It is expected that interviews will be scheduled in January, and will normally be held by video conference.
The interview panel will consist of a minimum of three academic staff.
The purpose of the interview is to:
You will be notified of the outcome of your interview within four weeks.
The Department of Oncology has an established graduate training programme for science graduates and clinical research fellows under the leadership of Professor Mark Middleton.
It is one of the largest departments in the University of Oxford’s Medical Sciences Division.
It houses over 400 staff and graduate students, both clinical and non-clinical, and brings together research and clinical groups from across Oxford who are based at the Old Road Campus Research Building (ORCRB), the Radiobiology Research Institute (RRI), the Weatherall Institute for Molecular Medicine (WIMM) and the NHS Cancer and Haematology Centre.
The Department of Oncology is located in the Old Road Campus Research Building, which includes a large communal atrium containing seating and a cafeteria, and houses the Knowledge Centre, one of the Bodleian Health Care Libraries, which offers workspaces and subject collections.
The department offers promising graduates a broad range of multidisciplinary and translational cancer research projects.
As a result, its graduates come from a wide range of scientific backgrounds, including biology, medicine, engineering, mathematics, chemistry, and physics.
The department prides itself on supporting and training the next generation of world leaders in cancer research to ensure its research continues over the long term.
The department's ethos is to improve treatment of cancer patients by harnessing Oxford University’s scientific research prowess and translating this into an impactful benefit to cancer patients through our own clinical trials.
Working together to achieve this aim, we have renowned experts alongside cutting-edge scientists that collaborate across the university to understand the biology of cancer and how to best adopt new therapeutic strategies in medical and clinical oncology.
Research in the department is focused on the biology of cancer and how to translate discoveries into better treatments for patients.
The department research strategy centres around the three core themes of DNA (including DNA damage, repair, and replication), cell and tissue biology (tumour microenvironment), and immuno-oncology (including cancer vaccines and virotherapy).
Details of individual research groups which work within each of these themes can be found on the department website.
Students work alongside and learn from leaders in their field, and are provided with a world- class academic environment.
They benefit from excellent support services, including a comprehensive portfolio of personal and professional skills development.
The Medical Sciences Division training opportunities cover all aspects of research-related or technical skills, such as ethics, data analysis and statistics and bioinformatics; communications skills including scientific writing and oral and poster presentations, careers and personal development such as personal effectiveness and career planning; and finally academic practice including grant writing, teaching and intellectual property.
If you apply by the December deadline shown on this page and receive a course offer, your application will then be considered for Oxford scholarships.
Alongside Oxford scholarships, you should also consider other opportunities for which you may be eligible including a range of external funding , loan schemes for postgraduate study and any other scholarships which may also still be available after the December deadline as listed on our fees, funding and scholarship search tool .
Further information about funding opportunities for this course can be found on the Medical Science Division website.
The following colleges accept students on the MSc in Applied Cancer Science:
Green Templeton College Jesus College Linacre College Magdalen College Reuben College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Hilda's College Trinity College University College Wolfson College
If it is important for you to have your application considered under a particular deadline – eg under the December deadline in order to be considered for Oxford scholarships – we recommend that you aim to complete and submit your application at least two weeks in advance .
Academic references are preferred.
One professional reference is acceptable, but in cases where more than one such reference is sought you should contact the department to explain why this is necessary.
Your references will be assessed for:
Your statement should be written in English and explain your motivation for applying for the course at Oxford, your relevant experience and education, and the specific areas that interest you and/or you intend to specialise in.
Your statement will be assessed for:
*Two-year average (applications for entry in 2023-24 and 2024-25)
This course is offered by the Department of Oncology
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 617410

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/msc-applied-digital-health:
The MSc in Applied Digital Health is a one-year, full-time course, designed to teach the interdisciplinary knowledge and skills needed in the fast-growing area of digital health.
The MSc is led by the Nuffield Department of Primary Care Health Sciences (NDPCHS).
The course combines front line clinical experience with theoretical and methodological expertise, capitalising on the breadth of internationally leading digital health research in the department.
In addition, recognising the interdisciplinary nature of digital health, the MSc draws on the expertise of faculty from across the University, spanning medicine, social science, engineering, computing and data science.
Digital Health is one of five cross-cutting themes in the department's research strategy.
Applied Digital Health is also one of six themes in the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Oxford & Thames Valley Applied Research Collaboration (ARC), led by Theme Lead John Powell, Academic Director of the MSc in Applied Digital Health.
Academic staff in NDPCHS have world-leading reputations in researching a wide range of digital health topics: from applied social science and clinical researchers leading studies aimed at bringing a critical perspective to understanding the practices and processes of digital health care, to data scientists and software developers working on novel ways to access and analyse and share actionable insights from routine digital data.
Aimed at early-career professionals, entrants to the MSc in Applied Digital Health come from a wide range of backgrounds, including (but not limited to) clinical medicine, medical sociology, psychology, statistics, computer science and engineering.
No pre-existing knowledge is assumed, although you must have an interest in both the social and technical aspects of digital health.
The breadth of content means that this MSc is not suitable for those who wish to focus their studies on only one component of the digital health field.
Upon successful completion of the course you will be able to:
It should be noted that this MSc is not a computing or engineering course.
While it does include significant content on the concepts underlying tools and technologies commonly used in digital health, it does not teach how to programme digital health software.
The teaching on this course is delivered via a range of methods, including lectures, seminars, workshops, presentations, self- directed learning and study, with all theoretical learning underpinned by real world case-studies.
The course consists of eight compulsory modules and a dissertation.
The modules spotlight different ways in which digital health can be used to address the challenges facing twenty-first century healthcare.
These solutions include harnessing multimodal health data to support diagnosis and prognosis; improving outcomes via remote patient monitoring and digital diagnostics; using digital tools to facilitate physical and cognitive behaviour change; facilitating more efficient and effective models of care delivery; reducing the cost of care.
Module titles are as follows:
There are a number of cross-cutting themes that run throughout the modules.
These themes include artificial intelligence and machine learning, behavioural science, challenges facing health systems, electronic health records, ethics, implementation, policy, programming for data analysis, regulation and law, sociotechnical processes, statistics and study design for the evaluation of digital tools.
The modules run consecutively, with each covering a two-week period.
In the first week of each module teaching is delivered via a range of face-to-face methods, including lectures, seminars, and group work.
In the second week you will engage in guided self-study and complete your assessment for the module, with learning further supported by a guest lecture series and a journal club.
In the third term you will undertake an original research project, culminating in a research dissertation and a short presentation.
You will be supported in the selection of a research topic, although the department welcomes students to propose a topic of their choosing (subject to conditions).
Beyond the University, the department has strong links to the active digital health innovation community in academia, the NHS and industry, both in the Oxford area and further afield.
The allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of the Nuffield Department of Primary Care Health Sciences and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
A supervisor may be found outside the Nuffield Department of Primary Care Health Sciences.
Students will be assigned an academic advisor for the entirety of the course, in addition to their dissertation supervisor, who they will meet with twice a term.
In addition, each student will be allocated a dissertation supervisor for that component of the course.
During the first two terms there are a series of formative assessments designed to enable teaching staff to monitor your progress.
You will be provided with feedback that will enable you to improve your learning by helping you identify your strengths and weaknesses.
There are also eight summative assessments in the first two terms, one per module.
Each of these summative assessments account for 8.75% of the final mark.
The assessments vary according to the content of the module but may include essays, sets of exercises and presentations.
The dissertation in the third term is worth 30% of the final mark.
This course provides graduates with the skills to creatively and successfully harness digital health tools, be that as researchers, policymakers, technology specialists or health practitioners.
For example, some students may go on to roles within health organisations that require digital health expertise, or similar roles in pharmaceutical, consulting or health tech companies.
Others may be experienced health professionals who seek to exploit digital health opportunities in their own practice.
Some may want to pursue an academic career path and may go on to a doctoral research position or a health policy role within government.
Wherever their particular interests may lie, it is anticipated that course graduates will be well placed to do pioneering work in the digital health sector.
Examples of relevant degrees include biomedical sciences, computer science, engineering, human sciences, mathematics, medical sociology, medicine, neuroscience, psychology, public policy and statistics.
In exceptional circumstances, applicants with a distinguished record of workplace experience or other relevant achievements may be accepted with lower grades at undergraduate level.
The department nevertheless strongly encourages any applicants from industry to include at least one reference from an academic or someone in academic-related field.
Applications will be shortlisted based on the applicant’s degree, relevant experience, references, and the personal statement and submitted written work.
Applicants selected for interview will be notified as soon as possible after the deadline for applications has passed.
The interview panel will consist of senior members of the programme team and interviews will normally last around 15 minutes.
All shortlisted applicants will be interviewed via video link.
The University of Oxford's Nuffield Department of Primary Care Health Sciences has been one of the world's most important primary care centres for over 20 years.
The department is a world-class leader in research and training, aiming to rethink the way healthcare is delivered in general practice and other primary care settings, both across the UK and globally.
Integrating evidence and innovation, its main research focus is on the prevention, early diagnosis and management of common illness, health services research and digital health.
Research is led by internationally renowned scientists; many of whom are practising GPs, but Nuffield Department of Primary Care Health Sciences also has academics from a range of non-medical disciplines including the social sciences and humanities.
Research and teaching in the department cover a range of health issues you would typically see your GP for, such as cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, infectious illnesses, childhood conditions, diet and nutrition, smoking cessation, and cancer care.
However, its work extends beyond this.
Key areas of focus include understanding and enhancing patient experiences, leveraging big data for insights, developing innovative digital health solutions, and collaborating on international healthcare initiatives.
By combining medical expertise with cutting-edge research, the department focuses on understanding and improving the experiences of patients, utilising big data, developing digital health interventions and working internationally.
The Nuffield Department of Primary Care Health Sciences has methodological expertise in clinical decision making and diagnostics, clinical epidemiology, medical statistics, modelling, qualitative research and the wider application of social science theory and methods to address practical and theoretical challenges in health and care settings.
The department also has a dedicated in-house Primary Care Clinical Trials Unit and has an international reputation for developing research methodologies to ensure that research findings have a positive impact on clinical practice.
The department is home to several of the National Institute for Health Research's 200 most prestigious and prominent researchers.
These NIHR Senior Investigators contribute significantly to the health sciences as senior leaders, demonstrate research excellence and lead in training of the NIHR's people.
The department teaches elements of the undergraduate programme in medicine including arranging placements for medical students in GP practices.
It also provide a highly supportive environment for postgraduates whether they are registered for a DPhil, enrolled on one of its short courses, or the Evidence Based Health Care programme (administered by the Department for Continuing Education).
You will also have access to the Medical Sciences Graduate School.
The department welcomes domestic and international students to join its experienced and enthusiastic teachers, mentors and supervisors in aspirational study and research.
The department's research is quickly translated into improvements in patient care.
In the past five years the department's research has changed clinical guidelines in many areas, including finding an effective treatment for COVID-19 in the community, more effective ways for the NHS to manage patients who wish to lose weight, identified early signs of serious illness in children, enhanced the diagnostic pathways for diabetes, heart failure and for hypertension, improved the recognition and treatment of stroke risk in atrial fibrillation, and altered health policy on smoking cessation.
To ensure research is relevant and beneficial, the department works closely with patient and public representatives.
Please note that this course requires that you attend in Oxford for teaching, and you may incur additional travel and accommodation expenses for this.
Further, as part of your course requirements, you will need to choose a dissertation, a project or a thesis topic.
Depending on your choice of topic and the research required to complete it, you may incur additional expenses, such as travel expenses, research expenses, and field trips.
The following colleges accept students on the MSc in Applied Digital Health:
Harris Manchester College Jesus College Linacre College Lincoln College Reuben College St Catherine's College St Cross College Somerville College Wolfson College
Your statement should focus on your academic achievements and interests rather than personal achievements, interest and aspirations.
Academic essays or other writing samples from your most recent qualification, typed and written in English, are required.
The work should demonstrate your ability to write a good academic document though it does not need to be related to the proposed area of study.
Extracts of the requisite length from longer work are also permitted if prefaced by a note that puts them in context.
Your written work will be assessed for:
This course is offered by the Nuffield Department of Primary Care Health Sciences
✉ [email protected]

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/msc-applied-landscape-archaeology:
This two-year part-time Master of Science (MSc) course is concerned with the theories and methods of landscape archaeology.
The course is intended for those with a degree (undergraduate or postgraduate) or an advanced diploma in archaeology or a related subject.
This MSc is a part-time modular course over two years, leading to a University of Oxford graduate degree in archaeology.
The course is designed for the needs of students who wish to study part-time, and this includes those who are in full-time employment.
Those with a personal or professional interest in landscape archaeology are welcome to apply.
Landscape archaeology is an increasingly popular and widely understood concept.
Using a multi-period approach, it is concerned with understanding past human impacts on the resources, topography and environment of the whole landscape, from uplands to coasts, and from farmed landscapes to urban/industrial areas.
Many newer methods of research are being developed in landscape archaeology, including digital mapping and geophysics and remote-sensing techniques such as LIDAR.
These are taking their place alongside field-walking, historic landscape analysis, aerial photography and selective excavation to provide a flexible and effective armoury of techniques for the researcher.
Skills such as survey and characterisation are becoming essential for anyone involved in the management of the historic environment.
Effective communication of the value and potential of the historic landscape is vital in the world of planning, tourism, outreach and education.
The course involves a combination of academic study and field practice.
It is designed to appeal to those who already have experience of studying archaeology (or a closely-related subject) at undergraduate or postgraduate level and who wish to expand their academic, practical and professional skills in landscape archaeology.
With a strong (but not exclusive) emphasis on the archaeology of Britain in our teaching, the course focuses on the applications of research methods in varying landscape situations.
The course format is flexible and enables students to pursue their own research interests leading to a 15,000-word dissertation.
This can be on a theme, area or subject in Britain or elsewhere.
The course is taught using a combination of lectures/seminars in Oxford, field visits and practical work, supported by tutor contact and information supplied via a Virtual learning Environment (VLE) which can be accessed at any time.
Self-study in libraries or at home will form a major part of your experience on the course.
Many students undertake some fieldwork during their time on the course.
You will be encouraged, where appropriate, to participate more widely in archaeological fieldwork or research projects, but unless these are part of the course, the department does not normally offer its own resources/facilities for supporting these.
Dissertations are supported through personal tutorials with the course director and/or your dissertation tutor.
This course is part-time.
The majority of teaching takes place on Saturdays, normally between 10am and 4pm.
There is a landscape survey training week in the early summer of the final year (Year B), which requires attendance over seven days (Saturday to Friday).
Arranging accommodation during the landscape survey training week is the responsibility of the student; you will receive information and guidance about the field week location well in advance.
The department is well-equipped for field teaching and supporting individual students’ field studies, mainly field survey.
It has a range of archaeological survey and IT equipment, including GIS and geophysical equipment and software, which may be borrowed/used by students, after appropriate experience or training.
If you have a query about equipment or facilities needed to support your studies, please contact the Programme Director.
Essential transport to field and practical teaching locations away from the department is normally provided, but you may also use your vehicle or other means where appropriate.
The Rewley House Continuing Education Library , one of the Bodleian Libraries, is situated in Rewley House.
The department aims to support the wide variety of subjects covered by departmental courses at many academic levels.
The department also has a collection of around 73,000 books together with periodicals.
PCs in the library give access to the internet and the full range of electronic resources subscribed to by the University of Oxford.
The Jessop Reading Room adjoining the library is available for study.
The department's Graduate School provides a stimulating and enriching learning and research environment for the department's graduate students, fostering intellectual and social interaction between graduates of different disciplines and professions from the UK and around the globe.
The Graduate School will help you make the most of the wealth of resources and opportunities available, paying particular regard to the support and guidance needed if you are following a part-time graduate programme.
The department’s graduate community comprises over 600 members following taught programmes and more than 70 undertaking doctoral research.
The department provides various IT facilities , including the Student Computing Facility which provides individual PCs for your use.
Many of the department's courses are delivered through blended learning or have a website to support face-to-face study.
In most cases, online support is delivered through a virtual learning environment.
Depending on the programme you are taking with the department, you may require accommodation at some point in your student career.
Rewley House is ideally located in central Oxford; the city's historic sites, colleges, museums, shops and restaurants are only a few minutes’ walk away.
The department has 35 en-suite study bedrooms, all with high quality amenities, including internet access.
The Rewley House dining room has seating for up to 132 people.
A full meal service is available daily.
The department operates a Common Room with bar for students.
Coffee and tea is provided to students on this course in the Common Room before each teaching session at Rewley House.
At other times, coffees and other drinks and snacks are available for purchase from the common room bar.
The allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of the Department for Continuing Education and this role will usually be performed by the Course Director.
It is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Department for Continuing Education.
The Course Director acts as academic supervisor for all students over the two years.
A dissertation tutor will also be appointed at the appropriate time in the course when your topic is approved (usually early in the second year).
This may be the Course Director, or another of the course teaching team.
Most students have the opportunity to consult their dissertation tutor between four and six times, online or in person.
The course is assessed through a series of written assignments and a practical log-book.
Two Core Papers (taught in Term One in each year) have two written assignments, and four advanced papers (taught in Terms Two and Three in each year) have one written assignment each (with the exception of Digital Landscapes paper which is submitted in two parts).
Where an optional flexi-placement is taken, this results in an assignment which replaces one of the advanced papers.
The landscape survey training week has a practical log book, and there is a dissertation.
All students are required to attend an oral examination ( viva voce ) at the end, in order to pass the course.
A number of students have gone on to DPhil/PhD programmes at Oxford and elsewhere, several of which have been funded.
Others have developed their careers in UK and European heritage professions, including working for organisations such as Historic England, The National Trust for Scotland, Oxford Archaeology, National Museums Liverpool, Ministry of Defence, National Maritime Museum, McDonald Institute (University of Cambridge) county and regional heritage, HERs and curatorial advisory services, Portable Antiquities Scheme, and in commercial consultancy and field practice.
Others have used the knowledge and learning experience gained on the course in their existing roles, such as in teaching, policy, or landscape management.
A BA/BSc degree (in combined honours) or a PGCert in a relevant subject may also be acceptable.
Interviews are held as part of the admissions process.
Interviews take place at Rewley House, University of Oxford, and normally last for 30 minutes.
Interviews are conducted by a minimum of two interviewers.
An invitation to interview is not a guarantee of an offer of a place.
Where a candidate is unable to attend in person, an online interview may be offered.
We do not offer places on this course without conducting an interview.
All candidates whose applications demonstrate that they meet the stated entry criteria will be invited for interview.
For the January application date, interviews will be held in the month of February; for the March date in the month of April; for applications after March, if the course remains open to further applicants, in the month following receipt of the completed application.
If you are invited to attend an interview, you may be asked about your ability to commit sufficient time to study and fulfil all elements outlined in the course description (eg completing coursework, assessments, and attending course and University events and modules).
The need for new learning opportunities throughout life is recognised throughout society.
An intensive, initial period of higher education is not always enough, or possible, in times of rapid social, economic and technological change.
All graduate students on the department's courses are members of its Graduate School.
The department's  Graduate School aims to provide a stimulating and enriching environment for learning and research.
It also supports intellectual and social interaction between graduates of different disciplines and professions from the UK and around the globe.
The department's Graduate School will help you make the most of the wealth of resources and opportunities available, paying particular regard to the support and guidance needed if you are following a part-time graduate programme.
The department is located in a block of attractive Victorian houses in Wellington Square in central Oxford close to some of the University's major libraries and museums and to the Radcliffe Observatory Quarter.
The city's historic sites, colleges, shops and restaurants are only a few minutes' walk away.
The modernised and extended site has its own fully equipped seminar rooms, library, reading room, student computing facility, graduate school study/social room, dining-room, common-room, garden seating areas and short-term student accommodation.
The department has 35 en-suite study bedrooms , all with high quality amenities, including internet access.
Further information about funding opportunities for this course can be found on the department's website.
This course has residential sessions in Oxford.
You will need to meet your travel and accommodation costs in attending these sessions.
Further, as part of your course requirements, you may need to choose a dissertation, a project or a thesis topic.
The following colleges accept students on the MSc in Applied Landscape Archaeology:
Blackfriars Campion Hall Harris Manchester College Kellogg College Wycliffe Hall
If you wish to discuss your application, please contact the Course Administrator, via the contact details provided on this page.
At least two of your references must come from individuals who are capable of commenting on your academic ability.
One may be a professional reference.
Your references will support intellectual ability, academic achievement, motivation, ability to work in a group.
You should provide evidence of your ability to commit sufficient time to study and fulfil all elements outlined in the course description (eg completing coursework, assessments, and attending course and University events and modules).
This will be assessed for evidence of motivation for and understanding of the proposed area of study and the ability to present a reasoned case in English.
Academic essays or other writing samples from your most recent qualification, written in English, are required.
Extracts of the requisite length from longer work are also permissible, including excerpts from a dissertation.
For this purpose, your submission does not need to give a complete coverage of its topic.
Professional or other reports/publications (or excerpts from these) are only acceptable for this purpose if you are the sole author and they are an accurate reflection of your own writing and presentational abilities.
The topic(s) of your submitted work should ideally be relevant to the subject area of the course.
This will be reviewed assessed for comprehensive understanding of the subject area; understanding of problems in the area; ability to construct and defend an argument; powers of analysis; and powers of expression and presentation.
This course is offered by the Department for Continuing Education
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 286945

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/msc-applied-linguistics-and-second-language-acquisition:
Applied linguistics is an interdisciplinary field which mediates between the theory of language and the practice of language learning and language use.
It is also an overarching field that includes second language acquisition (SLA) and, as such, can shed light on the teaching and learning of a second or foreign language.
The MSc in Applied Linguistics and Second Language Acquisition is a popular course which will introduce you to key issues within the field of applied linguistics, with a focus on second language learning and teaching.
The topics represented in the course may also draw from on related fields such as psychology, education (language teaching/learning), linguistics, and sociolinguistics.
The MSc is taken full-time over one year and consists of six core taught modules and a research dissertation.
The core modules are:
All taught modules take place in Michaelmas and Hilary terms.
In Trinity term the focus of study is the dissertation.
In addition to the compulsory assessed modules in Michaelmas and Hilary terms, you will attend non-assessed modules in research methods (including critical reading) and quantitative data analysis.
The course is designed to provide you with an opportunity to reflect and further develop your understanding of both theoretical and practical considerations in the field of language learning and teaching.
It will encourage you to develop a broad theoretical base reflecting current research in applied linguistics.
Additionally, this course makes links between the different disciplines which contribute to our knowledge of language learning and issues related to language pedagogy.
Research in the department is organised around three major themes:
Within each of these themes there are several research groups and centres.
All staff and doctoral students belong to one or more of these research groups, each of which has its own seminar programme to which graduate students often contribute.
In addition, the department as a whole sponsors regular seminars and public lectures which attract distinguished national and international speakers.
The Bodleian Education Library, located in the Department of Education, specialises in material on education and related fields.
As well as a print collection of books, journals and statistics, the library provides access to a wide range of electronic resources.
The library also houses a collection of teaching resources, primarily in support of subjects covered by the department's secondary PGCE (initial teacher education) course.
The Social Sciences Library provides valuable additional resource to students pursuing programmes in the Department of Education.
For this course, the allocation of graduate supervision is the responsibility of the Department of Education and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Department of Education.
Students may expect 10 hours’ dissertation supervision over the academic year, including supervision meetings and time spent advising via email (but excluding time spent reading and feeding back on written work).
Supervisors usually meet with their MSc students 3-4 times per term for between 30–60 minutes per meeting
Students will complete six core modules each assessed by a written assignment, and a dissertation on a topic selected by the student and approved by the supervisor.
The core modules are assessed at the end of each taught term, three in Michaelmas and three in Hilary.
Assignment titles are released to students in the final week of term and are due for submission by the beginning of the following term.
Work on the dissertation begins in Week One of Michaelmas term and is due for submission in August.
Before dissertation research can take place, students are required to complete a course on research integrity.
Past students from the Department of Education have gone on to academic and research careers at universities in the UK (eg Oxford, Edinburgh, Warwick, UCL, King's College, St.
Mary's, Liverpool) and across the world (eg Stanford, Princeton, MIT, Hong Kong, Chile), or are employed across a wide range of other sectors such as policy for government departments or NGOs, international organisations such as OECD, think tanks, administration at local and national levels, as well as language teaching.
The department’s ‘Conversations with Alumni’ feature includes interviews with two DPhil alumni on their career paths after Oxford.
For applicants with a degree from the USA, the minimum GPA sought is 3.6 out of 4.0.
Publications are not expected.
Candidates will be shortlisted based on their prior qualifications and experience.
Interviews for shortlisted candidates are normally held two to six weeks after the closing date of the admissions round.
They are normally conducted by two interviewers using Teams video-conferencing.
You may be asked to outline your research interests and experience and how these might be developed during the dissertation element of the course.
However, you are not expected to have a fully developed research plan at this stage.
We acknowledge that your plans and ideas may change in discussion with your supervisor once you have started the course.
You may also be asked why you want to study in this area and the reasons why this particular course is of interest to you.
Oxford has been a major contributor to the field of education for over 100 years and today the University’s Department of Education has a world class reputation for research, for teacher education and for its graduate courses.
The department combines international standing as a research-intensive department with the highest quality teaching.
Its masters' courses are delivered by academics and research experts, the majority of whom are permanent staff engaged in their fields of research.
The DPhil in Education has excellent facilities for the large number of full-time research students who are well integrated into the research of the department.
The department has an outstanding research profile.
In the 2021 evaluation of research quality in UK universities, the Research Excellence Framework (REF), Oxford University’s Department of Education had the highest overall percentage of research judged to be 4* (ie world-leading in terms of originality, significance and rigour) in Education in the UK.
The department has ESRC recognition for its graduate training, and its teacher training was rated ‘outstanding’ by the Office for Standards in Education (OfSTED) in its most recent inspection in 2024.
A wide range of funded research projects are based in the department and many of these projects have had a major impact on national policy.
">Video of Ahmed Ahmed | My Oxford
However, as part of your course requirements, you will need to choose a dissertation topic.
You will need to meet these additional costs yourself, although you may be able to apply for small grants from your department and/or college to help you cover some of these expenses.
The following colleges accept students for the MSc in Applied Linguistics and Second Language Acquisition:
Blackfriars Campion Hall Jesus College Kellogg College Linacre College Regent's Park College St Anne's College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Hugh's College St John's College Wolfson College Worcester College Wycliffe Hall
One of your references should be from your most recent academic tutor.
If you are currently in employment, you would be expected to provide a reference from your employer alongside academic references which comment on your academic suitability for the course.
Your references will support intellectual ability, academic achievement, motivation and ability to work in a group.
Academic essays or other writing samples, written in English, are required.
Extracts of the requisite length from longer pieces of work are also permissible.
You may submit written work previously completed for a prior course of study if the topic is relevant eg an assignment or chapter of a dissertation.
If you do not have any existing material that fits this requirement, we suggest that you may like to critique an article or write a book review in the area of the course content.
The written work should be related to the course, and should be on two separate topics.
The word count should include any bibliography or brief footnotes.
This work will be assessed for understanding of the subject area, an ability to construct and defend an argument, and proficiency in academic English.
This course is offered by the Department of Education
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 274183

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/msc-applied-linguistics-for-language-teaching:
The MSc Applied Linguistics for Language Teaching is a degree aimed at professionals of TESOL (Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages) or modern foreign languages.
It is taught primarily via distance/online learning.
This innovative two-year part-time course offers a cutting-edge introduction to the linguistic and pedagogic knowledge needed for teaching language.
While the concepts covered in the course can be applied to all languages in most contexts, there is a strong opportunity for students to specialise in the teaching of English language in university settings.
A low-residency course, it is characterised by intense online interaction and feedback, using a range of communication media.
Its small-group teaching format pursues the Oxford tradition of demanding much of students and giving them much in return.
The course is taught over two academic years, preceded by a week’s induction module in Oxford.
Numbers on the course are kept low, to ensure quality of teaching and learning.
The course consists of six summatively assessed modules, two in term one and one in term two of each year, and a dissertation of between 15,000 and 20,000 words submitted at the end of the course.
You will take the following modules:
In addition to the six summatively assessed modules, you will take a formatively assessed module on Research Methods in term two of the first year, to help prepare you for your dissertation project.
Beginning in term three of the first year of the course, you will work on your dissertation project under the supervision of a member of the applied linguistics research group.
You will be expected to spend up to 20 hours per week on the course during term time, engaging in independent reading, online discussions, group work, listening to webinars, and writing review and reflection papers.
In addition, you will be given access to recorded lectures from the department's graduate modules on Research Methods in Education and Statistics.
These are non-compulsory and non-assessed.
In addition, the department sponsors regular seminars and public lectures which attract distinguished national and international speakers.
These seminars are often provided online as well as in person, and recordings are made available for students unable to attend due, for example, to time differences.
As a part-time student you will be required to participate in online weekly classes, seminars, and other academic tasks during term time.
With the exception of the induction module, all coursework is delivered in an asynchronous format.
Materials are made available on the University's virtual learning environment two weeks in advance of the expected completion date for the associated activities.
There is, therefore, flexibility in the dates and pattern of participation each week to fit into your work schedule.
Attendance, either in-person or online, will be required for a one-week induction module, which is held prior to commencement of the course, usually in late August.
Supervision meetings for the dissertation project are held in person or online, depending on circumstances.
The Bodleian Education Library, located at the centre of the Department of Education, specialises in material on education and related fields.
The library also houses a collection of teaching resources, primarily in support of subjects covered by the department's secondary PGCE course.
Students may expect 10 hours of contact time with their supervisors during the course.
The specific timing and number of meetings may vary somewhat according to the nature and requirements of a student’s dissertation project.
Indicatively, it is usual to have three supervision meetings in Term 3 of the first year and two in each of Terms 1 and 2 of the second year.
In Term 3 of the second year, students work independently on their projects, though maintain email contact with their supervisors.
Students will complete six modules, each assessed by submitted assignments (usually taking the form of a 2,500-word take-home essay), and a dissertation topic selected by the student and approved by the supervisor.
Past students from the Department of Education have gone on to doctoral study and academic and research careers at universities in the UK (eg Oxford, Edinburgh, Warwick, UCL, King's College, St.
Mary's, Liverpool) and across the world (eg Stanford, Princeton, MIT, Hong Kong, Chile).
Many have gone on to be employed across a wide range of other sectors, such as government policy, NGOs, international organisations such as OECD, think tanks and administration at local and national levels.
Candidates will be shortlisted based on academic ability, potential and fit of interests with the course content.
They are conducted by two interviewers, in person or using Teams video-conferencing, and will focus on candidates’ academic and professional background.
Candidates’ understanding of themes related to language teaching/learning and research may be explored.
Candidates may be asked to outline their research interests and how these might be developed during the dissertation element of the course, although students are not expected to already have a fully developed research plan.
This will be developed in discussion with successful applicants’ supervisors once they have started the course.
Candidates may also be asked why they want to study in this area and the reasons why this particular course is of interest.
If you are currently employed, you may be asked to provide evidence that your employment will not affect your ability to study and that you can commit sufficient time to fulfil all elements outlined in the course description.
You may be asked to provide details about your pattern of employment and obtain a statement from your employer confirming their commitment to make time available for you to study, eg to complete coursework, and attend course and University events and modules.
If you are embarking on study with the support of your employer and intend to use data obtained through your employment, evidence should be provided of permission to use your employers’ data in your proposed research project.
You will be required to cover your own accommodation costs in Oxford the induction week.
The department estimates that accommodation costs can start at around £70 per night in a college or around £150 in a hotel (single rate).
Students should also factor in costs for meals during your stay.
As part of your course requirements, you will need to choose a dissertation topic.
You will need to meet these additional costs yourself, although you may be able to apply for small grants from your college to help you cover some of these expenses.
The following colleges accept students on the MSc in Applied Linguistics for Language Teaching:
Blackfriars Linacre College The Queen's College Regent's Park College St Anne's College Wycliffe Hall
Professional references may be accepted from applicants who are returning to study after considerable time in the workplace.
Your statement should be written in English and explain your motivation for applying for the course at Oxford, your relevant experience and education, and the specific components of the course that interest you.
Excerpts of the requisite length from longer works are also permissible.
You may submit written work previously completed for a prior course of study if the topic is relevant, such as an assignment or chapter of a dissertation, provided it meets the requirements.
If you do not have any existing material that fits this requirement, you may like to critique an article or write a book review based on the course subject.
The written work should be on two separate topics.
The word count should not include any bibliography or brief footnotes.
This will be assessed for understanding of the subject area, an ability to construct and defend an argument, and proficiency in academic English.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/mth-applied-theology:
The MTh in Applied Theology is designed to enable theological reflection upon experience in pastoral practice.
It may be taken if candidates hold a ministerial or pastoral appointment at present, or if they are able to include a period of approved pastoral experience in your course of study on the MTh.
The course is divided into two parts:
You will take four units in total during Part I of the course.
The two core units are:
Further units may include the following options, subject to supervisor availability:
Core classes and seminars on methodology, approaches and topics in applied theology will be offered weekly.
Both full-time and part-time students attend these classes and seminars in person during their first year.
The classes will include required reading and discussion.
Extended essays for particular units will be supervised by an individual tutor.
In addition to the core classes, the Applied Theology Research Seminars provide an opportunity for all students to hear from senior members of the University as well as visiting scholars.
The Research Presentation Seminars allow students to present their current research to one another and receive feedback.
Thus there is a balance of supported learning and independent research.
You will be encouraged to attend further lectures and postgraduate seminars offered by the Faculty of Theology and Religion.
Participation in some of these may require permission of the convenor.
Colleges may offer further seminars for their Applied Theology students.
In Part II of the MTh, you will write a dissertation of up to 20,000 words on an agreed aspect of applied theology.
This course can be studied full-time or part-time with both modes requiring attendance in Oxford.
Full-time students are subject to the University's Residence requirements .
The full-time course is studied over two years.
The part-time course has the same requirements, but is studied over three to four years.
You may transfer from full-time to part-time after the first year.
As a part-time student, you may be non-residential but you must attend classes and seminars in Oxford on at least one day each week of term, sometimes more, during your first year and continue to take part in occasional seminars and supervisions for your essays during the subsequent years.
Colleges may also require attendance at their own postgraduate seminars.
For example, if you are a student at Wycliffe Hall you will be expected to attend a weekly seminar in college.
Ordinands and those in ministerial training will have additional classes and commitments arranged by their college which will require their attendance.
It is strongly advised that you live within commutable distance of Oxford (UK) for at least the first year of the course.
The Faculty of Theology and Religion will be based in the Schwarzman Centre for the Humanities, a brand-new building at the University of Oxford due to open in 2025, which will accommodate seven faculties, two institutes, a new library, a large number of well-equipped teaching and seminar rooms, and performance and arts venues.
The faculty will have its own centre and social hub within the building which will also facilitate interdisciplinary and collaborative work.
The library, part of the Bodleian Libraries, will house lending collections for Theology.
The Philosophy and Theology Faculties Library (PTFL) is located in the Radcliffe Observatory Quarter on the same site as the Schwarzman Centre.
The PTFL is a lending library primarily for staff and students of the two faculties, in support of research, teaching and learning.
It has a collection of c.
30,000 books for loan on open access, with a further 20,000 available by request from remote store.
It is also a delivery location for books from the Bodleian stacks for reference use in the library.
Many books are now also available in electronic format; some are downloadable for 24-hour loan.
Students may also use their college library, which contains some of the core theological texts.
The Oxford University Language Centre offers free or discounted courses to members of the University who wish to learn or improve a foreign language relevant to their academic work – or indeed for their general interest and education Access to classes may be arranged if you wish to read primary sources (eg Bonhoeffer or Barth) in their original language.
It also offers courses in academic English, which may be particularly useful for international students, as well as general English classes for partners of students.
If a course is required for study or research, there is a priority enrolment scheme.
Classes in Biblical languages may also be available in college or in advanced postgraduate seminars in the Faculty of Theology and Religion.
Your course director can advise you on your options.
This course has unit/module-specific supervision arrangements, meaning that supervisors are assigned for each module/assessment unit rather than for the full duration of the course.
Therefore, it is usual for students to be supervised by several different supervisors over the course of their studies.
You will be assigned supervisors to help you formulate and prepare your essay projects, as well as the dissertation.
The number of meetings with supervisors will vary, but you should expect around three supervisions per essay and more for the dissertation.
Postgraduate students at Oxford are expected to take responsibility for contacting assigned supervisors to set up times to meet and to ensure that they do this in a timely and considerate way.
In addition you will meet with course tutors, college course directors and/or the MTh Course Coordinator, whether at classes or in one-to-one meetings.
For this course, the allocation of teaching of weekly classes and leading research seminars is the responsibility of the Faculty of Theology and Religion.
Allocation of supervisors for assessed work is the responsibility of the student’s college and is arranged in consultation with their college Course Director.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Faculty of Theology and Religion.
Part I of the MTh consists of four units, each of which is assessed by an extended essay of 7,000 words.
Part II is assessed by a 15,000-20,000-word dissertation on an agreed aspect of applied theology.
There are two submission windows each year: after the end of Hilary term (Friday of 0th week of Trinity term) and at the end of the Long Vacation (Friday of 0th week of Michaelmas term).
In most circumstances, full-time students submit one essay (typically the Doctrine, Context and Practice unit), or occasionally two, after the end of Hilary term and the rest of the Part I essays at the end of the Long Vacation.
Occasionally, permission is given to submit the Experiential Project at the end of Hilary term of the second year.
The dissertation must be submitted by the end of the second Long Vacation.
Submission timelines for part-time students typically require at least one essay submitted ideally by the end of the first Hilary term but at the latest by the end of the first Long Vacation and the rest of the Part I essays by the end of the second Long Vacation.
The dissertation would then be due before completing their time on the course.
Students who leave the University of Oxford with graduate degrees in theology enter a variety of careers all around the world.
The majority who graduate with the MTh in Applied Theology secure employment in Christian ministry or other faith-based pastoral contexts.
Occasionally students have progressed to doctoral study from the MTh.
(Supervisors may also change during your studies where the course has unit or module-specific supervision arrangements – as explained in the ‘Supervision’ section of this page where this applies.)
In cases where an applicant has completed an undergraduate degree in a different field, they will need to have completed a PGDip or postgraduate degree in theology.
If an applicant’s degree is not in theology or divinity but instead in religious studies or a closely related field, their academic transcript must show substantive background in a range of theological topics.
Entrance is very competitive.
However, most successful applicants have achieved GPA scores of 3.8 or higher.
Other examination results may be submitted alongside degree qualifications.
If offered, the minimum Graduate Record Examination (GRE) scores normally sought are 160 in verbal reasoning, 5.0 in analytical writing and 150 in quantitative reasoning.
Progression to the DPhil in Theology relies on a strong performance in the taught course as well as an outstanding application and a research project that can be supervised by a member of the faculty.
The faculty would normally expect a final grade of 67% or above.
Interviews are not normally held as part of the University’s admissions process for this course.
For ordinands and ministerial students however, the training college may have an interview as part of their process.
The Faculty of Theology and Religion at Oxford is a global centre for research in a wide range of fields.
There are over 150 graduate students currently studying within the faculty.
Few institutions can offer Oxford’s combination of historic resources, teaching expertise, and a lively research culture where new concepts, theories, and interpretations are discussed and debated everywhere from the seminar room to the college dining table.
Oxford provides its research students with exceptional study resources, including outstanding libraries and a host of research centres.
As a leading centre for research, a wide variety of experienced specialists are available to supervise doctoral research in numerous fields of theology and religion at Oxford.
Graduate study in theology and religion at Oxford gives you the opportunity to participate in the faculty’s research culture, to benefit from its outstanding expertise and resources, and to develop your own ideas and thinking.
The faculty offers master’s degrees in all major areas of theology and the study of religions.
Most subjects are available as either a nine-month Master of Studies (MSt) degree or as a 21-month Master of Philosophy (MPhil) degree, which has a substantial research component.
The doctoral degree, the DPhil, is offered in all areas of theology and study of religions.
A postgraduate diploma (PGDip) is recommended to those who wish to study theology and religion at graduate level but do not have a first degree in theology or religious studies.
The faculty offers a Master of Theology (MTh) and Postgraduate Diploma (PGDip) in Applied Theology to enable theological reflection upon experience in pastoral practice.
References should generally be academic.
Professional references are acceptable but limited in what they can demonstrate about academic ability; you should submit no more than one such reference.
Your references will support your academic ability, your relevant background knowledge and language skills, and overall suitability for your chosen course.
You should provide a statement of purpose, written in English, evidencing your motivation and suitability for graduate study at Oxford.
This will be assessed for your commitment to graduate study.
The statement may also include details of your possible future research plans, career aspirations, and what you hope to do with this Oxford qualification.
It will be normal for your ideas subsequently to change in some ways as you investigate the evidence and develop your project.
You should nevertheless make the best effort you can to demonstrate the extent of your research question, sources and method at this moment.
Your statement should focus on academic endeavour rather than personal achievements, interests and aspirations.
You are free to determine the length of your statement of purpose.
However, if you are unsure about how much to write you should contact the faculty directly for advice.
Extracts of the requisite length from longer work are also permissible if prefaced by a note which puts them into context.
Written work submissions should relate closely to the proposed area of study.
This will be assessed for an appropriate intellectual standard, including good theological understanding, conceptual sophistication, analytical and critical skill, and the ability to sustain a cogent argument.
This course is offered by the Faculty of Theology and Religion
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 270714

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/pgdip-applied-theology:
The Postgraduate Diploma (PGDip) in Applied Theology is designed to enable theological reflection upon experience in pastoral practice in the context of ministry in the Church.
It may be taken if you hold a pastoral appointment at present, or if you are able to include a period of approved pastoral experience in your course of study for the PGDip.
You will take four units in total.
Core classes and seminars on methodology, approaches and topics in applied theology will be offered weekly during term.
Students attending part-time will need to attend these each week during their first year.
Both full-time and part-time students attend these classes and seminars in person.
The Research Presentation Seminars allow students to present their current research to one another and receive feedback and are open to PGDip students in the second half of their course.
The full-time course is studied over one year.
The part-time course has the same requirements, but is studied over two years.
If studying part-time, you may be non-residential but you must attend classes and seminars in Oxford on at least one day each week of term, sometimes more, during your first year.
Colleges may offer further seminars for their Applied Theology students and expect attendance.
It is strongly advised that you live within commutable distance of Oxford (UK).
The Oxford University Language Centre offers free or discounted courses to members of the University who wish to learn or improve a foreign language relevant to their academic work – or indeed for their general interest and education.
Access to classes may be arranged if you wish to read primary sources (eg Bonhoeffer or Barth) in their original language.
It also offers courses in academic English, which may be particularly useful for international students, as well as general English classes for partners of students.
You will be assigned supervisors to help you formulate and prepare your essay projects.
The number of meetings with supervisors will vary, but you should expect around three supervisions per essay.
Each of the four units is assessed by a 7,000 word extended essay.
In most circumstances, students on the full-time PGDip submit one essay (typically the Doctrine, Context and Practice unit), or occasionally two, after the end of Hilary term and the rest at the end of the Long Vacation.
Submission timelines for part-time students typically require at least one essay submitted by the end of the first Long Vacation and the rest by the end of the second Long Vacation.
Students who leave the University of Oxford with graduate qualifications in Theology enter a variety of careers all around the world.
The majority who graduate with the Postgraduate Diploma in Applied Theology either progress to further study, usually in the MTh in Applied Theology , or secure employment in Christian ministry or other faith-based pastoral work.
Some progress to careers such as school teachers, social workers or military officers.
For this course, we recommend that you visit our dedicated funding pages which include details of a range of external funding and loan schemes for postgraduate study .
Some scholarships may also be available through our fees, funding and scholarship search tool .
You should review the information carefully, including the eligibility criteria and application deadlines, noting that not all funding opportunities are available for postgraduate diploma and postgraduate certificate courses.
Your references will support your academic ability, your relevant background knowledge and language skills, and overall suitability for your chosen programme of study.
This will be assessed for evidence of your commitment to graduate study.
It will be normal for your ideas to change subsequently in some ways as you investigate the evidence and develop your project.
You should nevertheless make the best effort you can to demonstrate the extent of your research questions, sources and method at this moment.
Extracts of the requisite length from longer pieces are accepted if prefaced by a note which puts them in context.
Written work need not relate closely to the proposed area of study, although writing which is connected to some topic within theology or religion would be most appropriate.
This will be assessed for an appropriate intellectual standard, conceptual sophistication, analytical and critical skill, and the ability to sustain a cogent argument.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-archaeological-science:
The DPhil in Archaeological Science provides students with the opportunity to pursue substantial independent research that contributes to the development and application of scientific methods to the study of the past.
The DPhil is a full-time degree, during which you will carry out research and produce a substantial thesis.
You will be required to complete a research project that you should design with your supervisor, who will be an expert in their field of research.
Projects which cross disciplinary boundaries, for example with archaeology or classical archaeology, are welcome.
More details of the school's research areas and themes, as well as some suggested projects and recently completed DPhil projects, are listed on the school's website.
( See Further information and enquiries) .
Although there is no formal course of instruction, you will be trained in relevant laboratory techniques, and you are encouraged to attend lectures and participate in research seminars.
These will include the numerous and wide-ranging weekly seminar series organised within research groups, particularly bioarchaeology, chronology, and materials and technology.
Details of taught course lectures and research seminar series term cards are available on the school's webpages.
Seminars also often provide opportunities for you to present your own work.
Graduate students run their own organisation, Graduate Archaeology at Oxford, which provides further skills seminars, a mentoring programme, social events and a very successful conference series.
This provides many opportunities for you to develop your skills, present your research and develop ideas for the next stage of your career.
Archaeological Science students are based at the Research Laboratory for Archaeology and the History of Art (RLAHA).
You will have the use of workspace in the RLAHA, which has desk space with points for laptop computers.
The RLAHA also has excellent laboratory facilities.
You should discuss with your prospective supervisors whether these are suitable for your proposed research project.
You may also make use of specialised IT (including GIS) and other facilities at the School of Archaeology.
The Radcliffe Science Library, the Bodleian Art, Archaeology and Ancient World Library, and Balfour Libraries are the main services within the University for the material you will require.
The RLAHA library also carries some core texts and journals that can be viewed on site.
For this course, the allocation of graduate supervision is the responsibility of the School of Archaeology and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the School of Archaeology.
While the degree of contact varies depending on individual circumstances, it is expected that supervisors and students should meet to discuss progress at least three times each term.
All students will be initially admitted to the status of Probationer Research Student (PRS).
By the fourth term as a PRS student you will be expected to apply for, and achieve, transfer of status from Probationer Research Student to DPhil status.
A successful transfer of status from PRS to DPhil status will require a formal assessment though the submission of written work and an interview.
Students who are successful at transfer will also be expected to apply for and gain confirmation of DPhil status within seven terms of admission, to show that your work continues to be on track.
At each stage you will also make a short formal presentation of your research at one of the doctoral student symposia organised by the School of Archaeology, which will help you to develop your presentation skills at an early stage of your career.
You will be expected to submit an original thesis  within three or at the most four years from the date of admission.
Students can apply to submit the thesis as a collection of publishable papers.
Successful doctoral theses must, among other things, display evidence of substantial and original research, lucid and scholarly presentation and a sound knowledge of the general field within which the thesis falls.
To be successfully awarded a DPhil you will need to defend your thesis orally ( viva voce ) in front of two appointed examiners.
Graduates from the DPhil in Archaeological Science are successful in obtaining academic posts at universities in the UK, USA and elsewhere, while others engage in postdoctoral research, or go on to positions in industry, commercial archaeology, and heritage management organisations.
Applicants with UK qualifications are usually expected to achieve a minimum of 67% in their masters degrees and >67% for their research dissertation.
However, entrance is very competitive and most successful applicants have a first-class degree (> 70%) or the equivalent.
However most successful applicants have a GPA of 3.7.
Interviews may be held subject to applicant numbers and for certain scholarships.
Oxford’s School of Archaeology is one of the few departments in the world where many diverse aspects of archaeological research are brought together to address critical questions about our past.
The department’s graduate courses are based around the three main centres of archaeological research in Oxford, working together to offer support and facilities to graduates:
One of the great strengths of Oxford archaeology is the opportunity for cross-disciplinary research, making use of the expertise in more than one centre.
Archaeological research at Oxford has a long and distinguished history, with current expertise and interests in the development of human societies from the Palaeolithic to the Early Modern periods, and spanning much of the globe.
As a graduate student at Oxford you will be part of a world-class university, offering unsurpassed opportunities for innovative study and research, and the department’s thriving graduate community of over 150 students drawn from across the world.
The four University Museums, including the Ashmolean and Pitt Rivers, the world-class libraries, and the University’s other archaeological resources are all available to you to stimulate your interests and increase your knowledge.
You will need to meet these additional costs, although you may be able to apply for grants to help with these costs from the School of Archaeology, the Faculty of Classics, and/or your college.
In the past the costs of fieldwork have ranged from between £0 to £10,000, but to a considerable extent the fieldwork element in a project may be tailored to take account of the funding available.
If you choose a laboratory-based project, you may incur additional costs, such as analytical costs, travel expenses for sample collection, etc.
With the approval of your supervisor, you may be eligible to apply for grants to help with these costs from the School of Archaeology, your college, and/or external sources.
Your supervisor will help you with such funding applications.
The following colleges accept students on the DPhil in Archaeological Science:
Blackfriars Brasenose College Campion Hall Hertford College Keble College Kellogg College Linacre College Magdalen College Merton College Regent's Park College Reuben College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Hugh's College St Peter's College Wolfson College Wycliffe Hall
If you apply to this course and are considering applying (or have already applied) to Intelligent Earth (UKRI CDT in AI for the Environment) and/or the DPhil in Interdisciplinary Life and Environmental Science , you can request an application fee waiver so that you only need to pay one application fee.
Please refer to the equivalent section of either course page for further details about requesting an application fee waiver.
You are strongly encouraged to contact a prospective supervisor (academic member of staff) before applying to establish if they are accepting new students, and to get their advice on the research proposal.
Details of academic staff who act as primary DPhil supervisors including their research interests and contact details, can be found on the School of Archaeology's website.
General questions about the course should be directed to the course administrator via the contact details provided on this page.
We strongly recommend you discuss your research proposal and its feasibility with your proposed supervisor in advance of applying.
Academic references are generally preferred.
One professional reference is acceptable, but in cases where more than one such reference is sought you should contact the school to explain why this is necessary.
Your references will support academic achievement, and potential for graduate study and research.
Your research proposal should state the research question, mention key literature, and discuss the research methods.
The proposal must be written in English.
The overall word count does not include any bibliography.
This will be assessed for: the coherence of the proposal; the originality of the project; understanding of the proposed area of study; the ability to present a reasoned case in English; the feasibility of successfully completing the project in the time available for the course; commitment to the subject, beyond the requirements of the degree course; preliminary knowledge of research techniques; capacity for sustained and intense work; and reasoning ability.
To demonstrate that your project is feasible you should provide details of the resources required, which should be discussed with a prospective supervisor in the School of Archaeology.
The proposal should also include information on collaborations, fieldwork, samples, and the analytical equipment required for the project.
It is normal for your ideas to change in some ways as you investigate the evidence and develop your project.
You should nevertheless make the best effort you can to define your research question and methods at this moment.
Written work in English and relating directly to the field of archaeological science is required.
This can be undergraduate essays or excerpts from a longer work such as chapters from a dissertation.
An excerpt should be prefaced by a note which puts it in context.
Please note that this course does not allow the submission of one longer piece of work instead of the two essays.
This will be assessed for ability to assess evidence, derive logical conclusions, and write in a scholarly and lucid manner.
This course is offered by the School of Archaeology
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 278265

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/msc-archaeological-science:
The MSc in Archaeological Science provides a broad introductory education for those with a first degree in archaeology wishing to apply science-based research methods, or for those with a first degree in a science subject wishing to learn specifically about archaeological issues amenable to scientific methods.
The MSc in Archaeological Science is designed to give a broad but detailed grounding in the theory as well as practical experience in the major applications of science in archaeology.
It is intended for archaeologists or scientists who wish to go on to undertake research in archaeological science, or archaeologists who intend to pursue a career in the management of archaeological projects or become policy makers in this area and would like to have a sound understanding of the potential of science to elucidate archaeological problems.
The MSc also acts as preliminary training for doctoral research.
The MSc in Archaeological Science is based on the research strengths of the Research Laboratory for Archaeology.
The MSc consists of three elements taught over two nine-week terms, comprising materials analysis and the study of technological change, molecular bioarchaeology, and principles and practice of scientific dating, plus a five-month research project chosen in consultation with the supervisor.
The research project provides opportunity for specialisation within these areas.
Each course has a co-ordinator who will be responsible for arranging your teaching, while the course director has overall responsibility for your progress.
You will also have a supervisor for your individual research project.
Teaching is through a combination of lectures, classes and laboratory sessions requiring regular written work, and is supplemented by a range of graduate seminars.
The course benefits from the small size of the cohort (usually about eight), allowing many opportunities for student contribution.
Class presentations are also required, providing valuable experience and the opportunity for feedback from your peers.
Graduate students run their own organisation, Graduate Archaeology at Oxford, which provides skills seminars, a mentoring programme, social events and a very successful conference series.
Archaeological Science students are all based at the School of Archaeology premises at 1 South Parks Road.
You will also have the use of workspace in the Research Laboratory for Archaeology and the History of Art (RLAHA) which has desk space with points for laptop computers.
The RLAHA also has excellent laboratory facilities, which are available to students undertaking research for their dissertations.
Within the School of Archaeology, there are computer rooms with specialist GIS and mapping-related software.
Oxford's Bodleian Libraries multiple institutes give students access to world class collections across every field.
The Radcliffe Science Library is the university's main teaching and research library for sciences and will provide for the scientific aspects of student's needs.
The Bodleian Art, Archaeology and Ancient World Library is the central facility for archaeology, classics, and art history, supplemented by the Balfour Library.
The school has close ties with the University museums, including the Ashmolean Museum and the Pitt Rivers Museum, the collections of which contribute to graduate teaching.
You will meet with your supervisor at least once a term.
Every student will have a general supervisor appointed to them prior to the start of term.
You will also be allocated a dissertation supervisor who, during your supervision meetings, will discuss and guide your research.
The course is assessed using a diverse range of methods including written assignments (such as a lab report, blog and review article), written examinations, oral tasks (such as presentations and viva voce examination), and the submission of a dissertation.
Many graduates from the MSc in Archaeological Science continue to further degree programmes in Archaeology, especially at Oxford, or to careers in archaeological project management or more generally in commercial archaeology, industry and heritage management.
For UK qualifications, applicants will usually be expected to achieve a minimum of 67% in their degree however most successful applicants will achieve a first-class degree (> 70%) or the equivalent.
Interviews are not normally held as part of the admissions process but may be required for certain scholarships.
The following colleges accept students on the MSc in Archaeological Science:
Blackfriars Brasenose College Campion Hall Harris Manchester College Hertford College Keble College Kellogg College Linacre College Magdalen College Merton College Regent's Park College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Hugh's College St Peter's College Wolfson College Wycliffe Hall
You should provide a personal statement written in English that explains why you want to study this particular master’s course, focusing on academic rather than personal achievements, interests and aspirations.
These can be undergraduate essays or excerpts from a longer work such as chapters from a dissertation, in which case they should be prefaced by a note which puts them in context.
The written work should relate to archaeology or archaeological science.
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 278255

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-archaeology:
The DPhil in Archaeology provides students with the opportunity to pursue substantial independent research across a wide range of periods and subjects, including British, European, African, and Asian archaeology, and in theoretical aspects of the discipline.
Projects which cross disciplinary boundaries, for example in archaeological science or cultural heritage, are welcome.
Details of the school's research areas and themes, and recently completed DPhil projects are listed on the school's website.
(See Further information and enquiries ).
You are encouraged to contact prospective supervisors, academics in the School of Archaeology, that share similar research interests so that you can discuss project ideas and get advice.
There are no specific taught elements although students are encouraged to attend lectures and participate in research seminars, particularly the skills seminars and some of those in the wide-ranging weekly seminar series organised within the research groups.
Seminars also provide opportunities for students to present their work.
Students are encouraged to undertake fieldwork, which, if appropriate, can often be in relation to one of the school's projects.
The School of Archaeology has premises at South Parks Road and the Institute of Archaeology on Beaumont Street.
The School provides several stations set up for specialist GIS and mapping-related software.
The School of Archaeology has a wide-range of digital facilities, including desktop imaging and manipulation for publication and dissertation/thesis production such as full-colour scanning of slides, negatives, maps and other paper plan originals.
There is a small library in the institute and a searchable catalogue is available on-line.
The Bodleian Art, Archaeology and Ancient World Library, a world-class library for archaeology, is situated between the Institute of Archaeology and the Ashmolean Museum, and is the central facility, providing for most student needs.
Students also use the Balfour Library of anthropology and ethnography, as well as their college libraries.
The School of Archaeology has close ties with the Ashmolean Museum and the Pitt Rivers Museum, the collections of which may contribute to graduate teaching.
The school has lecture rooms, seminar rooms and common rooms at both premises.
You will be expected to submit an original thesis within three or at the most four years from the date of admission.
To be successfully awarded a DPhil you will need to defend your thesis orally (viva voce) in front of two appointed examiners.
Many graduates from the DPhil in Archaeology are successful in obtaining academic posts at universities in the UK, USA and elsewhere, while others engage in postdoctoral research, or go on to positions within museums.
Others find careers elsewhere in education, commercial archaeology, and the heritage industry.
Applicants with UK qualifications are usually expected to achieve a minimum of 67% in their master's degrees and >67% for their research dissertation.
The following colleges accept students on the DPhil in Archaeology:
Blackfriars Brasenose College Campion Hall Harris Manchester College Hertford College Jesus College Keble College Kellogg College Linacre College Magdalen College Merton College The Queen's College Regent's Park College Reuben College St Anne's College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Hugh's College St John's College St Peter's College Somerville College University College Wolfson College Worcester College Wycliffe Hall
Details of academic staff who act as primary DPhil supervisors including their research interests and contact details, can be found on the school's website.
The proposal should also include information on collaborations, fieldwork, samples, and any equipment required for the project.
Written work in English and relating directly to the field of archaeology is required.
† A part-time DPhil is also offered by the University *Three-year average (applications for entry in 2022-23 to 2024-25)

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-archaeology-part-time:
The part-time DPhil course draws on knowledge and skills acquired over many years of providing specialist classes in archaeology and profits from close links with the many different archaeologists elsewhere in the University.
The course caters for students specialising mainly in landscape and professional archaeology topics, largely concentrated on Britain and Europe.
Occasionally, other topics are accepted but admission in these cases is strictly dependent on the availability of appropriate supervision elsewhere in the university.
Please note that candidates, even those with an academically strong background, may not be admitted if appropriate supervision is not available for your proposed research topic.
The DPhil programme is overseen by the University’s Continuing Education Board, and admission is through the Department for Continuing Education.
The part-time DPhil regulations normally require a minimum of six years’ part-time study (equivalent to three years full-time).
If you are a research student you may be required to undertake appropriate research training provided within the department.
In addition, you will be strongly encouraged to participate in seminars and informal meetings with staff and other researchers.
The major commitment of time will be to individual study and research, involving wide and intense reading, data collection and analysis, and writing.
As a part-time student you will be required to attend supervision, training, seminars, milestone assessments (eg transfer of status) and other obligations in Oxford for a minimum of 30 days each year.
There will be flexibility in the dates and pattern of attendance, which will be determined by mutual agreement with your supervisor.
Any dates for fieldwork should be discussed with your supervisor.
When not in physical attendance at Oxford, you will be expected to continue your research to an agreed time-plan.
Your supervision will continue as normal, via online and remote means.
You should take account of any time differences when planning online meetings with your supervisor or graduate training.
You are encouraged to participate as fully as possible in the wider research environment for archaeology at Oxford, including attending seminars, discussion groups and lectures advertised by the School of Archaeology, Oxford University Archaeological Society and Graduate Archaeology Oxford and elsewhere in the University.
The Department for Continuing Education has its own stock of fieldwork equipment and access to specialist facilities elsewhere in the University may be arranged where these are required.
You will be encouraged, where appropriate, to participate more widely in archaeological excavation and/or laboratory analysis; the department does not normally offer its own resources/facilities for supporting these as part of the course, though they may be available elsewhere in the University.
The course is part-time.
The allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of the Department for Continuing Education and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
A supervisor may be found outside the Department for Continuing Education.
Supervision is arranged to suit the DPhil topic.
The department’s full-time academic archaeologists, Professor David Griffiths (Programme Director for Archaeology) and Dr Alison MacDonald (Departmental Lecturer in Archaeology), supervise the programme, along with research associates of the department and colleagues from the School of Archaeology, Faculty of Classics and elsewhere within the University.
Students on the DPhil are required to attend a minimum of 30 days of university-based work each year for the duration of their studies, usually that involves meeting their supervisor once a term.
You will be admitted initially as a Probationary Research Student (PRS), in line with University regulations on doctorates.
During the probationary period, you will develop and begin work on the thesis topic.
You will develop research skills through a range of training and skills development primarily offered via the Department for Continuing Education Graduate School, as well as across the University.
Students must apply for a Transfer of Status from PRS to DPhil status between the sixth and the eighth academic term after admission, each academic year at Oxford having three terms.
This involves the submission of a piece of written work that is examined by two assessors, neither of whom will be your supervisors.
This process is to ensure that your work is of potential DPhil quality and that the methodology of the research is appropriate and feasible.
Upon successful completion of the Transfer of Status, you would usually undertake a period of primary fieldwork/data collection over one to two years.
You will also be required to apply for a Confirmation of Status as DPhil sometime between the twelfth and eighteenth term after admission.
This will also involve the submission of a piece of written work that is assessed by two assessors, neither of whom are your supervisors.
The Confirmation of Status assessment is different to the Transfer of Status assessment as the assessors will be focusing on how the research is progressing, the quality of the draft chapters/papers, and on the plan for completion.
The assessors will be looking to ensure that you are making the appropriate amount of progress in the development of your thesis, so that thesis submission will be achieved within the time limit.
You will be expected to submit a substantive academic thesis of around 80,000 words after eighteen or, at most, twenty-four terms from the date of admission.
To be successfully awarded a DPhil in Archaeology you will need to defend your thesis orally (viva voce) in front of two appointed examiners.
Graduates have gone on to be employed in the commercial archaeological and heritage sector, university post-doctoral research, museum work, consultancy, and activity with voluntary heritage groups.
Graduates have taken on senior roles in academic research and professional practice.
Several have become research associates on externally funded University of Oxford research projects, and have combined this with developing teaching careers in higher education.
One served as Chair of the Institute for Archaeologists, the UK’s leading professional body.
Others have developed careers in heritage and archaeological practice, working for organisations such as Oxford Archaeology.
Please note that entrance is very competitive and most successful applicants have a distinction, a first-class degree and/or the equivalent.
Successful applicants will have a proven track record in archaeological study.
Substantial professional experience may be considered.
The department does not offer places on this course without conducting an interview.
Candidates will normally be expected to attend interview in Oxford in person; if a candidate is unable to attend on the date initially proposed, they will be offered an alternative interview date.
Interviews may be held via Microsoft Teams, at the discretion of the Programme Director, when travelling to Oxford is difficult or impossible for a candidate within the interview period.
You will need to meet these additional costs, although you may be able to apply for small grants from your college to help you cover some of these expenses.
Blackfriars Campion Hall Harris Manchester College Jesus College Kellogg College Linacre College Regent's Park College St Catherine's College Wycliffe Hall
If you wish to discuss your research proposal please contact the Programme Director, Professor David Griffiths .
However, it is not necessary to contact a potential supervisor or other member of academic staff before you apply.
Academic references are required.
These should comment on your intellectual ability, academic achievement, motivation, ability to work in a group.
You should submit a detailed outline of your proposed research, written in English, covering areas such as the background to the research, methodology, expected results and the contribution to the field of learning.
Professional or other reports/publications are only acceptable for this purpose if you are the sole author.
The topic(s) of your submitted work should be relevant to the subject area of the course.
This will be assessed for comprehensive understanding of the subject area; understanding of problems in the area; ability to construct and defend an argument; powers of analysis; and powers of expression.
† A full-time DPhil is also offered by the University *Two-year average (applications for entry in 2023-24 and 2024-25)
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 286948

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/msc-archaeology:
The MSc in Archaeology provides an opportunity for students to build on their knowledge from undergraduate studies and to specialise in a particular area of archaeology, while also offering an excellent foundation for those wishing to continue towards research at doctoral level.
It also offers transferable skills which are beneficial to a range of professional roles.
During this 11-month taught master's degree you will specialise in a particular area of archaeology, and will follow a subject stream, which will comprise four modules and a dissertation.
The MSc in Archaeology allows subject specialisation, but also flexibility, by combining core modules with an option module, and topics chosen for your dissertation and summative pre-set essays.
If you wish to specialise in the theory and practical applications of science in archaeology, please consider applying to the MSc in Archaeological Science rather than the MSc in Archaeology.
You will choose from one of the following subject streams:
This core module, which all students take in the first term, is designed to prepare you with necessary archaeological knowledge, research and practical skills to support your other modules and dissertation.
The fourth module is your option module, taught in the second term.
This is chosen from all available modules in any stream, or an option from the MSt in Classical Archaeology.
In some circumstances a subject taught in the MSc in Archaeological Science may be taken as your option module and is taught over two terms.
Archaeology of Colonialism Archaeology of the Contemporary World Cognitive Archaeology
All students will complete a dissertation of 15,000 words on an approved topic relevant to your stream subject, chosen in consultation with a supervisor.
Most of the dissertation research and writing takes place in the third term and into the summer.
The dissertation allows you to develop a larger piece of research in which you can more fully explore a topic.
It will allow you to develop your research skills and undertake self-directed and independent research that is a necessary basis for future doctoral research, and highly desirable in non-academic employment.
Teaching of stream modules is mainly through a combination of lectures and tutorials which are normally taught in small- groups.
Other teaching methods may also include seminars, museum-based classes, laboratory work or other practicals, depending on your stream and module choices.
You will usually prepare formative assignments on a weekly or fortnightly basis for your modules.
The core Archaeological Principles: Data and Theory module is taught by lectures and seminars and will include group work; the assignments given in this module will form the basis of an assessed portfolio.
The teaching methods provide you with the opportunity to debate and discuss essays and topics on a regular basis with other students and teachers.
Your assignments will also allow you to develop your writing and presentation skills.
The seminars, museum-based classes, laboratory work and practicals provide an arena for you to engage with and develop techniques of analysis and evaluation.
You will have an academic advisor in your subject stream who will advise on module choices and monitor overall progress.
The teaching is supplemented by a wide range of lecture courses, seminar series, and the Graduate Archaeology at Oxford skills seminar series available in the School of Archaeology.
The degree is a very intensive course, and you will be expected to treat the University vacations as integral parts of your academic work time.
Each member of the academic staff in archaeology normally offers at least one module in his or her areas of specialism over the year, but some modules or streams listed may not be available every year.
The School of Archaeology provides the following resources for students:
In addition, the Bodleian Art, Archaeology and Ancient World Library, a world-class library for archaeology, is situated between the Institute of Archaeology and the Ashmolean Museum, and is the central facility, providing for most student needs.
Students also use the Balfour Library of anthropology and ethnography.
They will usually be one of the teachers in your subject stream.
The Archaeological Principles: Data and Theory core module is assessed by a portfolio of work.
Your first subject stream module will be assessed by take-home essays submitted in the second term.
Your second subject stream module and your chosen option module will be assessed by extended essays submitted in the third term.
A stream-specific dissertation of a maximum of 15,000 words will be submitted in late August.
It is anticipated that graduates from the MSc in Archaeology will continue to further degree programmes in Archaeology either at Oxford or at leading universities elsewhere.
Others may find careers in education, museums, commercial archaeology and the heritage industry.
For UK qualifications, applicants will usually be expected to achieve a minimum of 67% in their degree however most successful applicants will achieve a first-class degree (>70%) or the equivalent.
The following colleges accept students on the MSc in Archaeology:
Blackfriars Brasenose College Campion Hall Harris Manchester College Hertford College Jesus College Keble College Kellogg College Linacre College Magdalen College Merton College Regent's Park College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Hugh's College St John's College St Peter's College University College Wolfson College Wycliffe Hall
You should provide a personal statement written in English that explains why you want to study this particular master’s course and your chosen subject stream.
The statement should focus on academic rather than personal achievements, interests and aspirations, and should state what you believe the degree will lead to after graduation.
You must state which subject stream you wish to follow.
If you do not it may delay the assessment of your application.
The personal statement will be assessed for:
If you have an idea for your dissertation topic, please include the research question and a brief outline of the proposed sources and method at this moment.
It will be normal for your ideas subsequently to change in some ways as you investigate the evidence and develop your topic.
You should nevertheless make the best effort you can to demonstrate your familiarity and understanding of the subject.
It is not necessary that the written works relate directly to archaeology, as there are many things that the assessors look for in the written work which are not specific to the subject area, such as the qualities listed below.
The written work will be assessed for:
*Three-year average (applications for entry in 2022-23 and 2024-25)

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-architectural-history:
The course draws on considerable experience in providing advanced tuition in architectural history.
It benefits from the close links within the department between the disciplines of architectural history, art history, English local history and landscape archaeology.
The course has links with other parts of the University, particularly the Faculty of History, the Department of History of Art, and Kellogg College, amongst the fellows of which is the largest concentration of architectural historians associated with the University.
Supervision is possible in most areas of British architectural history from the middle ages to the present, and some European and American topics.
In terms of Great Britain, academic staff currently have particular research interests in ecclesiastical buildings; country houses and their landscapes; the British home since 1700; railway stations; the history of building conservation; Regency architecture; architecture of the period 1880-1940; Gothic Revival; urban and institutional architecture, especially of London and Oxford, from 1660 to the present.
The course is overseen by the Continuing Education Board of the University.
Admission is through the Department for Continuing Education.
The part-time DPhil regulations require a period of five to eight years’ part-time study.
You may be required to undertake appropriate research training provided within the department.
Doctoral training is provided through the department’s Graduate School, and other agreed learning requirements (eg foreign languages) can draw on the resources of both the department and the wider University.
You will be strongly encouraged to participate in seminars and informal meetings with staff and other researchers both within the department and elsewhere in the University.
The major commitment of time will be to individual study and research, involving wide and intense reading, data collection (which may include fieldwork) and analysis, and writing.
You will be required to attend supervision meetings and other obligations in Oxford.
You will have the opportunity to tailor your part-time study and skills training in liaison with your supervisor and agree your pattern of attendance.
The Rewley House Continuing Education Library, one of the Bodleian Libraries, is situated in Rewley House.
The Department aims to support the wide variety of subjects covered by departmental courses at many academic levels.
PCs in the library give access to the internet and the full range of electronic resources subscribed to by the University of Oxford, and Wi-Fi is also available.
For this course, the allocation of graduate supervision is the responsibility of the Department for Continuing Education and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Supervision on the DPhil programme is provided by specialist tutors from the department and elsewhere in Oxford.
It is provided on an individual basis, tailored to the research needs of students and to their subjects.
Most students have the opportunity to meet with their supervisor once a term.
This will also involve the submission of a piece of written work that is assessed by two assessors, neither of whom will be your supervisors.
You will be expected to submit a substantive academic thesis of around 100,000 words after six or, at most, eight years from the date of admission.
To be successfully awarded a DPhil in Architectural History you will need to defend your thesis orally (viva voce) in front of two appointed examiners.
This thesis should be driven by a research question suitable for original historical enquiry; should make considered and effective use of appropriate sources (which should be consulted in the original so far as appropriate and practical); must have a coherent approach or method – one that is thought out and intellectually sustainable; should demonstrate a good general knowledge of the particular field of learning within which the thesis falls; show that the candidate has made a significant and substantial contribution in their particular field of learning; and should be presented in a lucid and scholarly manner.
The number of students completing the DPhil is too small to provide information on destinations.
Applicants who have a Level 4 vocational qualification rather than an undergraduate degree may be considered.
In exceptional circumstances, applicants who have substantial experience in a relevant profession (eg one related to building analysis and recording or to historic conservation) may also be considered.
Applicants who fully meet the criteria, and for whom the programme directors determine suitable supervision can be arranged, may be invited for interview.
If the number of potentially suitable candidates significantly exceeds the number of places available, preference will be given to those whose research proposals best match the research interests of such supervisors as are available.
Applicants would not normally be admitted to the programme without attending an interview in person, with at least two academic interviewers, one of whom will normally be a director of the programme.
The interview will seek to resolve any issues arising from the application, to explore relevant educational and other experience, and to create a further understanding of the research proposal.
Interviewers will also seek to ensure that applicants have a full understanding of the commitment a part-time DPhil requires.
Interviews may be held via Microsoft Teams, at the discretion of the Programme Director, when travelling to Oxford is difficult or impossible for the candidate within the interview period.
The following colleges accept students on the DPhil in Architectural History:
Blackfriars Campion Hall Kellogg College Linacre College St Catherine's College Wycliffe Hall
You may find it useful to make contact with an academic member of staff before you apply if you have any questions about your application.
General queries should be directed to the course administrator via the contact details provided on this page.
However, where academic references cannot be provided, professional references will be accepted in lieu of academic references.
Your references will support appropriate indicators of academic ability and/or professional experience.
Referees should comment upon the applicant’s intellectual ability, academic aptitude and motivation, as well as on previous contributions to the field where possible.
Applicants should provide a personal statement and research proposal, both written in English, as a single combined document.
Your personal statement should address your reasons for wishing to study at Oxford and to engage in this particular programme.
Your research proposal should define the topic of research, initial research questions, how the questions relate to existing work on the subject, and the proposed sources and methods of research.
This is not intended to be comprehensive, but to provide the basis for seeking a supervisor and for further discussion.
The overall word count does not need to include any bibliography.
Written work in English, either from previous education or more recent, are required.
The topic(s) of the work should ideally be related to architectural history or history, though other subjects are acceptable.
Extracts from longer pieces are acceptable, provided they are self-contained and prefaced by a note explaining their context (eg chapter or section of a dissertation).
This will be assessed for your command of written English, reasoning ability and ability to construct a logical argument.
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 286938

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/pgcert-architectural-history:
This one year part-time course consists of three taught units and a dissertation.
It covers English architectural history from the Anglo-Saxon period to the present day.
The course is designed to offer a progression from supported learning, with regular essays and feedback in the Historical Studies units, to more independent work in the Site Evaluation Survey Unit and, particularly, the dissertation, and can therefore act as a preparation for progression to a higher academic level, including doctoral work.
The PGCert is taught in association with the Historic Conservation course at Oxford Brookes University.
It is recommended that students plan to spend at least 15 hours per week in private study in addition to time spent in classes or tutorials.
This may require careful scheduling at times to fit in with other commitments.
Unit 1 concentrates on the medieval period.
It provides an introduction to the evolution of the landscape and the major elements of architectural history in England up to the sixteenth century.
The aim of the unit is to enable you to acquire a sound understanding of the basic development of medieval buildings and their context.
Teaching is by means of lectures, held in Rewley House, and field trips.
You will also need to ensure you have sufficient time for directed reading and private study.
Tutorials are available by request.
The unit will continue the themes introduced in Historical Studies 1 and will analyse the major architectural developments from the sixteenth century to the present century.
The unit will seek to build on the Historical Studies 1 to enable you to acquire a sound understanding of the development of English architectural history and its broader context down to the present century in a manner which is relevant to historic conservation.
Teaching is by means of lectures at Rewley House.
This unit is based at Oxford Brookes University in Headington.
This is a skill-based unit designed to develop expertise in understanding the special architectural and historical characteristics of a particular site, building or group of buildings and to develop techniques for its representation through research, measurement, and drawn and photographic recording.
This unit will enable you to develop the skills necessary to plan, prepare and execute a programme for the recording of structures and sites, and will introduce the main sources of archive material for investigations into historic buildings, sites and monuments.
It provides an introduction to the making of a competent analytical record of a site through text, photographic and measured surveys, and drawn representation.
Teaching is by means of lectures, field trips and practical sessions, which need to be supplemented by private study.
You will also have to conduct individual fieldwork.
This unit is taught in Michaelmas term, with a refresher session in March and submission in early May, at Oxford Brookes University in Headington, Oxford.
The detailed timetable for this unit will be circulated before the start of Michaelmas term.
The syllabus will cover drawing and survey techniques, documentary research, photographic recording and practical building analysis.
An 8,000-word dissertation on a subject relevant to architectural history, chosen in consultation with the course tutor and due for submission by the end of August.
Dissertations are supervised within the Department for Continuing Education.
This unit provides an opportunity for an extended exploration of a single topic based on primary and secondary research to demonstrate the skills and knowledge gained in the other elements of the course.
You will be required to attend teaching in Oxford as well as fieldwork in Oxfordshire.
Students are able to take advantage of four and a quarter hours maximum of one-to-one tutorial supervision.
In addition to the dissertation which is written during Unit Four, assessment takes place throughout the course.
Unit One is assessed by three essays.
Assessment of Unit Two consists of two essays, and Unit three is assessed via a workbook record of a selected building, to be submitted by mid-May.
Upon successful completion of this course, some students have gone on to further graduate study at a master's or doctoral level at Oxford and elsewhere; others find employment with conservation and heritage organisations.
Applications are also considered from those who do not have previous higher education.
Vocational qualifications equivalent to NVQ level 4 are acceptable substitutes, as is at least three years’ experience in a conservation-related profession.
Interviews are normally held in April and early May, for applications received in March; for later applications, interviews are held as soon as possible.
Applicants who appear, from the material they submit, to be suitable for the course will be invited to interview.
Interviews will normally be conducted in person by the Course Director and another academic from the Department for Continuing Education.
The interview will seek to resolve any questions arising from the application, to explore prior educational or other experience, prior interest in the subject, and motivation, and to assess the applicants’ ability to communicate orally.
Interviewers will also seek to ensure that applicants have a full understanding of the workload and implications of embarking on the course.
Please note that this course requires that you attend in Oxford for teaching, and also participate in field visits in Oxfordshire,and you may incur additional travel and accommodation expenses for these and for some field-based essay work.
The practical unit requires the purchase of some drawing and basic measuring equipment (approximately £150).
The practical unit and the dissertation may require additional travel, accommodation or research expenses, depending on the choice of topic/place being studied.
Matriculation confers membership of the University on students.
Students who enrol on this course will not be matriculated and will not become a member of an Oxford college.
Although not formally members of the University, non-matriculated students are expected to observe the same rules and regulations as matriculated students.
Further information about matriculation is available on the Oxford Students website.
Prior to applying, you are encouraged to communicate with academics working in your area of interest to discuss potential research topics and the possibility of being offered supervision.
Details of academic staff, including their research interests and contact details, can be found on the departmental website.
General enquiries should be made to the department's graduate studies administrator via the contact details provided on this page.
Your references will support your academic ability and suitability for this course.
Your statement should be written in English and explain your motivation for applying for the course at Oxford, your relevant experience and education, and any specific areas that interest you.
This will be assessed for your reasons for applying, relevant experience, evidence of commitment to the subject and of motivation.
You should nevertheless make the best effort you can to demonstrate the extent of your motivation, suitability and academic aptitude at this moment.
A piece of written work in English, either from previous education or more recent, is required.
The subject should ideally be related to architectural history or history, though written work on other subjects is acceptable.
This will be assessed for your command of written English and ability to construct a logical argument.
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 280783

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-area-studies-africa:
The DPhil in Area Studies offers the opportunity to undertake a doctoral project dedicated to the study of a specific country or region, or else to compare more than one region, using social science approaches whilst also generating theories and propositions that are of value across regions.
Looking beyond the big picture of globalisation and development, researchers at the Oxford School of Global and Area Studies (OSGA) examine the interplay between the local, the national, the regional, and the global to offer a better understanding of the contemporary world.
Oxford’s Area Studies department is consistently ranked amongst the top echelon and has been recently ranked by QS University Rankings as first in the world.
As a DPhil student, you will have access to outstanding research projects, seminar series, workshops and conferences and will have the chance to develop your work alongside academic staff who are experts in their fields.
You will apply for admission to one of seven streams, which each have a distinct country or region of focus.
As a student of the Africa stream of this course, your research will usually be undertaken in collaboration with the school’s African Studies Centre .
Research at the centre covers topics as diverse as politics, globalization, history, literature and society.
Recent doctoral research projects undertaken by students undertaking the Africa stream include:
During the first year of the course you will focus on developing your research questions, conceptual framework and methodological approaches for your thesis.
You will also participate in the first-year DPhil seminar series and you will have the opportunity to attend other courses offered by the school as identified in your Training Needs Analysis.
Your Training Needs Analysis will be discussed with your supervisor and reviewed on a regular basis.
In your second year you will continue to implement your research plan through theoretical engagement and/or fieldwork, data collection and analysis.
If you intend to undertake fieldwork as part of your research, you will be expected to attend a fieldwork safety course available through the Social Sciences Division.
Your third year requires you to participate in at least one conference, in the UK or internationally, presenting your work to a non- specialist audience, and to submit materials for Confirmation of Status as a doctoral researcher, as well as working towards the completion of your thesis.
The course aims to empower you to achieve the following learning outcomes:
The Bodleian Social Science Library (SSL) is the main library for Area Studies.
The SSL is housed on the ground floor of the Manor Road Building, and is open seven days a week during term-time.
The library offers a variety of study spaces including graduate study rooms, individual study carrels, and group discussion rooms..
The Social Sciences Library is complemented by the resources of the Bodleian library.
There is a room at the Oxford School of Global and Area Studies which is available to students for study purposes.
For this course, the allocation of graduate supervision is the responsibility of the Oxford School of Global and Area Studies and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Oxford School of Global and Area Studies.
You will be assigned one or two supervisors, depending on your thesis subject.
These supervisors will advise and guide you as you progress through the different stages of your research.
Most students have the opportunity to meet with their supervisor on average two to three times per term.
Ongoing support will be provided by your supervisor(s) during your studies and feedback will be received from peers and faculty members at the first-year DPhil seminars.
Written feedback will be provided as part of the Transfer and Confirmation of Status procedures and after the final viva voce.
Candidates for the DPhil are normally admitted with Probationer Research Student (PRS) status.
As a PRS, you will develop your research proposal and skills, and produce a draft section or sections of your thesis, in order to apply for the Transfer of Status that will end your probationary period as a research student and give you full DPhil status.
Applications for Transfer of Status must be submitted within a maximum of four terms from admissions as a PRS (8 terms for part-time students).
Once you have been admitted to full DPhil status, you will also be expected to apply for and gain confirmation of DPhil status, normally within nine terms of admission (18 terms for part-time students), to show that your work continues to be on track.
Students will be expected to submit their thesis three to four years after the date of admission (6-8 years for part-time students).
After submitting your finished thesis, you will be required to attend a viva voce (viva for short).
The viva will be held by two examiners, one internal to the University and one external.
The purpose of this is to enable the examiners to assure themselves that the thesis is your own work, to provide you with an opportunity to defend your thesis and to offer any necessary clarifications.
A final copy of the thesis, incorporating any corrections, will be submitted after the viva.
This course is completing its fifth year and seeing its first graduates now, therefore data on alumni destinations is yet to be captured.
However, area studies graduates have found employment in many and diverse fields including business, finance, law, civil service, journalism, government and industry.
Many Oxford School of Global and Area Studies graduates have also undertaken further research into subjects linked with area studies and have pursued successful careers in the academic world and education.
Where a distinction has not been achieved for the master's degree, an overall grade of 67% or above in the course examinations and a distinction in the thesis element may be considered.
Fee status Annual Course fees Home £10,660 Overseas £15,545
You should make contact with potential supervisors before you apply to discuss your research interests.
Initial general and admissions enquiries can be made via the contact details provided on this page.
References should generally be academic, though one of your required three references may be professional or other non-academic provided that it covers work experience or skills relevant to the course.
Your references will support intellectual ability, academic achievement, academic writing ability and career motivation.
Your statement of purpose/personal statement and research proposal should be submitted as a single, combined document with clear subheadings.
Please ensure that the word counts for each section are clearly visible in the document.
Your personal statement should explain your motivation for applying for the course at Oxford, your relevant experience and education, and the specific areas that interest you and/or you intend to specialise in.
Your personal statement should be written in English and should be a maximum of 1,000 words.
Your research proposal should make clear the research topic, detail the questions the research would seek to address, and indicate the methods and data sources that would likely be drawn upon to do this.
Your research proposal should be written in English and should be a maximum of 2,500 words.
The word count should include any footnotes or appendices but may exclude your bibliography of cited works.
Your personal statement and research proposal will be assessed for:
Extracts from longer pieces may be submitted but should be prefaced by a note putting them in context.
The work does not necessarily need to relate closely to the proposed area of study.
This will be assessed for comprehensive understanding of the subject area; understanding of problems in the area; ability to construct and defend an argument; powers of analysis; powers of expression; familiarity with the literature on the subject; and evidence of a keen interest and understanding of a specific region(s).
Apply - Full Time Apply - Part Time Continue application
*Combined figure for all DPhil Area Studies courses † Three-year average (applications for entry in 2022-23 to 2024-25) ^New course for entry in 2025-26
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 284995

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-area-studies-china:
This page describes the China stream of the course.
As a student of the China stream of this course, your research will usually be undertaken in collaboration with the school’s Contemporary China Studies Programme (CCSP) .
Research by the programme covers topics as diverse as Politics, International Relations, Sociology, Economics, History, and Culture.
Recent doctoral research projects undertaken by students undertaking the China stream include:
The library offers a variety of study spaces including graduate study rooms, individual study carrels, and group discussion rooms.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-area-studies-japan:
This page describes the Japan stream of the course.
As a student of the Japan stream of this course, your research will usually be undertaken in collaboration with the school’s Nissan Institute of Japanese Studies .
Research at the institute covers topics as diverse as history, sociology, politics and language.
Recent doctoral projects undertaken by students undertaking the Japan stream include research into the Japanese Labour Market.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-area-studies-latin-america:
This page describes the Latin America stream of the course.
As a student of the Latin America stream of this course, your research will usually be undertaken in collaboration with the school’s Latin American Centre (LAC).
Research at the centre covers topics as diverse as Economics, Politics, Religion, Sociology, and International Relations.
Recent doctoral research projects undertaken by students undertaking the Latin America stream include:

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-area-studies-middle-east:
This page describes the Middle East stream of the course.
As a student of the Middle East stream of this course, your research will usually be undertaken in collaboration with the school’s Middle East Studies Programme.
Research by the programme covers topics as diverse as History, Politics, Literature, and Social Anthropology.
Recent doctoral research projects undertaken by students undertaking the Middle East stream include:

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-area-studies-russian-and-east-europe:
This page describes the Russia and Eastern Europe stream of the course.
As a student of the Russia and Eastern Europe stream of this course, your research will usually be undertaken in collaboration with the school’s Russian and East European Studies unit (REES) .
Research at the unit covers topics as diverse as Culture, Politics, Political Economy, and Religion.
Recent doctoral research projects undertaken by students undertaking the Russia and Eastern Europe stream include:

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-area-studies-south-asia:
This page describes the South Asia stream of the course.
As a student of the South Asia stream of this course, your research will usually be undertaken in collaboration with the school’s Contemporary South Asian Studies Programme (CSASP) .
Research by the programme covers topics as diverse as International Relations, Gender and Society, History, Anthropology, and Economics.
Recent doctoral research projects undertaken by students undertaking the South Asia stream include:
Applications for Transfer of Status must be submitted within a maximum of four terms (8 terms for part-time students) from admissions as a PRS.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/TD_JM9P1:
Saïd Business School at the University of Oxford blends the best of the new and the old.
It is a vibrant and innovative business school, yet deeply embedded in an 800-year-old world-class university.
Saïd Business School creates programmes and ideas that have global impact.
It educates people for successful business careers and, as a community, seeks to tackle world-scale problems.
The school delivers cutting-edge programmes and ground-breaking research that transform individuals, organisations, business practice, and society.
It seeks to be a world-class business school community, embedded in a world-class university, tackling world-class problems.
">Video of Saïd Business School
The Saïd Business School manages its own application process and uses a separate application system for all courses, with the exception of MSc in Law and Finance .
Contact details for all enquires can be found on the relevant course page, which can be accessed by selecting a course title below.
This course is offered by Saïd Business School and uses the school's own application system.
Therefore, all information about this course is hosted directly on the school's own website.
Contact details for all enquiries can also be found on the school's course page.
Open the PGDip in Artificial Intelligence for Business course page on the Saïd Business School website.
Open the Executive MBA course page on the Saïd Business School website.
Open the DPhil in Finance course page on the Saïd Business School website.
Open the MSc in Financial Economics course page on the Saïd Business School website.
Open the PGDip in Financial Strategy course page on the Saïd Business School website.
Open the PGDip in Global Business course page on the Saïd Business School website.
Open the MSc in Global Healthcare Leadership course page on the Saïd Business School website.
This course is offered jointly by the Faculty of Law and the Saïd Business School, and uses the standard graduate application form.
Open the MSc in Law and Finance course page
Open the MSc in Major Programme Management course page on the Saïd Business School website.
Open the DPhil in Management course page on the Saïd Business School website.
Open the MBA course page on the Saïd Business School website.
Open the PGDip in Organisational Leadership course page on the Saïd Business School website.
The Oxford 1+1 MBA is a unique, two-year graduate experience that combines the depth of a specialised, one-year master’s degree with the breadth of a top-ranking, one-year MBA.
The MBA component of this programme is offered by Saïd Business School and uses the school's application system.
Therefore, all information about the programme is hosted directly on the school's own website.
Open the Oxford 1+1 MBA page on the Saïd Business School website.
Open the PGDip in Strategy and Innovation course page on the Saïd Business School website.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-asian-middle-eastern-studies:
The DPhil in Asian and Middle Eastern Studies is the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies' main research degree.
Supervision can be offered in the full-range of areas in which the faculty has expertise, namely:
All topics fall under the general degree title of DPhil in Asian and Middle Eastern Studies.
Through independent research, and with the guidance of your supervisor, you will be required to complete a thesis.
The DPhil normally takes between three and four years to complete.
You will have the opportunity to attend faculty seminars, lectures and colloquia, as well as a variety of skills training sessions offered by the faculty, as appropriate to different stages of the graduate career.
All research students are offered an opportunity to attend the tutorial teaching day at the faculty in Hilary term.
Those completing the training are then placed on the Graduate Teaching Register and may provide teaching for undergraduates if the opportunity arises.
During your studies you will have access to the Nizami Ganjavi Library based in the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies.
In addition to this, there are a number of other specialist library collections in Oxford that focus on Asian and Middle Eastern studies, such as:
Adjacent to the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies is the Ashmolean Museum, which houses superb collections.
The Bodleian Art, Archaeology and Ancient World Library includes the principal library for Egyptology and ancient Near Eastern Studies.
You will also have access to the University's centrally provided electronic resources, the department's IT Officer and other bibliographic, archive or material sources as appropriate to the research topic.
There is a computing room for the use of graduate students in the Faculty, as well as a common room where tea and coffee are available and staff and students can meet.
The provision of other resources specific to your project will be agreed with your supervisor as a part of the planning stages of the agreed project.
The allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies.
In such circumstances, a second internal supervisor may be appointed to provide guidance on policy and procedures of the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies.
You will be assigned a supervisor(s) who has overall responsibility for the direction of your work on behalf of the faculty.
Typically, most students have meetings with their supervisor at least twice a term during their period of study, this might be more frequent during the earlier stages of the course.
You will begin your programme as a Probationary Research Student (PRS), applying to transfer to full DPhil status by the start of your second year.
If successful, a further assessment, to confirm DPhil status, will take place during the third year.
The transfer of status and confirmation of status assessments are processes handled by academics other than the supervisor, and are an opportunity to receive substantive feedback on your work by experts other than your supervisor(s).
The final thesis of 80,000 to 100,000 words will be assessed through a viva voce examination, typically with one internal and one external examiner.
Graduates in Asian and Middle Eastern studies have found employment in many diverse fields including business, the civil service, finance, law, government, industry, and journalism and the media.
Many graduates have also undertaken further research into subjects linked with Asian and Middle Eastern studies and have pursued successful careers in the academic world, education, libraries, literature and museums.
For applicants with a degree from the USA, the minimum overall GPA that is normally required to meet the undergraduate-level requirement is 3.6 out of 4.0.
As part of the admissions process, you may be invited to an online interview with your prospective supervisor and one other colleague.
Interviews will be held as soon as possible after the deadline for applications.
Among subjects in the Humanities, Asian and Middle Eastern studies is unique in offering advanced study of cultures and civilisations in Asia, the Middle East and North Africa.
The courses offered by the faculty present both the major traditions of the regions studied and, in most cases, their modern developments.
All courses include language, literature, history and culture, and there are a wide range of options in such fields as art and architecture, archaeology, history, literature, philosophy, religion and modern social studies.
The following are the principal areas of study:
Asian and Middle Eastern Studies has a long history in Oxford: the Laudian Chair of Arabic, for instance, was established in 1636.
The Bodleian and other libraries have acquired magnificent collections.
The Nizami Ganjavi Centre, China Centre, Bodleian Japanese and Indian Institute libraries offer loan collections in their respective fields.
The Bodleian Art, Archaeology and Ancient World Library includes the principal library for Islamic Art, Egyptology and Ancient Near Eastern studies.
The following colleges accept students on the DPhil in Asian and Middle Eastern Studies:
Balliol College Blackfriars Brasenose College Campion Hall Christ Church Harris Manchester College Hertford College Linacre College Magdalen College Mansfield College New College Pembroke College The Queen's College Regent's Park College St Anne's College St Antony's College St Cross College St John's College University College Wadham College Wolfson College Wycliffe Hall
Any prospective supervisor should be a member of the teaching staff at the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies.
Whilst it is appreciated that obtaining academic references will be difficult for some applicants, academic references are requested because it is necessary to establish whether you are intellectually prepared for a course.
It is unlikely that this can be established from a professional or personal reference, so you should only use such references if there is absolutely no alternative.
Your references will support intellectual ability, academic achievement, motivation, and fitness for chosen course of study.
Academic essays or other writing samples from your most recent qualifications, written in English, are required.
It is helpful if written work relates closely to the proposed area of study, though it is not compulsory, as there are many things that the assessors look for in the written work which are not specific to the subject area, such as ability to construct and defend an argument and presentation of material in the appropriate scholarly form.
This course was previously known as the DPhil in Oriental Studies
This course is offered by the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 288203

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/mst-asian-middle-eastern-studies:
The MSt in Asian and Middle Eastern Studies at Oxford aims to provide tailor-made courses for training graduate students at the beginning of their research in different areas of Asian and Middle Eastern studies.
The course is aimed at students who need some additional training before applying for doctoral studies.
Only specified teaching staff in Asian and Middle Eastern Studies accept students for this degree (a list of these staff is available on the faculty’s course webpage).
Once you and your prospective supervisor have agreed on your course of study, it is not normally possible to make any changes.
The MSt in Asian and Middle Eastern Studies is designed for students who hold a first degree in the same field as that of their proposed research, or one closely related.
As an example, most students who wish to study Arabic for this MSt will have either a BA in Arabic or one in which Arabic has been a majority of the course.
The decision on whether a candidate's first degree qualifies for the course is taken by the Faculty Board.
The precise content of the course is devised by your supervisor in consultation with yourself in order to provide the most useful training for you.
The course content is in each case designed to advance your progress towards a research degree after the completion of the MSt.
You may therefore be required by the supervisor, under the direction of the Faculty Board, to attend lecture courses, seminars, language classes and tutorials, and also to write more extended pieces of written work.
The course may be taught in a variety of ways, depending on your needs.
If you wish to learn a language these are normally taught in classes.
If you wish to concentrate on historical issues, these may be taught primarily in regular tutorials for which you are expected to write essays.
The Bodleian Art, Archaeology and Ancient World Library includes the principal library for Egyptology and ancient Near Eastern Studies.
You will have access to the University's centrally provided electronic resources, the faculty's IT Officer, and other bibliographic, archive or material sources as appropriate to the research topic.
There is a computing room for the use of graduate students in the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies.
The provision of other resources specific to your project would be agreed with your supervisor as a part of the planning stages of the agreed project.
The Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies has a common room where tea and coffee are available and staff and students can meet.
Assessment for this course may take place in any of the three terms throughout the year and is through a combination of essays, examination papers and a dissertation.
Further information on the course, and the examination process, can be found in the course handbook via the course webpage on the faculty's website.
Asian and Middle Eastern studies graduates have found employment in many and diverse fields including business, finance law, civil service, journalism, government and industry.
Many graduates have also undertaken further research into subjects linked with Asian and Middle Eastern studies and have pursued successful careers in the academic world, education and in museums.
For applicants with a degree from the USA, the minimum overall GPA that is normally required to meet the undergraduate-level requirement is 3.5 out of 4.0.
The following colleges accept students on the MSt in Asian and Middle Eastern Studies:
Balliol College Blackfriars Campion Hall Christ Church Harris Manchester College Hertford College Linacre College Mansfield College Pembroke College The Queen's College Regent's Park College St Anne's College St Antony's College St Cross College St John's College St Peter's College University College Wadham College Wolfson College Wycliffe Hall
You must contact a prospective supervisor before you apply to secure their agreement in principle to supervise you whilst pursuing the course.
Please note that only specified teaching staff in the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies are able to accept students for this degree.
A list of these staff is available on the faculty’s course webpage.
Admission is always subject to the assessment of a full application and a supervisor available and willing to oversee your work.
Whilst it is appreciated that obtaining academic references will be difficult for some candidates, academic references are requested because it is necessary to establish whether a candidate is intellectually prepared for a course.
It is unlikely that this is something that can be established from a professional or personal reference, so you should only submit such references if there is absolutely no alternative.
The overall word count should not include any bibliography.
Your statement should also include the name of the supervisor you have contacted and who has agreed to supervise you if you are admitted to the degree.
Written work should ideally relate to the proposed area of study, since a good knowledge of a related field is a requirement for the MSt in Asian and Middle Eastern Studies.
However, there are also many other things that assessors will look for in the written work which are not specific to the subject area, such as ability to construct and defend an argument and presentation of material in the appropriate scholarly form.
† Combined for all the faculty's MSt courses *Three-year average (applications for entry in 2022-23 to 2024-25)
This course was previously known as the MSt in Oriental Studies

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-astrophysics:
The DPhil in Astrophysics is a research-based degree available to students interested in carrying out research in observational or theoretical astrophysics, or in astronomical instrumentation.
This research-based course normally takes three to four years of study and has a strong track record of preparing students for careers in academia and elsewhere.
You will be a member of a lively research environment and the department places great emphasis on matching student and supervisor.
You will be expected to carry out your own research project, which will be offered from the Sub-department of Astrophysics’ broad range of research areas.
Your research work begins on day one and will be underpinned by a taught graduate course in the first year that runs in parallel.
It will provide a comprehensive overview of both the state of modern astrophysics and the necessary skills required to make progress in 21st century research.
You will also have the opportunity to follow courses taught at other departments across the Maths, Physics and Life Sciences division.
You will engage in a thorough skills training programme which includes a range of workshops and seminars in transferable skills, generic research skills and specific research techniques.
There are also numerous seminars and lectures held in the department by local and visiting physicists, and you will be provided with many opportunities to meet experts in various fields.
There will also be opportunity for you to present your work at both formal and informal conferences, seminars and colloquia.
During your DPhil, you will be expected (and supported) to travel, both to meet and work with collaborators and to carry out fieldwork where appropriate, through trips to observatories and on-site experimental work.
Provision exists for students on some courses to undertake their research in a ‘well-founded laboratory’ outside of the University.
This may require travel to and attendance at a site that is not located in Oxford.
Where known, existing collaborations will be outlined on this page.
Please read the course information carefully, including the additional information about course fees and costs.
You will have access to appropriate computing equipment and support, which will be discussed with you before your arrival.
This may include access to high performance computing and to the full range of space and ground-based facilities where necessary.
Additionally, if you are working on a computationally intensive project, you will have appropriate access to the departmental cluster computers and national facilities.
You will be provided with a desk in a shared office space in the Denys Wilkinson Building - or, if appropriate, with the theory sub-department - alongside astrophysics staff, with whom you will share a variety of meeting rooms and an on-site canteen which doubles as a social space for the group.
For this course, the allocation of graduate supervision is the responsibility of the Department of Physics and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Your DPhil offer is based on working with a named supervisor(s), who you will have the opportunity to meet individually with to discuss your project.
Your supervisor(s) will be your main source of information and advice throughout the course of your research.
Their responsibilities include giving you early advice about the nature of research and the standard expected, and about planning the framework of your research programme.
It is likely that you will also be working closely with other members of that supervisor’s group, and sometimes collaborators from other institutes (some of you may even be jointly supervised by an academic from another institute).
There may be an option to add a co-supervisor if you find yourself working closely with another group member.
Under exceptional circumstances, a supervisor may be found outside the Department of Physics.
A successful transfer of status from PRS to DPhil status will require satisfactory attendance at the compulsory graduate lecture programme.
You will also be required to write a report on your progress during the first year and you will be assessed by two members of staff (neither of whom will be your primary supervisor).
Students who are successful at transfer will also be expected to apply for and gain confirmation of DPhil status within nine terms of admission, to show that your work continues to be on track.
You will be expected to submit a thesis of no more than 250 pages (roughly 125,000 words) within four years from the date of admission.
To be successfully awarded a DPhil in Astrophysics you will need to defend your thesis orally (viva voce) in front of two appointed examiners.
Over the past decade, about three quarters of graduates of the DPhil in Astrophysics have gone on to postdoctoral positions in astrophysics, and most stay the field long-term.
Other graduates typically take up positions in industry, teach, or work in the financial sector or in the growing number of jobs available to those with backgrounds in 'data science'.
Directly-related professional expertise may be a substitute; for example, significant instrument-building experience.
However, selection of candidates also depends on other factors in your application.
Entry is competitive and most successful applicants have achieved higher GPA scores.
If you have publications, make sure they are highlighted in your research statement; the committee will consider your track record in light of your professional experience and relative to opportunity.
Note that many candidates with no peer-reviewed publications receive offers each year.
This course requires proficiency in English at the University's standard level .
The minimum scores required to meet the University's standard level are detailed in the table below.
You will be required to supply supporting documents with your application, including references and an official transcript.
See 'How to apply' for instructions on the documents you will need and how these will be assessed.
Offers are made to work on a particular project, therefore after your interview we will ask you to let us know your top 3 project choices, should you be successful.
Candidates invited for interview will have an opportunity to talk with potential supervisors about projects in detail..
Interviews are normally held during February and March, following a shortlisting procedure which takes into account your academic qualifications (and professional track record if applicable), research statement and references.
You will receive either one or two interviews with two members of staff, either in person, via video link or on the phone.
This course may require you to obtain an ATAS certificate before you can apply for a visa/immigration permission.
If you are offered a place, the academic department will confirm whether an ATAS certificate is required.
If so, they will also send you the information you need to apply for one.
You can apply for ATAS whilst your offer is conditional and before the Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) is issued.
Further information about ATAS is available on the student visa webpages.
As a graduate student at Oxford’s Department of Physics, you will work alongside world experts, have access to the department’s world-class facilities and be part of one of the top-ranked Physics departments in the world (QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025: Physics & Astronomy).
Graduate students also get to benefit from the close relations the department foster’s with other facilities in the UK and around the world.
In the UK, these include the leading science and innovation campus at Harwell home to the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory and Diamond Light Source synchrotron among others.
Internationally, it extends to the European High Magnetic Field Laboratory (EMFL), the National High Magnetic Field Laboratory (NHMF) in the USA, Large Hadron Collider at CERN, T2K in Japan, DUNE in the USA and large telescopes around the world.
Each year, the department welcomes approximately 90 graduate research students to study for a 3 to 4-year DPhil research degree – which is equivalent to a PhD.
A taught masters’ degree course is offered joined by the department and the Mathematical Institute and welcomes approximately 50 students annually.
The department’s research students have access to world-class facilities and resources, from the ultra-low vibration and ultra-low temperature labs in the state-of-the-art Beecroft Building, to the in-house specialist research facilities, mechanical and electronic workshops and technicians.
Research students can choose from a range of specialisms across the six sub-departments of astrophysics; atmospheric, oceanic and planetary physics; atomic and laser physics; condensed matter physics; particle physics; and theoretical physics.
Each of these sub-departments is autonomous, although many of the research projects available are interdisciplinary.
The following colleges accept students on the DPhil in Astrophysics:
Balliol College Brasenose College Christ Church Corpus Christi College Exeter College Green Templeton College Hertford College Jesus College Keble College Lady Margaret Hall Linacre College Lincoln College Magdalen College Mansfield College Merton College New College Oriel College Pembroke College The Queen's College Reuben College St Anne's College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Edmund Hall St Hilda's College St Hugh's College St John's College St Peter's College Somerville College Trinity College University College Wadham College Wolfson College Worcester College Wycliffe Hall
If you apply to this course and are considering applying (or have already applied) to any of the associated courses listed below , you can request an application fee waiver so that you only need to pay one application fee.
We recommend that you use your application fee waiver to apply only for eligible courses that are closely related in research area to this one.
For full details about how to request an application fee waiver, please select the course you are interested in from the list below and refer to the equivalent section of its course page.
The following associated courses are taking part in this application fee waiver scheme:
Research areas may overlap across the different physics DPhil courses.
If you are in any doubt about which course(s) to apply to, you are advised to read each of the physics course pages carefully before starting an application.
If you have any course-related questions, please refer to the 'Further information and enquiries' section on each page for the relevant contact details.
It is taking part in the 'Close the Gap' project which aims to improve access to doctoral study.
If known, please enter either a general project area (eg Cosmology) from the list of project areas , or the title of advertised projects you are interested in under 'Proposed field and title of research project'.
Your references must all be academic.
Your references will support intellectual ability, academic achievement, motivation, and your ability to work in a group.
Your statement should focus on your interest, experience and commitment to scientific work and to astrophysics more specifically, rather than more general interests.
You are not expected to invent your own research plan.
The sub-department will look for evidence of scientific reasoning and an ability to cope with new ideas and concepts, as well as an ability to work independently.
The sub-department is also interested in which areas of astrophysics attract you (if known at this stage), and in understanding the reasons behind that choice.
Please note that if applying for multiple physics DPhil programmes, there may be differing requirements or word counts.
This course is offered by the Department of Physics
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 273303

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-atmospheric-oceanic-and-planetary-physics:
The DPhil in Atmospheric, Oceanic and Planetary Physics (AOPP) is a research-based course of three to four years in duration.
Research focuses on the study of physical processes in the atmospheres, surfaces and oceans of the Earth and other planets, using experimental, computational and theoretical techniques.
The course is hosted by the Atmospheric, Oceanic and Planetary Physics (AOPP) sub-department, one of six sub-departments of the Department of Physics, with most facilities and offices located in the Clarendon laboratory.
Admission to this course is highly competitive and is either directly to this course or via Intelligent Earth (UKRI CDT in AI for the Environment) .
Members of the sub-department are engaged in research to answer questions like:
The structure of the taught course components and the initial (first year) assessment will be determined by the method of entry onto the course.
If you applying directly to AOPP, typically for projects in the area of planetary physics or a specifically-funded research project, courses will be provided via lectures given as part of fourth year major option in the University's undergraduate degree in physics, Physics of atmospheres and oceans.
If you apply to enter via the Intelligent Earth (UKRI CDT in AI for the Environment) and are successful, you will spend the first year with the CDT.
The transition to AOPP typically happens at the end of the first year.
Whilst working on your research project you will engage in a thorough skills training programme which includes a range of workshops and seminars in transferable skills, generic research skills and specific research techniques.
There are also numerous seminars and lectures held in the department by local and visiting physicists, and you will be provided with opportunities to meet experts in various fields.
Atmospheric, Oceanic and Planetary Physics has access to world-class laboratory and computational facilities.
IT support is provided by the Department of Physics and includes provision of computers running MS Windows, Linux and Apple Mac OS.
You will usually be allocated a desk within an office with other research students from similar research areas and have access to the department's meeting and lecture facilities.
Academics within AOPP are members of numerous international teams, giving early access to new datasets and opportunities to interact within larger communities of scientists and engineers.
Experimental facilities include a full suite of clean rooms and test equipment for the design, construction and qualification of space flight instrumentation and access to laboratory UV/Visible/infrared spectroscopy facilities and planetary environment simulation chambers.
In addition to research group meetings and a weekly topical seminar series, members of the sub-department meet when able for coffee/tea in AOPP's Common Room.
This provides a useful opportunity to talk informally to people in other research groups as well as your own.
A canteen is available in the Clarendon Laboratory for breakfast/lunch, or you may use AOPP's kitchen facilities.
Research groups often organise social activities.
You are encouraged to engage with invited seminar speakers over lunch.
A dedicated email list is maintained to advise all of upcoming social events.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Department of Physics.
You are allocated at least one supervisor who should be your primary contact for guidance throughout your research degree.
Research students join an existing research group that typically comprises at least one lead academic plus postdoctoral research assistants or fellows and other research students.
Research projects in AOPP can be highly interdisciplinary and students often have additional co-supervisors either within AOPP or another University department.
The frequency of student supervisor meetings varies depending on the nature of the project.
You are welcome to contact potential supervisors for further information.
If you are admitted directly to AOPP, you will be assessed via the successful completion of classes and a first year transfer report, submitted during the summer of your first year.
Please refer to the Intelligent Earth (UKRI CDT in AI for the Environment) webpage for details of assessment for applicants admitted via the CDT .
You are admitted as a probationary DPhil student, and transfer from a probationary status is dependent on successful completion of the taught component of the course and assessment of your first year report by at least two academics that are not directly connected to your project.
A further second year report, also assessed, is required before status as a DPhil candidate is confirmed and your thesis can be submitted.
The written DPhil thesis is assessed by appointed examiners that are not directly connected to the project, with the process including a DPhil viva exam.
Graduates from the programme have gone on to positions within academia, industry and government.
Examples of organisations where recent graduates have found employment have included NASA, the European Space Agency, Airbus Space and Defence and university departments across the world.
Support for career development is provided via the University’s Careers Service , events organised by the Department of Physics for graduate students and locally within AOPP.
The requirements described on this page are for applications made directly to this course.
For the entry requirements for applications made to Intelligent Earth (UKRI CDT in AI for the Environment) , please refer to its course page.
In exceptional cases, the requirement for a first-class or strong upper-second class undergraduate degree with honours can be alternatively demonstrated by a graduate master’s degree or substantial directly-related professional or research experience.
It is helpful to include details of any of the following applicable attributes, which may strengthen your application:
For candidates applying directly to AOPP, interviews are usually held in February and/or March.
Candidates are shortlisted on the basis of their transcripts and referee reports.
Interviews are held between the candidates and potential supervisors, as well as the AOPP's Director of Graduate Studies.
Overseas candidates are interviewed via video call; all other candidates are interviewed either in person or via video call.
You should expect to be asked about your undergraduate course and any previous training.
You will be asked about the research area you have chosen and why you want to work in it.
You should be familiar with potential supervisors' publications relevant to the research area of interest.
All DPhil projects are provided with a research training support grant to cover travel, equipment and consumables.
Expenditure is dependent on the project and always requires the supervisor's agreement.
The following colleges accept students on the DPhil in Atmospheric, Oceanic and Planetary Physics:
Balliol College Brasenose College Christ Church Corpus Christi College Exeter College Hertford College Jesus College Lady Margaret Hall Linacre College Lincoln College Magdalen College Mansfield College Merton College New College Oriel College Pembroke College Reuben College St Anne's College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Edmund Hall St Hilda's College St Hugh's College St John's College St Peter's College Somerville College Trinity College University College Wadham College Wolfson College Worcester College Wycliffe Hall
If you have questions about a particular research area or any advertised research project, you are welcome to contact the lead academic or supervisor directly using the contact details on the department's website.
Any queries of an administrative nature should be addressed to the departmental representative using the contact details provided on this page.
If you are applying with your own research proposal, enter your project title, under 'Proposed field and title of research project'.
It is not necessary to agree this with a potential supervisor in advance.
Alternatively, you can use this to indicate an interest in one or more of our key research themes, ie climate, or planetary Physics.
Your references should generally be academic, although one may be a professional reference.
Your proposal should describe any research project you have been involved in, eg an undergraduate research project, and give any other evidence of your motivation and commitment to studying these topics.
If you have any specific interest in an area, please describe why.
It is not necessary to provide copies of any papers or research articles in your application.
This will be assessed for evidence of your motivation for and understanding of the proposed area of study.
To help AOPP match your application to advertised projects, please include a list of potential supervisors in order of preference as part of your research proposal as well as listing the supervisor names where requested in your application form.
*Three-year average (applications for entry in 2022-23 to 2024-25), excluding applications via other courses
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 272901 or +44 (0)1865 282284

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-atomic-and-laser-physics:
The DPhil in Atmospheric and Laser Physics (ALP) is a research-based course of three to four years in duration.
Research in atomic and laser physics involves some of the most rapidly developing areas of physical science and ranges from the fundamental physics of quantum systems to interdisciplinary application of lasers.
This course is hosted by the Atmospheric and Laser Physics sub-department, one of six sub-departments of the Department of Physics.
The sub-department researches the interaction of light and matter over an enormous range of conditions, from high-energy plasmas created by the most powerful lasers in the world, to the coherent manipulation of single quantum particles for implementing quantum information processing, to the creation of exotic states of quantum matter such as Bose-Einstein condensation.
Research in atomic and laser physics (ALP) involves some of the most rapidly developing areas of physical science and ranges from the fundamental physics of quantum systems to interdisciplinary application of lasers.
The research themes include the following, using both experiment and theory:
A list of current projects is available on the sub-department's website.
You will be expected to attend a taught course one day a week in atomic and laser physics in the first year, comprising lectures, seminars and discussion classes at graduate level.
Depending on your level of knowledge, the department may also require you to attend lectures in the final year (masters’-level) undergraduate course at Oxford.
The ALP sub-department provides a detailed timetable and syllabus list for the graduate class.
Topics covered include:
Some subjects, such as laser-plasma interactions and high energy density science, are taught across a number of sub- departments.
In addition, the sub-department's journal club focuses on recent research highlights in atomic and laser physics, quantum technologies, and laser-plasma interactions.
Active participation is compulsory for first year graduate students and takes place once a week in term time.
Many other opportunities exist to attend training courses outside the sub-department.
The extent of resources, laboratories and other experimental facilities depend very strongly on the particular research project.
The department provides a good level of IT support, online access to most relevant journals and access to the Radcliffe Science Library.
Access is provided to the student mechanical workshop after attending an initial training session.
You will usually be allocated a desk in a shared office.
There are also small common areas in each group where people can meet up, in addition to the department's common room (canteen).
The academic year starts off with a welcome to Oxford, which includes a tour of Oxford and a welcome party where the new student intake can meet the academic staff, postdoctoral researchers and second year students.
You will have the opportunity to meet with your supervisor individually to discuss your project.
Within a maximum of four terms you will be expected to apply for transfer of status from Probationer Research Student to DPhil status.
A successful transfer of status from PRS to DPhil status will require a written report.
If you are successful at transfer you will also be expected to apply for and gain confirmation of DPhil status to show that your work continues to be on track.
This will need to done within nine terms of admission for full-time students.
Full-time students will be expected to submit a thesis within 12 terms of admission.
To be successfully awarded a DPhil in Atomic and Laser Physics you will need to defend your thesis orally (viva voce)
A large number of former ALP graduate students now pursue careers in either academia or industry, predominantly focusing on research and development.
Entrance is very competitive and most successful applicants have a first-class degree or the equivalent as well as a master's degree.
In exceptional cases, the requirement for a first-class or strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours can be alternatively demonstrated by a graduate master’s degree or substantial directly-related professional or research experience.
However, selection of candidates also depends on other factors in your application and most successful applicants have achieved higher GPA scores.
After the deadline the applications are looked at by potential supervisors (either those named by the applicant or another supervisor may show interest in the candidate).
The Graduate Admissions Committee meet to discuss all the applications which ends with an interview list.
Candidates and potential supervisors are canvassed for dates/times when the interview can take place.
Where possible these are face to face; however, video link interviews will be held for overseas candidates.
A formal interview will be held, usually with three academics present (at least one representative from the Graduate Admissions Committee).
The interview lasts 30 minutes which includes a 10 minute presentation on subjects such as a practical scientific work project that you have carried out as part of your course or a vacation project, a part of your course work or a theoretical topic that you found interesting.
You should be prepared to answer questions on your presentation.
The committee will also ask you questions about your current undergraduate studies and what your plans are for the future.
After the formal interview there is the opportunity to visit group heads in the areas of research in which you are most interested, to discuss the research project(s) on offer and be shown around the department (time permitting).
There is the possibility for this to be conducted via Teams for any overseas candidates.
You will be notified, in writing, of the outcome of your interview as soon as a decision has been made.
The following colleges accept students on the DPhil in Atomic and Laser Physics:
Balliol College Brasenose College Christ Church Corpus Christi College Exeter College Hertford College Jesus College Keble College Lady Margaret Hall Linacre College Lincoln College Magdalen College Mansfield College Merton College New College Oriel College Pembroke College The Queen's College St Anne's College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Edmund Hall St Hilda's College St Hugh's College St John's College St Peter's College Somerville College Trinity College University College Wadham College Wolfson College Worcester College Wycliffe Hall
You are encouraged to communicate with the department in order refine your application, especially where studentships are involved, using the contact details provided on this page.
A description of potential research projects is published on the department's website.
You may contact academic members of staff after reading these project descriptions to clarify specific aspects of prospective projects before submitting your application.
If you are applying to an advertised project, please enter the title of up to 5 advertised projects (in order of preference or indicating equal preference) under 'Proposed field and title of research project'.
Please note, John Adams Institute for Accelerator Science candidates should also apply to this course.
Alternatively, you can use this to indicate an interest in one or more of our key research themes, ie quantum science, or high – energy density science.
If you are applying with your own research proposal, enter your project title, as agreed with your potential supervisor (s) under 'Proposed field and title of research project'.
All references should be academic.
A research proposal outlining your research interests and experience should be submitted.
The proposal should outline your reasons for wishing to study for a DPhil in Atomic and Laser Physics, and the type of research project that you wish to undertake.
It is not necessary to be very specific about your choice of project, but if you do have a clear preference for a particular research area or supervisor please indicate and explain this.
You should describe previous research experience.
The proposal should be written in English and the overall page count should include any bibliography.
This will be assessed for evidence of motivation for and understanding of the proposed area of study, the ability to present a reasoned case in English, and commitment to the subject.
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 282284

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/autonomous-intelligent-machines-and-systems:
The Autonomous Intelligent Machines and Systems (AIMS) Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) provides graduates with the opportunity to develop in-depth knowledge, understanding and expertise in autonomous intelligent systems.
The programme provides a comprehensive, state-of-the-art view of autonomous intelligent systems, combining theoretical foundations, systems research, academic training and industry-initiated projects and thus mixing both practical and theoretical aspects of intelligent machines and systems.
The first year (first two years if studying part-time) is oriented towards developing your knowledge base.
You will need to take a number of courses during your first year (over two years if studying part-time).
Your day will comprise of lectures each morning with laboratory sessions each afternoon.
You will undertake two ten- to twelve-week mini-projects, precursors to your DPhil study, to hone your research skills and shape your main research area (if studying part-time, you will take one in your first year and the other in your second year).
You will meet your supervisor regularly to assess progress and discuss academic issues.
Years two to four (three to eight if studying part-time) see an increasing emphasis on individual research.
You will be encouraged to develop projects based on your own research ideas within the four key research themes of Machine Learning, as a unifying core; Robotics & Vision, Control and Verification, and Cyber-Physical Systems (eg sensor networks).
Training will continue in academic reading, writing and presentation skills, business and commerce (to include innovation and IP curatorship and entrepreneurship), career development and planning, and ethics and law, where the societal implications of autonomous systems will be considered.
Research seminars are used to discuss papers, for rehearsing conference talks and for building links between groups.
An annual workshop gives the opportunity to present research to students, industrial partners and invited researchers from other universities.
Industrial collaborators are invited to share their latest problems and market trends and to discuss opportunities for future collaboration.
If studying full-time, you will spend one or two months over the second or third summer in an industrial lab to gain experience in industry-led projects and expanding your horizons by engaging in an AIMS topic that is not your main one.
If studying part-time, it is recommended that you take on an internship between years four and six.
After the end of the internship, further interaction will be encouraged by inviting your industrial supervisors to join your group in Oxford for short periods.
You will also be encouraged to take demonstrations of your systems to companies, government departments, as well as schools.
In the fourth year, the cohort help organise the annual workshop, inviting keynote speakers, participating in the program committee, reviewing papers submitted by second and third year students, and publicising the workshop to universities and industrial partners beyond those directly involved in the CDT.
The full-time course is usually studied over three to four years.
The part-time courses is usually studied over six to eight years.
The AIMS CDT is resourced by the UK's Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council, and is jointly hosted by the Department of Computer Science and Department of Engineering Science.
There are strong links with researchers in other departments in the mathematical and physical sciences, and, ever increasingly, with researchers and practitioners in medical science departments and University hospitals.
The key research cluster for AIMS is information, control and vision engineering, which is well-supported by experienced technical, computing, and administrative staff.
The department has well-equipped research areas and workshops, as well as offices, lecture theatres, library, common room, stores, reprographics and other facilities.
For this course, the allocation of graduate supervision is the responsibility of the Department of Engineering Science and/or Department of Computer Science and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Department of Engineering Science and Department of Computer Science.
Students will have the opportunity to meet their supervisor on a regular basis to discuss their progress.
For full-time students, these meetings are usually at least once every two weeks, averaged across the year, and once a month for part-time students.
If you are studying full-time, you will be assessed continually throughout the first year during courses and projects and at its end the programme supervisors will assess whether sufficient progress has been made to continue to the research phase.
At the end of the second year, you will be required to write a report and give a presentation on your research, and to present a detailed and coherent plan for the research-intensive phase in the third and fourth years of your doctoral studies.
Progress towards completion is again formally assessed some way into the final year of study.
If studying part-time, you will be assessed over the first two years.
Timings will differ for the presentation for part-time students.
For the DPhil you will be required to submit a substantial thesis which is read and examined by experts in the field, one from the department and one from elsewhere.
Often the thesis will result in the publication of several journal and conference papers.
The development of a positive group dynamic within and between year groups in the CDT and the progressive increase of responsibility and external exposure, equips graduates from the AIMS programme for leadership roles in industry both nationally and internationally.
It is anticipated that others will continue to spend time in postdoctoral research, probably developing the work in their theses towards product.
The qualification above should be achieved in one of the following subject areas or disciplines:
A previous master's qualification is not required.
No Graduate Record Examination (GRE) scores are sought.
Candidates will need to demonstrate a broad interest in some or all of the four AIMS themes:
Interviews (in person or by other means) may form part of the admissions process.
This course is offered jointly by the following departments:
Established in 1908, the Department of Engineering Science brings together the study of all branches of engineering at Oxford.
It has a community of around 140 academics, 760 graduate students and 250 postdoctoral researchers and research fellows at any given time.
The department has grown to become a world leading academic unit with a portfolio that incorporates most engineering disciplines, with many faculty members working in several areas.
It maintains an exceptional reputation in multiple aspects of engineering, leading in the training of young minds, and excelling at innovating - all the while working closely with companies such as Google, Rolls-Royce, Jaguar Land Rover and Dyson.
The department has an annual turnover of around £80m, of which research grant income is approximately £31m.
Professors work at the vanguard of new technology development, innovation, and implementation, and their research impacts on government policy, industry, healthcare, infrastructure, communications, transport, and security.
The department has an excellent record of engagement with industry and of translating research results into real-world applications.
It has generated numerous successful spin-out companies.
The department is located across several sites.
The central Oxford buildings in the Keble Triangle house the main lecture theatres as well as many of the labs.
Nearby is The Oxford Robotics Institute, a cutting-edge research institute in the field of robotics and autonomous systems, and the Oxford e-Research Centre, a multidisciplinary data science research and education institute.
Other research groups and Institutes such as the Oxford Thermofluids Institute, the Zero-carbon Energy Research Institute, and the Institute of Biomedical Engineering are located on different sites in and around Oxford.
">Video of #1: Cool your jets
You will have the opportunity to meet other students and staff working across these research areas by attending seminars, workshops and lectures, and through social events organised by the Computer Science Graduate Society and the Oxford Women in Computer Science Society.
The department is home to undergraduates, full-time and part-time master's students, and has a strong doctoral programme.
We expect that the majority of applicants who are offered a place on this course will also be offered a fully-funded scholarship specific to this course, covering course fees for the duration of their course and a living stipend.
If you apply to this course and up to two eligible courses during the same application cycle, you can request an application fee waiver so that you only need to pay one application fee.
To be considered eligible for an application fee waiver, each additional course must be:
If this is the first eligible course that you are applying to, you can request an application fee waiver for an additional course after you have submitted your application for this course.
If you have already applied to another course that the meets the eligibility criteria shown above, you should request an application fee waiver before starting an application to this course.
Remember to state clearly in your request which course(s) you intend to apply to.
If your request is successful, you will receive an application fee waiver code that is valid for this admission cycle (ie for entry in the 2025-26 academic year).
Our Application Guide provides instructions for entering your application fee waiver code.
You are encouraged to communicate with the department's Administrator via the contact details provided on this page in order to refine your application, especially where studentships are involved.
As you will not choose your research area until the end of year one, you do not need to specify a research field, or project title beyond "Cohort-based training programme in AIMS" in your application.
As you will not choose your research supervisor until the end of year one, you do not need to specify a supervisor beyond "Cohort-based training programme in AIMS" in your application.
Your academic references should refer directly and specifically to the themes of the AIMS CDT.
Your statement should focus on your research and career ambitions in the area of the programme, rather than on other personal achievements, interests and aspirations.
It should refer directly and specifically to the themes of the CDT.
As part of the same document, you should also include a brief, non-binding, speculative, research proposal.
This will be assessed for your past commitment to sustained and intense study, your reasons for wishing to undertake research in the area of autonomous intelligent machines and systems and how the interdisciplinary approach in the CDT will be of benefit in this context.
As well as your ability to commit sufficient time to study and fulfil all elements outlined in the course description if you are applying for part-time study.
*Three-year average (applications for entry in 2022-23 to 2024-25) † One year of applications (for entry in 2024-25)
This course is offered jointly by the Department of Engineering Science and the Department of Computer Science
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 616632

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/bachelor-civil-law:
The Bachelor of Civil Law (BCL) is a world-renowned taught graduate course in law, designed to serve outstanding law students from common law backgrounds.
The academic standard is significantly higher than that required in a first law degree, and only those with outstanding first law degrees are admitted.
The programme comprises approximately forty full options (including a dissertation option) and eight to ten half-options.
A list of the options can be found on the course page of the Law Faculty website.
Students must choose either four full options, or three full options and two half-options, or two full options and four half-options.
All options are taught by a combination of seminars and tutorials (some also offer lectures) with the exception of the dissertation, which involves one-to- one sessions with an assigned supervisor.
Seminars are normally led by a senior member of academic staff but are typically interactive in nature, and you will be expected to participate in the discussions arising from the material covered.
Tutorials involve an intensive discussion between a tutor and a small group of students, usually between two and four, providing an opportunity for you to present your ideas and discuss your work with leading academics.
Typically, seminars will introduce you to a particular area of study and familiarise you with general concepts and ideas which will then be investigated in greater depth in the tutorials.
For most tutorials you will be expected to write an essay, which typically will be marked and returned to you at the next tutorial.
Outside of the seminars and tutorials, you will be expected to read extensively in order to acquire the necessary knowledge to engage with course material at an appropriate level.
The balance between teaching and independent study will vary from option to option, but as a rough guide, you may expect a ratio of four hours of independent study to every one hour of teaching.
You will be expected to spend at least 45 hours studying each week during term, and to undertake some further study during vacations.
The Law Faculty is fortunate to have outstanding library facilities provided by the Bodleian Law Library.
As part of the Bodleian, the Law Library shares in all the advantages of being part of the largest university library in the country, including the receipt, under legal deposit legislation, of legal material published in the UK and Ireland.
The Law Library offers the vast majority of its holdings - some 550,000 items - on open shelves across four floors.
Selected low-use material is housed in a book storage facility and is retrievable within half a day.
The library serves a large community of graduate readers and academics in their research requirements.
The strength of the collection lies in the depth of its UK holdings, combined with extensive holdings for European and Commonwealth jurisdictions.
In addition, the library holds materials relating to international law, Roman law, and jurisprudence.
To complement the paper collection, the Law Library provides a wide range of online legal resources.
The Bodleian’s collection of Official Papers is also housed in the Law Library.
The library has reader workstations, and provides access to legal databases.
There is a Graduate Reading Room, a large seminar room,  IT rooms and  small ‘discussion rooms’ for private study or group work.
The law librarians offer a range of classes and one-to-one sessions to support the specific research needs of graduate students.
For this course, the allocation of graduate supervision is the responsibility of the Law Faculty and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside of the Law Faculty.
BCL students have an academic advisor rather than a supervisor, who will meet with the students at the beginning of the academic year and then usually once a term for the remainder of the academic year.
The academic advisor gives general advice and provides an oversight of the student’s progress, with detailed academic advice provided by those who teach on the particular options the student is taking.
Most options are assessed by means of timed examinations at the end of the course but a number use assessed essays written over a longer period.
Further information about forms of assessment is provided on the Law Faculty's website .
BCL graduates pursue a range of careers after completion of the degree.
The most common career paths are entry into legal practice, either as a solicitor or a barrister, or progression to academic research in the shape of the MPhil and DPhil, and thenceforth into an academic career.
The University of Oxford has an excellent careers service with which the department has close ties.
The Careers Service organises a number of events of specific interest to students wishing to pursue a career in law, and offers one-to-one advice from members of staff with knowledge and experience specific to the legal sector.
The Law Faculty has an extensive network of relationships within the legal profession and each year offers a number of talks and events run by law firms and barristers’ chambers.
In the absence of an undergraduate degree in law, candidates may be admitted with a postgraduate diploma or master's qualification in law at distinction level, though this is rare and is generally only possible if the candidate has completed the programme in question before applying for the BCL.
For applicants with a degree from the USA, the minimum overall GPA that is normally required to meet the undergraduate-level requirement is 3.7 out of 4.0.
Oxford’s Faculty of Law, one of the largest in the UK, offers you the opportunity to study alongside some of the best law graduates of your generation, under the direct supervision of some of the world’s leading legal scholars.
There is a Graduate Reading Room, a large seminar room, IT rooms and small ‘discussion rooms’ for private study or group work.
The Law Faculty building houses a café/study space and the Faculty organises many academic events intended for graduate students (mainly in the form of ‘discussion groups’), some of which are available online.
Adjacent to the Law Faculty building is the Social Science Library, one of the University of Oxford's busiest lending and reference libraries, supporting staff and students in the Social Sciences Division.
It offers a wide range of workspaces as well as borrowing services, printing and IT facilities, and research support.
The Centre for Criminology is an embedded unit of the University’s Faculty of Law.
The centre is dedicated to pursuing an innovative programme of criminological research and to delivering high-quality graduate education in criminology.
It has a vibrant programme of research, aimed principally at fostering and developing clusters of research activity around the following substantive themes:
The Centre’s work across these areas is intersected by orientations and intellectual commitments that speak to the distinctive collective character of criminological research in Oxford.
These are:
These approaches to the study of crime and criminal justice inform teaching and doctoral supervision in the centre.
They create an intellectually stimulating and collaborative environment to pursue your study in criminology.
The Centre for Socio-Legal Studies (CSLS) brings together scholars with diverse academic backgrounds and ambitions, who pursue their own research topics and are also encouraged to collaborate widely and develop multifaceted research programmes.
Researchers address fundamental questions about the nature of law, its relations with morality, religion, and justice, and its role in regulation, government and community, the nature of rules and legalistic thought, the development of laws, legal systems and legal cultures, and the social character of the rule of law.
The CSLS welcomes students who wish to pursue research in any aspect of socio-legal studies, broadly defined.
The centre's staff have a range of expertise in socio-legal research and methodologies and draw on a range of cognate fields, including anthropology, jurisprudence, political science, regulation studies, economics and sociology.
Supervision can be offered in most areas of social-legal studies.
The CSLS has a community of around thirteen full-time research staff and thirty-three graduate research students.
Links with leading scholars in Oxford’s Faculty of Law and throughout the University enhance the breadth of the centre’s research and the resources made available to students.
The Bonavero Institute of Human Rights , is dedicated to fostering world-class research in human rights law, to promoting public engagement in and understanding of human rights issues, and to building valuable conversations and collaborations between human rights scholars and human rights practitioners.
The Institute, a research centre within the Faculty of Law, is based at Mansfield College, Oxford.
It seeks to provide opportunities for students at the University of Oxford to explore current issues in human rights, and to think about the application of human rights law in practice.
The following colleges accept students on the Bachelor of Civil Law:
Balliol College Brasenose College Christ Church Corpus Christi College Exeter College Harris Manchester College Hertford College Jesus College Keble College Lady Margaret Hall Linacre College Lincoln College Magdalen College Mansfield College Merton College New College Oriel College Pembroke College The Queen's College Regent's Park College St Anne's College St Antony's College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Edmund Hall St Hilda's College St Hugh's College St John's College St Peter's College Somerville College Trinity College University College Wadham College Wolfson College Worcester College Wycliffe Hall
Academic references are strongly preferred; a professional reference will be accepted if you also provide two academic references, but if you are in a position to provide three academic references then it is highly recommended that you do so.
Your statement should be written in English and explain your motivation for applying for the course at Oxford, your academic history and relevant experience, and the specific areas that interest you and/or you intend to specialise in.
The personal statement generally plays a less important role in the Law Faculty's assessment of applications than the references, written work, and academic qualifications.
This may be assessed on your ability to present a reasoned case in English if this cannot be established from the rest of the application; but in most cases the statement will not constitute part of the formal assessment, though may provide information relevant to consideration for scholarships.
The work must be written in English and on a legal topic.
Academic work from your most recent qualification is preferred, but work written in a professional context may be submitted if academic work is not readily available.
Your written work may be an extract of the required length from a longer piece - in such cases, the work should be prefaced by a note which puts it in context.
This will be assessed for a comprehensive understanding of the subject area, an understanding of problems in the area, an ability to construct and defend an argument, your powers of analysis and your powers of expression.
*Combined total places for Bachelor of Civil Law and Magister Juris (MJur) .
This course is offered by the Faculty of Law
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 281051

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/mst-bible-interpretation:
This course is intended to give you experience in reading a range of primary exegetical texts in Classical Hebrew, Aramaic and Syriac; help you develop research methodologies through the writing of a 15,000 word dissertation; and to provide you with a solid basis in the subject area if you are considering to going on to do original research.
Teaching for the compulsory core course is covered by a combination of lectures, seminars and tutorials covering the principal sources for exegesis of the Hebrew Bible/Old Testament, and select topics will be covered in Michaelmas and Hilary terms.
These may include ancient Bible translations, Qumran texts, Rabbinic hermeneutics, Greek and Latin patristics, or early Syriac commentaries.
They will be explored in the essays set which you will present in meetings with your tutor, either in one-to-one sessions or with one or two other students in related subjects (such sessions are known as ‘tutorials’).
For your other two papers, you will select two options from the following five:
Set texts in the first Semitic language (or in Latin and/or Greek if chosen) will be studied in classes in all three terms.
If required, intensive elementary language teaching in a second Semitic language followed by textual study is available in the first term, comprising two to three hours per week.
Since elementary language teaching will start with the basics of the grammar, classes may be shared with undergraduate or graduate beginners in other appropriate courses (Classical Hebrew, Syriac, and Aramaic).
You will be expected to attend such classes regularly, and to complete any homework set in good time.
It is also essential to spend time consolidating your knowledge of the grammar and vocabulary of the languages you are studying during the university vacations at Christmas and Easter.
Most teaching for this master’s course will take place in small classes or tutorials, normally given mainly by the course convenor, Professor Alison Salvesen, but also supplemented by recommended lectures, classes and seminars taught by other colleagues, such as Dr Dorota Molin, Prof.
David Taylor, and Prof.
Meron Piotrkowski.
You will be expected to prepare the set texts in advance of each class, in order to derive the maximum benefit from the intense form of study.
Numbers of students on the course are very small (one or two per year) and so teaching is tailored according to the needs and interests of individual students.
Classes are sometimes shared with those on other similar courses.
Teaching for certain options may not be available in every year.
You will also be expected to attend seminars in relevant areas: there are regular seminar series in Jewish Studies in the Greco-Roman Period, Patristics, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Hebrew Bible/Old Testament, and New Testament, as well as special lectures given by visiting scholars.
An average attendance of two seminars per week in Michaelmas and Hilary terms is advisable, in line with your subject choices and interests.
You may come to Oxford with precise ideas about the subject of your dissertation, or you may have a broader interest in a particular topic that needs to be developed.
Either way, you will be able to discuss dissertation ideas with your supervisor or lecturers towards the end of the first term, spend time thinking and reading over the Christmas vacation, and submit your title at the very beginning of the second term (Hilary).
It is vital to start work on the dissertation early in the academic year, and not to leave it too late.
Overall, you may expect to spend 10-12 hours attending lectures, seminars, tutorials, and classes each week during term, and a minimum of a further 30 hours on self-directed study.
The University vacations are also important times for reading and study, especially the Easter vacation, when you will principally need to focus on your dissertation.
While studying for the MSt in Bible Interpretation at Oxford you will have access to the collections of the Nizami Ganjavi Library (which holds many Syriac books), the Bodleian Art, Archaeology and Ancient World Library (Classics and the Ancient Near East), the Philosophy and Theology Faculties Library (for patristic writers), and the Leopold Muller Library (rabbinic literature, Targum and Septuagint).
A limited amount of grant money for trips abroad (eg for supplementary language study during vacations) may be sought from the faculty.
You will have access to the University's centrally provided electronic resources and the Faculty IT Officer.
There are common rooms in both the Pusey Lane Building of the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies and the Clarendon Institute where tea and coffee is available and staff and students can meet.
For this course, the allocation of graduate supervision is the responsibility of the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies and Faculty of Theology and Religion.
You will be encouraged to discuss your ideas for the dissertation during Michaelmas term and the Christmas vacation, ready for the submission of the approval form to the Faculty at the beginning of Hilary term.
Most students then have the opportunity to receive supervisions of their dissertation, once they have begun the work, at least every two weeks during term until submission, supplemented with email and online contact over the Easter vacation.
Assessment takes place at the end of the academic year, and takes the form of three examination papers (one on the compulsory core paper, and the other two on prescribed texts), plus a 15,000 word dissertation on some aspect of Bible interpretation in antiquity.
The topic and title of the dissertation are chosen in consultation with your supervisor, and the dissertation itself will be submitted at the end of the fourth week of Trinity term, before the examinations for the other papers.
The first examination paper consists of essay questions for the compulsory core paper on early translations and interpretations of the Hebrew Bible/Old Testament.
On both of the two papers chosen as options you will be asked to translate into English a number of passages from set texts and comment on points of exegetical and other interest in them, and also to answer one essay on the background or aspects of the set texts.
Candidates may be required to attend a viva.
Asian and Middle Eastern studies graduates have found employment in many and diverse fields including business, finance law, civil service, journalism, government and industry.
Many graduates have also undertaken further research into subjects linked with Asian and Middle Eastern studies and have pursued successful careers in the academic world, education and in museums.
Interviews may be held as part of the admissions process.
Interviews are not a regular feature of the admissions process, but an online interview may be arranged by the assessors if considered helpful; for example, to discuss the suitability of the chosen course.
The interview will normally be held by the two assessors, and the date and time will be agreed by email.
Candidates would not need to do any additional preparations for their online interview.
The following colleges accept students on the MSt in Bible Interpretation:
Blackfriars Campion Hall Linacre College Oriel College Pembroke College Regent's Park College St Stephen's House Wolfson College Wycliffe Hall
Your statement should be written in English and explain your motivation for applying for the course at Oxford, your relevant experience and education, your experience of and proficiency level in the required language(s) and the specific areas that interest you and/or you intend to specialise in.
The overall word count should include any bibliography.
This will be assessed for your reasons for applying, especially to Oxford; evidence of motivation for and understanding of the proposed area of study; commitment to the subject; preliminary knowledge of research techniques; capacity for sustained and intense work at a high intellectual level; reasoning ability; and ability to absorb new ideas at a rapid pace.
† Combined for all the faculty's MSt courses *Two-year average (applications for entry in 2023-24 and 2024-25)

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-biochemistry:
This programme aims to train students in cutting-edge laboratory research applying techniques in bionanotechnology, biophysics, computational biology, microscopy, molecular biology, structural biology and systems biology to a broad range of fields including cell biology, chromosome biology, drug discovery, epigenetics, host-pathogen interactions, membrane proteins, ion channels and transporters, and RNA biology.
You will be admitted directly to a particular research area led by departmental members who will be appointed DPhil supervisors.
If you are admitted to a particular research supervisor you will not normally do laboratory rotations.
You will be based in a research lab and undertake research on a subject agreed with your supervisor.
Examples of research themes can be found on the department's website.
There are no taught courses examined by written papers, however you will have access to a wide range of lecture courses at foundation or preliminary level, as appropriate.
If you have changed fields, this will allow you to fill in gaps in your background knowledge.
There is also a wide range of courses and workshops which you can attend to acquire skills that will be necessary for the pursuance and presentation of your research, as well as your professional development as a research scientist.
Departmental seminars and colloquia bring students together with academic and other research staff in the department to hear about on-going research, and provide an opportunity for networking and socialising.
The length of the programme ranges from three to four years with the exact duration depending on the following factors as judged by your supervisor(s) and assessors:
A small proportion of DPhil students (about 5%) submit their theses within three years from starting, however on average most students submit within three to four years.
By the end of the fourth year, 70-90% of students have submitted their theses.
Research at the Department of Biochemistry is divided into five main themes:
You will have access to:
The provision of project-specific resources will be agreed with the relevant supervisor during the planning stages of the research project.
There is the possibility to use facilities in other departments across the division and to access remote facilities at the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, DIAMOND Light Source and Harwell Science and Innovation Campus.
For this course, the allocation of graduate supervision is the responsibility of the Department of Biochemistry and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Department of Biochemistry.
Your supervisor may appoint a senior member of the laboratory as your day-to-day supervisor.
Most students have an opportunity to meet their supervisor on a weekly or fortnightly basis.
In addition, Most laboratories also have weekly meetings where members present and discuss their results with other members of the laboratory.
Information about supervisors connected with this course can also be found at the Department of Biochemistry website.
You will begin your course as a probationary research student (PRS) and near the end of the first year you will apply to transfer to DPhil (PhD) status.
To do this you write a research report and statement of future research plans.
This will be assessed by two independent experts, who interview you as part of the process.
Continuation in the programme is subject to passing the Transfer of Status exam.
After eight terms of study you will need to apply formally to confirm your DPhil status.
This involves writing a short progress report and thesis outline and giving a presentation.
The application is assessed by two independent experts.
Continuation in the programme is subject to successfully completing the Confirmation of Status.
The final stage of the research programme is submission of your DPhil thesis, which needs to be done within four years.
Your thesis is assessed by two independent experts (one of which will be external to the University of Oxford), who conduct a viva examination with you.
Approximately 80% of the department’s alumni who completed in the years 2015 to 2019 have pursued a career within academic or industrial research.
Other graduates hold positions within a variety of different sectors including Patent Law, Management Consultancy, scientific publishing and teaching.
Please note that entrance is very competitive and most successful applicants have a first-class degree.
A previous master's degree is not required in order to be considered for the programme.
For applicants with a degree from the USA, the minimum overall GPA that is normally required to meet the undergraduate-level requirement is 3.5 out of 4.0.
The main round of interviews is held in January.
Additional interviews may be held at later dates subject to the availability of places.
Applications are reviewed by a panel of academics associated with the course.
A short-list of applicants is confirmed, based on assessment of achieved or predicted undergraduate degree grade, academic references, personal statement and CV.
Interviews are in person or by video link, take approximately 30 minutes, and are conducted by a panel of at least two interviewers.
Applicants are asked to talk about any research project(s) that they may have pursued and questioned on aspects of their research training to date, understanding of the proposed area of study and motivation for undertaking a DPhil.
The Department of Biochemistry comprises over 45 research groups and around 400 researchers and support staff, including approximately 100 graduate students.
The Department of Biochemistry is a vibrant research and teaching department and benefits from state-of-the-art research facilities in its stunning purpose-built building.
These include advanced fluorescence microscopy , advanced proteomics , NMR spectroscopy , molecular biophysics , cryo-electron microscopy , and crystallography .
Research in the department is very broad and encompasses all aspects of modern molecular and cellular biochemistry, from atomic resolution biophysics to cell biology and imaging.
The quality of research is outstanding, as demonstrated by an impressive publications output and the international standing of many of the department's researchers.
The following colleges accept students on the DPhil in Biochemistry:
Balliol College Brasenose College Campion Hall Christ Church Corpus Christi College Exeter College Green Templeton College Hertford College Jesus College Lady Margaret Hall Linacre College Lincoln College Magdalen College Merton College New College Oriel College Pembroke College The Queen's College Reuben College St Anne's College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Edmund Hall St Hilda's College St Hugh's College St John's College St Peter's College Somerville College Trinity College University College Wadham College Wolfson College Worcester College Wycliffe Hall
Before you begin an application, we recommend that you consult the Medical Sciences Graduate School's website to identify the most suitable course for your intended area of research.
You can use our interactive tool to help you evaluate whether your application is likely to be competitive .
We welcome and strongly encourage you to contact potential supervisors that you are interested in working with.
The purpose of contacting a supervisor is to learn more about the project and/or lab and determine whether there would be a good fit between what you are looking for and what the lab can offer.
To contact supervisors, begin by looking through the academic profiles and available projects on the department website and identify supervisors you may be interested in working with.
Send an email to these potential supervisors indicating that you are interested in applying for a DPhil in their lab.
You should explain why you are interested in their project/lab and include any questions you may have about it.
Further advice on how to contact potential supervisors can be found on the How to find a research supervisor page of the application 'How-to guide' .
If you do not receive a response after two weeks, please send a follow-up email to [email protected] .
We encourage you to contact more than one supervisor.
Under 'Proposed field and title of research project' enter the advertised research project codes of at least one, and up to three chosen supervisors.
You should list them in order of preference or indicate equal preference.
The project code is shown when you expand the section beneath each supervisor's name on the department's webpage.
You should not use this field to provide your own research proposal.
Under 'Proposed supervisor name' enter the names of at least one, and up to three, academics who you would like to supervise your research.
The supervisors that you choose should correspond with the projects that you indicated in the previous section.
References should generally be academic though a maximum of one professional reference is acceptable where you have completed an industrial placement or worked in a full-time position.
You should provide a statement of your research interests, in English, describing how your background and research interests relate to the programme.
It will be normal for students’ ideas and goals to change in some ways as they undertake their studies, but your personal statement will enable you to demonstrate your current interests and aspirations.
The statement should focus on academic or research-related achievements and interests rather than personal achievements and interests.
This course is offered by the Department of Biochemistry
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 613210

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/msc-research-biochemistry:
This programme aims to train you in cutting-edge laboratory research applying techniques in bionanotechnology, biophysics, computational biology, microscopy, molecular biology, structural biology and systems biology to a broad range of fields including cell biology, chromosome biology, drug discovery, epigenetics, host-pathogen interactions, membrane proteins, ion channels and transporters, and RNA biology.
You will be admitted directly to a particular research area led by departmental members who will be appointed MSc by Research supervisors.
Students who have been admitted to a particular research supervisor will not normally do laboratory rotations.
There are no taught courses examined by written papers, but you will have access to a wide range of lecture courses at foundation or preliminary level, as appropriate.
If you have changed fields, this will enable you to fill in gaps in your background knowledge.
The MSc by Research in Biochemistry is normally a two year course, though if you have an appropriate background in research, you may be able to complete it in one year.
You will also have access to:
You will begin your course as a probationary research student and near the end of your first year you will apply to transfer to MSc by Research status.
This involves writing a short report on your research progress and statement of future research plans and giving a presentation.
If you wish, you may attempt to transfer to DPhil status instead of MSc by Research status at the end of your first year.
To transfer to DPhil status, you are required to follow the same procedure as probationary research students on the DPhil in Biochemistry and must have supporting statements from your supervisor(s) and college.
The length of the programme depends on the following factors as judged by your supervisor(s) and assessors:
The final stage of the research programme is submission of your MSc thesis, which needs to be done within three years.
A previous master's degree is not required in order to be considered for the programme.
For applicants with a degree from the USA, the minimum overall GPA that is normally required to meet the undergraduate-level requirement is 3.5 out of 4.0.
Interviews are in person or by video link, take approximately 30 minutes, and are conducted by a panel of two or more interviewers.
Applicants are asked to talk about any research project(s) that they may have pursued and questioned on aspects of their research training to date, understanding of the proposed area of study and motivation for undertaking a research degree.
The following colleges accept students on the MSc by Research in Biochemistry:
Balliol College Corpus Christi College Exeter College Green Templeton College Hertford College Jesus College Lady Margaret Hall Linacre College Lincoln College Magdalen College Merton College New College Oriel College Pembroke College The Queen's College Reuben College St Anne's College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Edmund Hall St Hilda's College St Hugh's College St John's College St Peter's College Somerville College University College Wadham College Wolfson College Worcester College Wycliffe Hall
Send an email to these potential supervisors indicating that you are interested in applying for a research project in their lab.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-biochemistry-outsri:
The Skaggs-Oxford Programme is a joint five-year programme in biology or chemistry at Scripps Research based in either La Jolla, California or Jupiter, Florida, and the Department of Biochemistry at the University of Oxford, leading to the award of a joint PhD/DPhil degree.
The joint Skaggs-Oxford Programme permits highly qualified students to gain a broader and deeper interdisciplinary research experience than is possible from a single institution's doctoral programme.
It provides diversity in curriculum, scientific approaches and research training, with access to facilities and expertise at both  the University of Oxford and Scripps Research.
It also offers the experience of the distinct cultures of the United States and the United Kingdom.
You will have the option of beginning the full programme of study either at Oxford or at Scripps Research.
You can choose from a wide range of research areas covered by the University of Oxford's Department of Biochemistry and Scripps Research's Departments of Chemistry, Immunology and Microbiology, Integrative Structural and Computational Biology, Molecular Medicine, and Neuroscience.
Research areas include: ageing, cancer biology, cell biology, chemical biology, chromosome biology, chemical synthesis, drug discovery and vaccine design, epigenetics, host-pathogen interactions, infectious diseases (such as HIV, Ebola and Zika), innate and responsive immune systems, medicinal chemistry, membrane proteins, neural stem cell behaviour and development of the brain and sensory organs, ion channels and transporters, and RNA biology.
Whilst working on your research project you will participate in a comprehensive, flexible skills training programme which includes a range of workshops and seminars in transferable skills, generic research skills and specific research techniques.
There are also numerous seminars and lectures by local and visiting scientists, which bring students together with academic and other research staff in the department to hear about on-going research, and provide an opportunity for networking and socialising.
You will be required to carry out research for a minimum of two years at Oxford.
There is the possibility to use facilities outside of the Biochemistry department in other departments across the division and to access remote facilities at the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, DIAMOND Light Source and Harwell Science and Innovation Campus.
For this course, the allocation of graduate supervision is the responsibility of the University of Oxford's Department of Biochemistry and Scripps Research.
Please note that it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
If you begin your programme of study at Oxford, you will start your course as a probationary research student (PRS) and apply to transfer to DPhil (PhD) status near the end of your first year.
Your application to transfer will involve you writing a research report and statement of future research plans.
If you begin your programme of study at Scripps Research, you will also start your course as a probationary research student (PRS).
You will be required to undertake a sequence of taught coursework in connection with your proposed field of research, unless you are granted an exemption in recognition of study and examinations previously undertaken.
Courses are graded based on written assignments and a final written exam.
You will typically apply to transfer to DPhil (PhD) status near the end of your second year.
After three years of study you will need to apply formally to confirm your DPhil (PhD) status.
The application is assessed by two experts.
The final stage of the research programme is submission of your DPhil thesis, which needs to be done within five years.
Your thesis is assessed by two independent experts (one from Oxford and one who is external to the University of Oxford and Scripps Research) and your Thesis Committee at Scripps Research, who conduct a viva examination with you.
Successful candidates are awarded a degree certificate from Scripps Research and the University of Oxford.
They are invited to attend ceremonies at both institutions.
The majority of alumni go on to pursue a career within academic or industrial research.
Your application will initially be assessed by Scripps Research against the 'Admission Guidelines' published on the Scripps Research website .
If your application passes this initial assessment, you will be invited to submit an application to the University of Oxford (please refer to the How to Apply section of this page for further details).
A successful application to the University of Oxford is a requirement of entry to this course.
Your application to the University of Oxford will be assessed against the entry requirements shown below, alongside applicants to the DPhil in Biochemistry .
An interview with the University of Oxford will be conducted following your application to the University of Oxford and if successful a second interview will take place with Scripps Research.
Interviews are in person or by video link and are conducted by a panel of at least two interviewers.
Following a successful interview with the University of Oxford, shortlisted candidates will be interviewed separately by Scripps Research in the final stage of the application process.
For the duration of the US based part of the programme, students are provided with an annual stipend of $45,760 (correct for the 2024-25 academic year for students studying at Scripps Research, La Jolla, California).
Tuition fees will be paid in full on the student’s behalf by Scripps Research.
Full funding (stipend and fees) is provided to UK and Overseas students for the duration of the Oxford based part of the programme.
Students will receive an annual living costs grant, which is currently £23,955 for the 2024-25 academic year.
Course fees at the University of Oxford will be paid in full on the student’s behalf by the University of Oxford.
For this course, the period of fee liability will vary depending on which institution you commence your studies.
If you begin this course at the Scripps Institute, you will usually be liable for three years of tuition fees at the Scripps Research fee rate, followed by two years of fees at the University of Oxford fee rate.
If you begin this course at the University of Oxford, you will usually be liable for three years of course fees at the University of Oxford fee rate, followed by two years of fees at the Scripps Research fee rate.
The Scripps Research website provides information about fees payable at Scripps Research California Campus .
Please note that the estimated living costs above are for study in the UK at the University of Oxford.
You are advised to contact Scripps Research using the details on their website for information about living costs while studying at the Scripps Research Institute.
The following colleges accept students on the DPhil in Biochemistry (Skaggs-Oxford Programme):
The first stage of admission to the Skaggs-Oxford Programme is administered by Scripps Research.
You should visit the Scripps website for application instructions and deadline information .
To apply and for further details about the course you are advised to contact Scripps Research using the details on their website .
Your application will be initially assessed by Scripps Research against the 'Admission Guidelines' published on the Scripps Research website .
If your application passes this initial assessment, you will be invited to submit an application to the University of Oxford using the standard graduate application procedure.
The application fee of £20, which is usually payable per course application, will be waived for all applications to this course.
When you submit your application you will not be shown the screen that collects payment details and you will not need to enter a waiver code.
You must first apply to Scripps Research by the deadline shown in the Scripps application instructions .
How to Apply to Scripps Apply to Scripps
If your application has passed the initial assessment by Scripps Research , you will be invited to complete an application to the University of Oxford.
Only candidates who have been invited to proceed should submit an application to the University of Oxford.
Under 'Proposed field and title of research project' enter the advertised research project code of your chosen supervisors in order of preference or indicating equal preference.
For a list of project codes visit the department's website.
You do not need to add your referees to your application as the department will receive these from Scripps Research.
Please enter Referee1 ( [email protected] ), Referee2 ( [email protected] ) and Referee3 ( [email protected] ) in the referees section and tick the boxes to confirm that you are happy for the referees to be contacted.
This should enable you to submit your application.
A personal statement is required and must be in English.
You can re-use the statement provided in your Scripps Research application.
On rare occasions, written work may be requested from some applicants.
You will be notified by the department and given more details of the assignment if it is required.
Refer to Scripps Research website for admission status of Stage 1 applications
Applicants who are successful at Stage 1 will be invited to submit a Stage 2 application
Refer to Scripps Research website for deadline
If your application has passed the initial assessment by Scripps Research, you will be invited to apply to the University of Oxford and will be provided with a deadline.
*Admissions for this course are co-managed with Scripps Research, La Jolla, California and Jupiter, Florida, USA.
This course is jointly offered by the University's Department of Biochemistry and Scripps Research in La Jolla, California and Jupiter, Florida, USA

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/msc-biodiversity-conservation-nature-recovery:
The MSc in Biodiversity, Conservation, and Nature Recovery (BCNR) provides students with the knowledge and skills to think adaptively, creatively, and critically at the intersection of biodiversity science, policy and action.
Formerly titled Biodiversity, Conservation, and Management (BCM), this newly designed course retains its established strengths in conservation science and governance, while embracing ambitious, holistic and inclusive approaches to nature recovery and promoting the use of multiple values of nature and diverse knowledge systems.
Based in the School of Geography and the Environment, BCNR also benefits from close connections to the Leverhulme Centre for Nature Recovery.
The course aims are to:
The course teaching and assessment is structured to ensure that students develop the knowledge and professional skills that are likely to benefit them when applying for jobs in the field of conservation after graduation.
Teaching approaches, including active and outdoor learning, and the modes of assessment, including oral and written tasks, have been designed to provide a more inclusive and productive learning environment.
Upon completion of BCNR, students will be able to:
The course is delivered through eight core modules delivered during the first two terms:
Teaching for the core modules includes lectures, seminars, workshops, reading groups, field trips and study days.
There is also a skills-based module to develop research and professional skills.
Alongside the core modules in the first two terms, you will choose two elective modules.
The elective modules offer a tutorial- style teaching environment with smaller groups, based on a suite of contemporary research themes that reflect the specific interests of core faculty and visiting research associates.
The teaching aim is to foster discussion and debate between academic staff and students.
In the final term of the course, you will undertake an independent and original research project.
In addition to BCNR teaching, students are expected to attend seminars organised by the Leverhulme Centre for Nature Recovery and other research clusters in the School of Geography and the Environment including Biodiversity, Ecosystems and Conservation, Climate Systems, Landscape Dynamics, and Environmental Interactions.
The University of Oxford has an extensive library system and the Radcliffe Science Library is the main lending service within the University for the material required for the course.
The Social Sciences Library also holds collections which are valuable for students pursuing geography courses.
There is a dedicated social space for MSc students where they can meet and discuss their studies.
Where appropriate, students can use the departmental laboratories for their dissertation research.
The course has an Academic Director and a Course Director who look after the day-to-day running of the course and who provide academic welfare support.
The MSc Course Director acts as study supervisor for students throughout their studies.
In addition, in the third term when students commence their dissertation research, a research supervisor will usually be found within the School of Geography and the Environment.
For this course, the allocation of graduate supervision is the responsibility of the School of Geography and the Environment and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the School of Geography and the Environment.
During the dissertation project, students typically receive 8 hours of supervision.
The course is comprised of nine summative assessment tasks that use a diverse range of methods including a conference paper, oral presentations, a viva, a field trip report, briefing notes, a written examination and a research paper.
The assessment is organised into three portfolios (Foundations, Applications, and Research) which are due at different stages over the course of the year.
The aim of the course is to train future leaders in conservation and nature recovery.
Past graduates have gone on to obtain positions in a range of leading conservation and academic organisations and enterprises.
Examples include policy positions in government departments, management positions in global conservation NGOs, technical positions in sustainability consultancies, and expert roles in international bodies.
A significant number of students also use the course as a gateway to start DPhil (PhD) research.
The department's Alumni Office helps alumni keep in touch with each other and organises alumni events.
For applicants with a bachelor's degree from the USA, the minimum overall GPA that is normally required to meet the undergraduate-level requirement is 3.6 out of 4.0
The School of Geography and the Environment undertakes world-class interdisciplinary research, addresses societal and environmental problems, and advances knowledge within an intellectually vibrant, interdisciplinary research environment that combines natural and social sciences and has geography at its core.
With over 200 graduate students from a range of nationalities, professional and disciplinary backgrounds, the School of Geography and the Environment at Oxford is one of the largest, most diverse and vibrant in the world.
Researchers work across many ﬁelds within the School of Geography and the Environment.
Many are based in our three research centres: the Environmental Change Institute, Smith School of Enterprise and Environment, and the Transport Studies Unit.
The school offers a number of graduate courses, ensuring that a suitable opportunity exists at Oxford regardless of whether you are planning a career in research, teaching or an environment-related profession, preparing for a career change or to take a career break.
There are several one-year MSc courses combining taught course modules with a dissertation.
These courses offer a framework of core lectures, field courses, electives, and workshops and symposia for learning.
Individual classes reflect the research interests of individual faculty and often mix seminar style teaching with discussions or practical exercises.
The DPhil is an advanced research degree which involves three to four years of full-time original, independent research or a part-time pathway which involves six to eight years of research.
Research is supported in key areas of environmental, human and physical geography, from studies on migration, geopolitics, cultural diversity, biogeography, climate change, flood risk, desertification and many other areas.
The department has study spaces available to DPhil research students, a common room for students on taught MSc courses and a computer room available for all graduate students.
">Video of Student Insights - DPhil in Geography and the Environment
Most costs associated with compulsory fieldwork are paid for by the department.
This excludes the costs associated with obtaining the appropriate visa required to attend the non-UK based field trips.
Non-EEA nationals might require a visa in order to travel to the country where the field trip is being held and any costs associated with obtaining the appropriate travel visa is the responsibility of the student.
Students will also have to pay for some meals during the field course.
Furthermore, as part of your course requirements you need to develop and research a dissertation topic.
Depending on your choice of topic and the field work research required to complete it, you may incur additional costs (eg relating to travel, accommodation, field assistants, lab fees and/or research visas).
You will need to meet these additional costs, although you may be able to apply for small grants/bursaries from your department and/or college to help you cover some of these expenses.
The following colleges accept students on the MSc in Biodiversity, Conservation and Nature Recovery:
Blackfriars Brasenose College Campion Hall Christ Church Green Templeton College Hertford College Jesus College Kellogg College Lady Margaret Hall Linacre College Magdalen College Mansfield College Oriel College The Queen's College Regent's Park College Reuben College St Anne's College St Antony's College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Edmund Hall St Hilda's College St Peter's College Somerville College Wolfson College Worcester College Wycliffe Hall
Your references will support your academic achievements, interests, and personal motivation.
In order to assist assessors in their consideration of applications references should be from experienced scholars and teachers of graduate students.
In view of this, it is recommended that at least two of the three references are from academics.
Your statement should focus on the subject area rather than personal achievements, interests and aspirations.
This might be demonstrated by, for example, having undertaken independent fieldwork or research, vacation employment in a relevant discipline, or having already made research publications or presentations.
If you have already graduated, at least some of the time since graduation should have been spent on activities related to the proposed course of study, or a sound reason why this is not the case should be given.
The written work must be in English and can be an essay you have written, a chapter of  a thesis, a published scholarly paper or even academic work written specifically to support your application.
This work should demonstrate your ability to write a good academic document and, where possible, it should be related to the proposed area of study.
An extract of the requisite length from longer work is permissible.
This will be assessed for evidence of good basic knowledge, understanding of problems, powers of analysis, ability to construct a coherent train of thought, and to shape an argument, and powers of expression.
The quality of English expression and of presentation may also be part of the assessment.
Students with disclosed disabilities will receive appropriate consideration according to their particular needs.
*Three-year average (applications for entry in 2022-23 to 2024-25, when the course was offered as MSc Biodiversity, Conservation and Management)
This course is offered by the School of Geography and Environment

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-biology:
The Department of Biology offers a broad range of research opportunities for graduate students.
The department maintains a large and interactive group of around 200 DPhil students.
As a doctoral student, your primary focus will be your research, which will be conducted within one or more of the existing research groups.
You will be expected to develop an original research project under the guidance of your academic supervisors and normally on a topic related to their areas of expertise.
In addition, you will be encouraged to make the most of the doctoral training and research methods provision available across the Mathematical, Physical and Life Sciences Division.
Doctoral research projects can be based on fieldwork (sometimes in remote places), laboratory experiments, analysis of existing data sets, or mathematical theory, but in all cases must be original and rigorous, leading to publications in peer-reviewed scientific journals.
The majority of your time will, therefore, be spent in independent self-directed research and will involve a mixture of experimental, computational and observational activities.
You will be part of a vibrant educational research community that includes an active set of doctoral student-led events, seminars and workshops.
You will have the opportunity to present and discuss your work in progress with your supervisor, other faculty members and peers, informally day-to-day and by attending a variety of seminars and workshops in the department and at conferences elsewhere.
The department has a friendly graduate community which provides a welcoming network to new students.
The graduate student community offers a supportive environment, both social and scientific, allowing new graduates to develop into well-rounded and confident scientists.
Graduates are a valued part of the department's research community and their work is showcased annually at the departmental Graduate Symposium.
The Department of Biology offers students access to desk space, research laboratories, and field research facilities.
Most students will be based in the Life and Mind Building, but some research groups are based at the Peter Medawar Building for Pathogen Research, the John Krebs Field Station, or the Wildlife Conservation Research Unit.
Many groups in the department also conduct research at field sites in the UK and overseas.
The allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of the Department of Biology and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances, a supervisor may be found outside the Department of Biology.
As a graduate student you will be embedded in the research groups of two or more members of academic staff who act as your supervisors and provide the bulk of the research guidance and training.
Most students have the opportunity to meet with their supervisor weekly or fortnightly to discuss their progress and developments in the field.
However, this frequency may vary depending on the area of research, the nature of your project, and the stage of your studies.
Within a maximum of six terms as a PRS student, you will be expected to apply for transfer of status from Probationer Research Student to DPhil status.
This application is normally made by the fourth term.
A successful transfer of status from PRS to DPhil status will require a report that will consist of an introductory part that could become the introduction to the thesis, one rather well-worked analysis of preliminary data representing roughly the equivalent of one thesis chapter, and a plan for the other chapters in the thesis including a detailed timetable.
This will need to done within nine terms of admission.
Students will be expected to submit a substantial thesis of up to 50,000 words after three or, at most, four years from the date of admission.
To be successfully awarded a DPhil in Biology you will need to defend your thesis orally ( viva voce ) in front of two appointed examiners.
The DPhil in Biology is a new course, replacing the DPhil in Plant Sciences and the DPhil in Zoology.
100% of alumni from the DPhil in Plant Sciences are employed, across a wide range of sectors, with 60% working in academic research positions.
The department retains contact with its alumni to find out what they have gone on to do after completing their course.
Past students from the Department of Plant Sciences have gone on to careers both in the UK and other countries in teaching and research in schools, universities, policy for government departments, industry, and administration at local and national levels.
Zoology graduates, like DPhil graduates in biological sciences at Oxford as a whole, continue to a wide range of careers after graduating.
Between 2012 and 2017, 83% of DPhil graduates continued in bioscience-related posts, of which almost three quarters involved academic research.
Admission to the DPhil in Biology does not normally require a master's level qualification.
Applicants will be selected for interview based on the aforementioned criteria.
Interviews will normally be held within four weeks of the application deadline and will either be in person or by remote video conferencing.
The interview will be up to 30 minutes and will involve a ten minute presentation by the applicant on a suitable topic.
Interviewees will be expected to answer questions based upon their presentation but potentially covering other relevant topics.
Answers should demonstrate general knowledge, understanding of and enthusiasm for a particular area of research, competence in presentation skills and the English language, and where appropriate, numeracy in the treatment of biological data.
Other indicators will include suitability in terms of skill base and academic background for the DPhil in question, ability to discuss fundamental aspects of the relevant field in adequate depth and reasoning ability when answering biological questions.
The Department of Biology is one of the leading UK university departments dedicated to research and teaching in biology, possessing world-class strengths across the breadth of modern biological science research.
The department’s research is organised into five sections:
There is considerable overlap between these sections, with many members of the department working in more than one section, and many research projects that cut across section boundaries.
Indeed, a key characteristic of the department is that it works as a well-integrated whole with collaborations developing naturally between researchers working on diverse topics.
The Department of Biology has research strengths spanning from evolution to ecology, behaviour to biomechanics, and development to disease.
Researchers in the department work on wide range of organisms, including plants, animals and microbes.
This diversity of research interests is reflected in the wide range of research facilities that are used by members of the department, including labs that are for cell and molecular biology, controlled growth facilities, field stations, and unique plant collections.
Many of our students also carry out field work at in locations ranging from the Amazon rainforest to the Antarctic.
Within the department are several research institutes, including the Edward Grey Institute (EGI), the Wildlife Conservation Research Unit (WildCRU) , the Interdisciplinary Centre for Conservation Science (ICCS), and the Ineos Oxford Institute for Antimicrobial Research (IOI).
In 2025, the Department of Biology is moving into the new Life and Mind Building.
The Life and Mind Building will transform the education experience for students, providing new laboratories and meeting spaces for undergraduates, postgraduates and researchers, as well as lecture theatres, specialised support laboratories and opportunities for public engagement with our research.
It will be the largest building project the University has ever undertaken and will be a catalyst for the advancement of psychological and biological science both at the University of Oxford and on a global platform.
There are several routes into undertaking your doctoral research at the department.
You may apply directly to either the DPhil in Biology or the MSc by Research in Biology.
Alternatively, you may apply to one of the University’s Doctoral Training Programmes .
The latter are often fully-funded, four-year graduate training programmes which involve a training period of taught courses for around three to six months before deciding on a DPhil project.
Applicants are encouraged to consider both entry routes.
The following colleges accept students on this course:
Balliol College Brasenose College Campion Hall Christ Church Green Templeton College Hertford College Jesus College Keble College Kellogg College Lady Margaret Hall Linacre College Lincoln College Magdalen College Merton College New College Pembroke College The Queen's College Reuben College St Anne's College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Edmund Hall St Hilda's College St Hugh's College St John's College St Peter's College Somerville College Wadham College Wolfson College Worcester College
Before you apply, you will need to identify the areas of research that interest you and a named potential supervisor(s) within the Department of Biology.
You will need to research the profiles of the departments’ academics .
Once you have identified a potential supervisor(s), you must contact them prior to applying to discuss potential projects and funding routes.
Under 'Proposed supervisor name' enter the name of one academic who you would like to supervise your research.
If your proposed research is likely to involve more than one academic, you can enter up to four names in the research proposal.
Your references will used to help assessment of your intellectual ability, academic achievement, motivation and research potential.
In this context, references from academics able to comment on your performance on previous university courses are particular relevant.
However, one or more references from previous research projects, industrial placements or other relevant professional activities are equally welcome.
Please provide a cogent personal statement, written in English, arguing why you should be considered for the DPhil based on your previous experience and career goals.
The personal statement will also be assessed for evidence of motivation, of understanding of the proposed field of study (both broadly and in the specific project area being considered), and of your ability to present a reasoned argument in English.
Describe a current research problem within the remit of the DPhil in Biology, briefly indicate the information required to solve it and suggest a line of research that, if conducted, could fill this knowledge gap.
No bibliography is required but if one is included, it must be counted in the word limit.
This course will be offered by the new Department of Biology

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/msc-research-biology:
The MSc by Research in Biology provides opportunities for graduates to develop knowledge, understanding and expertise in their chosen field of biology, beyond the level of a taught master’s degree, but without conducting as much research as a doctoral student.
This programme offers advanced training in the latest research approaches whilst conducting independent research in your chosen field of biology, giving you the preparation and expertise required to bridge the gap between a taught degree and a DPhil/PhD or employment.
Research projects must be original and rigorous, and can be based on fieldwork (sometimes in remote places), laboratory experiments, analysis of existing data sets, or mathematical theory.
The majority of your time will be spent in independent self-directed research and will involve a mixture of experimental, computational and observational activities.
As an MSc by Research student, your primary focus will be your research, which will be conducted with one or more of the existing research groups.
Depending upon your research, you may work with different research groups within the Department of Biology and with collaborators in other departments or institutions.
You will be part of a vibrant educational research community that includes an active set of graduate student-led events, seminars and workshops.
In addition, you will be encouraged to make the most of the graduate training and research methods provision available across the Mathematical, Physical and Life Sciences Division.
Most students will be based in the Life and Mind Building, but some research groups are based at the Peter Medawar Building for Pathogen Research, the John Krebs Field Station.
Within a maximum of four terms as a PRS student (and normally by the third term), you will be expected to apply for transfer of status from Probationer Research Student to MSc by Research status.
A successful transfer of status from PRS to MSc by Research status will require a report that will consist of an introductory part that could become the introduction to the thesis, one rather well-worked analysis of preliminary data representing roughly the equivalent of one thesis chapter, and a reasonably detailed plan for the other chapters in the thesis.
The transfer of status milestone will normally involve a structured discussion with two assessors (not your supervisor(s)) that will also provide you with formative advice and a useful experience for the final oral ( viva voce ) examination.
You will be expected to submit a substantial thesis of up to 25,000 words, after two years from the date of admission.
To be successfully awarded a MSc by Research in Biology you will need to defend your thesis orally ( viva voce ) in front of two appointed examiners.
The MSc by Research in Biology is a new course, providing an alternative graduate research degree in Biology from the DPhil in Biology.
The DPhil in Biology replaced the DPhil in Plant Sciences and the DPhil in Zoology in 2022.
Interviews will normally be held within eight weeks of the application deadline and will either be in person or online.
Other indicators will include suitability in terms of skill base and academic background for the course in question, ability to discuss fundamental aspects of the relevant field in adequate depth and reasoning ability when answering biological questions.
Please note that the application deadline for this course is after the standard December and January funding deadlines, and applicants to this course are therefore ineligible for consideration for centrally-managed scholarships.
You must enter the project you are applying to under 'Field and title of research project' on the 'Course' tab of the application form.
The personal statement will be assessed for evidence of motivation, of understanding of the proposed field of study (both broadly and in the specific project area being considered), and of your ability to present a reasoned argument in English.
Describe a current research problem within the remit of the MSc by Research in Biology, briefly indicate the information required to solve it and suggest a line of research that, if conducted, could fill this knowledge gap.
† Included in 2025-26 places for the DPhil in Biology *First year of admissions (applications for entry in 2025-26)

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-biomedical-and-clinical-sciences:
The DPhil in Biomedical and Clinical Sciences (Oxford-GSK) aims to address an unmet need among clinicians for training in data science and translational medicine.
The course provides a unique opportunity for clinical academics to gain early-career experience in an industry-sponsored translational medicine programme.
This course is also known as the Oxford-GSK Doctoral Training Fellowship and is funded by GSK (GlaxoSmithKline Plc).
It is aimed at fully-qualified medical doctors who are, or are eligible to be, registered clinical practitioners with the UK General Medical Council (GMC).
To apply to this course you must be medically-qualified and eligible to undertake clinical practice in the UK (having General Medical Council registration or proven eligibility for registration).
You should have clinical experience at ST4+ level or equivalent, typically having obtained MRCP or equivalent, but not CCT or consultant status (see Entry requirements for further details).
The therapeutic areas focused on will be:
You will receive dedicated training in data science via the Oxford Biomedical Data Science Training Programme (OBDS).
Specific data science skills will be determined by individual projects, but it is expected that on graduation you will:
It is expected that the focus of projects will be the collection, analysis and interpretation of multi-omic data, with the leveraging of existing departmental infrastructure and personnel to support any laboratory work.
Projects will focus on a patient-centric approach to understanding disease endotypes and mechanisms of disease, thus enhancing future patient stratification and precision medicine strategies in drug development.
High level examples of potential projects can be found on the Medical Sciences Doctoral Training website.
Students will have a salaried employment contract with the University of Oxford for the three-year duration of the course.
This means that students will have two contracts, both lasting three years:
Each of the two contracts is conditional upon the other – if one ends for any reason then the other will normally end too.
So, for example, if the student contract terminates before the scheduled expiry of the three years (eg because the student has failed to pass a required academic assessment/exam or as a result of a finding that the student has committed a serious breach of the Student Disciplinary Code) the employment contract will normally terminate, and vice versa.
(In some cases, if a student is close to submission of final assessments but three years have elapsed, the student contract may be extended to enable them to finish, though the employment contract would not normally be extended in these circumstances.)
Successful applicants will be offered a salary for three years at band E63/E64 ( details of the current salary scales can be found on the Finance Division website).
The salary offered will reflect the applicant’s existing seniority, with consideration of the BMA’s published salary scales for resident doctors in the NHS (and for applicants from outside the UK there will be a similar consideration of the applicant’s seniority).
Successful applicants’ University tuition fees will be fully funded at the Home fee rate.
Overseas students will need to pay the difference between Home fee rate and Overseas fee rate, or arrange new third-party funding themselves to cover this.
It is a pre-condition of commencing the course that the applicant must be entitled to both study and work in the UK.
Applicants from overseas will need to have an appropriate visa by the point that the course commences, and if such a visa cannot be obtained then the offer will be withdrawn.
If students wish to maintain eligibility to practice with the GMC, they should arrange a separate contract with the NHS to enable them to continue clinical practice (while ensuring they dedicate most of their working time to their studies/work for the University).
Where applicable, it is the student’s responsibility to arrange this.
Further information about this course and employment aspects can also be found on the department's website.
Each project will include close working with GSK, which may require travel to and attendance at GSK offices in Stevenage, UK.
In addition to the University-wide resources described above, you will have access to experimental facilities appropriate to your research and library services such as the Radcliffe Science Library and the Cairns Library .
The provision of project-specific resources will be agreed with the relevant supervisor during the planning stages for the research project.
For this course, the allocation of graduate supervision is the responsibility of the Medical Sciences Doctoral Training Centre, and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Medical Sciences Doctoral Training Centre and/or closely-related departments.
Supervision will include relevant therapeutic and data science expertise, with representation from both Oxford and GSK.
Students are expected to meet with their supervisors at least once a fortnight, on average, across a year.
Within a maximum of four terms as a PRS student you will be expected to apply for transfer of status from Probationer Research Student to DPhil status.
A successful transfer of status from PRS to DPhil status will require the submission of a report on progress to date on research and future plans.
You will be expected to submit an original thesis of up to 50,000 words after three or, at most, four years from the date of admission.
To be successfully awarded a DPhil in Biomedical and Clinical Sciences (Oxford GSK) you will need to defend your thesis orally (viva voce) in front of two appointed examiners.
Most Biomedical and Clinical Sciences graduates continue in academic research in prestigious laboratories worldwide.
It is desirable that applicants hold a first-class or strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours (including intercalated) in an applied experimental science subject.
For applicants with a bachelor's degree from the USA, the minimum overall GPA that is normally required to meet the undergraduate-level requirement is 3.5 out of 4.0.
To be eligible to apply, it is essential that candidates:
It is also desirable that candidates have:
Applications are reviewed by a panel of academics associated with the course and a representative from GSK.
A short-list of applicants is confirmed, based on assessment of their academic record, academic references, and research experience to date/publication record.
By preference, interviews will be conducted in person, but when this is not possible, candidates will be interviewed via telephone or video link and it will be ensured that applicants are not disadvantaged by using these forms of communication.
It is expected that the ratio of interviewed candidates to places will be around 3:1.
The Medical Sciences Doctoral Training Centre (MSDTC) accommodates the interdisciplinary, cross-departmental DPhil programmes in medical sciences.
Several are structured DPhil programmes, which provide students with the opportunity to undertake two or three 'rotation' projects and relevant course work in their first year of each four-year structured programme.
The main doctoral project starts in the second year of such programmes.
Other programmes are wholly research based, allowing students to take a research project from the initial proposal through to submitting their thesis.
Most of our programmes receive external core-funding, for example from Cancer Research UK, GSK, and EPSRC.
The MSDTC also accommodates the DPhil in Cancer Science programme funded by CRUK which welcomes applications from clinicians, basic scientists, and medical undergraduates, and the DPhil in Healthcare Data Science (EPSRC CDT), a four-year doctoral cohort-based training programme offering opportunities for doctoral study in computational statistics, machine learning, data engineering and infectious disease analytics.
In 2025 the DPhil in Biomedical and Clinical Sciences (Oxford-GSK) was launched to provide a unique opportunity for clinical academics to gain early-career experience in industry-sponsored translational medicine.
Each programme has a distinctive intellectual flavour, designed to nurture independent and creative scientists.
Students are supported in their development through:
All students will have a salaried employment contract with the University of Oxford for the three-year duration of the course.
Please refer to the About the course section of the page for further details about the student and employment contracts.
Further information about the funding and employment aspects of this course can also be found on the department's website.
The following colleges accept students on the DPhil in Biomedical and Clinical Sciences (Oxford-GSK):
Balliol College Brasenose College Campion Hall Exeter College Green Templeton College Harris Manchester College Hertford College Jesus College Keble College Kellogg College Lady Margaret Hall Linacre College Lincoln College Magdalen College Merton College New College Oriel College Pembroke College The Queen's College Reuben College St Anne's College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Edmund Hall St Hilda's College St Hugh's College St John's College St Peter's College Somerville College Trinity College Wadham College Wolfson College Worcester College
This course is not using a standard application deadline.
The Admission status indicator will provide up to one week's notice of the deadline, so please check this regularly.
You do not need to make contact with the department before you apply.
As part of your application, you will provide details of your preferred research theme (following the instructions below) and will first be considered for projects and supervision within this theme.
You may also be considered for projects and supervision in other research themes that align with your academic background.
If you are shortlisted for interview, you will receive details of the project(s) that you are being considered for and the relevant supervisor(s).
At this stage you will be able to rank projects by preference and the panel will endeavour to find the best match between successful applicants and available projects.
Please indicate your preferred research theme from the following therapeutic areas: neurodegeneration, liver fibrosis and respiratory medicine.
Please leave this field blank.
Your references should generally be academic, though professional references are acceptable if they are relevant to the course.
This course is offered by the Medical Sciences Doctoral Training Centre
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 289548
See the application guide

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-biomedical-sciences-nih-ou:
The National Institutes of Health Oxford-Cambridge Scholars Programme (NIH OxCam) is a four-year doctoral programme.
You undertake a collaborative project in biomedical research involving two supervisors - one at an NIH facility in the US and one at either Oxford or Cambridge.
Please note that it is a requirement of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), that all applicants to this course should be a U.S.
citizen or permanent resident in the U.S.
The NIH OxCam doctoral course was first established in 2001 and is primarily aimed at graduate students from the USA.
You must first apply to the NIH by early December, following which interviews for admission in the following Michaelmas term (October) are held in February in Bethesda, MD by NIH, Oxford and Cambridge University staff.
The course is highly competitive and the approximate number of places available this year is shown in the Key Facts section on this page.
You can also apply to the NIH MD/PhD course.
The selected students are supported financially by the NIH but are full students of the University of Oxford or Cambridge and normally spend half their time in the UK.
At the time of selection to the course, you will not necessarily have decided on your supervisor or even which UK University you will attend.
The information below is applicable to accepted students whose primary UK supervisor is a member of the University of Oxford.
The Director of Graduate Studies for the Oxford-based course is Professor Michael Dustin, and for administrative purposes all NIH-Oxford students are admitted to the Medical Sciences Doctoral Training Centre of the Division of Medical Sciences.
However, NIH OxCam students are not limited to supervisors in the Division of Medical Sciences.
For example, many students have supervisions in the Division of Mathematical, Physical and Life Sciences.
There are also many students who have supervisions in the Division of Mathematical, Physical and Life Sciences.
You should explore all departmental websites to discover the full range of opportunities.
Examples of previous research areas are Neuroscience, Computational Modelling and Immunology.
Students may work with any Oxford/NIH supervisor in any research area and department, as long as the supervisor is willing to host the student in their laboratory.
Students who are selected for the course are full students of the University of Oxford or Cambridge and normally spend half their time in the UK.
At the time of selection to the programme, you will not necessarily have decided on your supervisor or even which UK University you will attend.
You will have access to all the same facilities that are provided to other DPhil students in your Oxford host department.
You should check departmental websites for details.
You will have access to experimental facilities are available as appropriate to the research topic.
The provision of other resources specific to your project should be agreed with your Oxford supervisor as a part of the planning stages of the agreed NIH-Oxford collaboration.
There are a number of workshops that are announced via email and posters throughout the year.
You will have access to the seminars that departments, research groups, or groups with common areas of interest organise.
Medical Grand Rounds are also held in the postgraduate centre at the John Radcliffe Hospital.
Workspace will be allocated according to your individual circumstances.
If undertaking experimental work, you will be provided with bench space in a laboratory.
If undertaking theoretical research, you will have shared office space.
The allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of the Medical Sciences Doctoral Training Centre and/or closely-related departments, and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Each student is expected to have co-supervision, meaning that you should select two Oxford supervisors in addition to the NIH supervisor.
One of the co-supervisors will be designated as the primary supervisor.
You should arrange to meet with your supervisor at least once a fortnight, on average, across a year.
Within a maximum of four terms as a full-time PRS student you will be expected to apply for transfer of status from Probationer Research Student to DPhil status.
A successful transfer of status from PRS to DPhil status will require the submission of a transfer report.
Students who are successful at transfer will also be expected to apply for and gain confirmation of DPhil status to show that their work continues to be on track.
Full-time students are required to submit an original thesis of up to 50,000 words after four years from the date of admission.
To be successfully awarded a DPhil you will need to defend your thesis orally (viva voce) in front of two appointed examiners, one from outside the University of Oxford.
Students follow a wide variety of career paths, including all branches of biomedical research, clinical medicine, teaching, health administration and commerce.
The majority of graduates move to roles in clinical academia.
However, entrance is very competitive and most successful applicants have a first-class degree.
A previous master's degree is not required.
Publications are not required.
Interviews are held in February each year, at the NIH campus in Bethesda, Maryland, USA.
Candidates attend the interviews in person and arrangements are made by the NIH.
The following colleges accept students on the DPhil in Biomedical Sciences (NIH OxCam):
Balliol College Brasenose College Christ Church Corpus Christi College Exeter College Green Templeton College Hertford College Jesus College Keble College Kellogg College Lady Margaret Hall Linacre College Lincoln College Magdalen College Merton College New College Oriel College Pembroke College The Queen's College Reuben College St Anne's College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Edmund Hall St Hilda's College St John's College St Peter's College Somerville College Trinity College University College Wadham College Wolfson College Worcester College Wycliffe Hall
For this course, you must first apply to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) by the deadline shown in the NIH application instructions (usually early December).
Candidates who are accepted onto the programme by NIH (Stage 1) will then be invited to apply to University of Oxford or University of Cambridge (Stage 2), usually by June for entry in October of a given year.
Candidates who are invited to proceed to Stage 2 will not need to go through further interviews or any other competitive process, but will be assigned a college and college advisor.
You are encouraged to contact individual supervisors before you apply.
Email addresses for academic staff can be found on the departmental profile pages.
You must first apply to the NIH by the deadline shown in the NIH application instructions (usually early December).
Please be aware that you will need to meet all the criteria outlined within the NIH instructions , including the requirement to be a U.S.
How to Apply to NIH Apply to NIH
Only candidates who are accepted onto the programme by NIH should proceed to submit an application to the University of Oxford.
Before proceeding, please read the application instructions provided by the department .
Please enter 'NIH-Oxford Scholars Programme' in this field.
Please select 'Other Sources (specify)'.
This will open a new box entitled Please specify funding source, into which you should enter 'NIH-Oxford Scholars Programme'.
Please answer 'Firmly secured' in the Status field.
If you haven't yet decided on an Oxford supervisor, you can list Professor Michael Dustin, Director of the Oxford Programme as your supervisor at this stage in the application process.
You do not need to add your referees to your application as the department will receive these from NIH.
You can re-use the statement provided in your NIH application.
If you have been invited to proceed to the second stage, you can start or return to an application using the relevant link below.
You'll find the answers to most common queries in our FAQs.
Apply to Oxford Continue application
Refer to NIH website for admission status of Stage 1 applications for entry in 2024-25
Refer to NIH application instructions for deadline
Applicants who have been made an offer following the February NIH interviews should immediately apply to the University of Oxford and/or Cambridge.
This course is jointly offered by the University's Medical Sciences Doctoral Training Centre and the NIH in Bethesda, Maryland, USA

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/mphil-buddhist-studies:
This two-year degree aims to introduce you to the study of Buddhism primarily in its diverse Asian forms, give you a comprehensive training in one of the main Buddhist canonical languages, and guide you through in-depth explorations of Buddhist history, philosophy, literature and practice.
This degree can be a standalone qualification or preparation for doctoral research.
You will be requested to select a primary Buddhist canonical language.
The options currently available are Pali, Sanskrit, Classical Tibetan and Classical Chinese.
You may select another of these languages as an optional subject.
The first year focuses on intensive training in all aspects of your chosen language, without presuming previous knowledge of it, and takes advantage of the world class linguistic expertise available at Oxford.
Study of the chosen language is complemented by training in various aspects relevant to the study of Buddhism, including historical, literary, philosophical and ethnographic.
Teaching happens through lectures, seminars and tutorials, utilising the small group practice characteristic of Oxford.
Your training is also supported by a rich provision of visiting lectures, research seminars and workshops.
This solid base of training is built on in the second year with the in-depth study of important Buddhist texts in the original language in which you are specialising and an analytical approach to Buddhist studies as an academic discipline.
You are also required to choose one optional paper.
Possible options are a second primary Buddhist language (Pali, Sanskrit, Tibetan or Chinese) or a paper chosen from a list published annually such as, for example, Buddhist philosophy or Anthropology of Buddhism.
These optional courses are subject to availability of teaching each year.
Oxford has excellent library resources for Buddhist studies, which are kept in collections associated with the different parts of Asia.
For South and Inner Asian studies these resources are supported by the Bodleian Libraries.
The Bodleian Asian and Middle Eastern Collections possesses one of the finest collections of pre-modern South Asian manuscripts in the world.
For East Asian studies, there are, in addition to the main Bodleian collection, special libraries both for Japanese and for Chinese studies.
Other relevant collections are located in the Bodleian Art, Archaeology and Ancient World Library and the Theology Faculty.
Additionally, the Nizami Ganjavi Library at the Faculty of Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies and certain colleges (for example, Wolfson College) also have substantial stocks of books related to Buddhism and primary Buddhist languages.
The Ashmolean Museum and the Pitt Rivers Museum offer classes which can provide important resources for the study of Buddhist art and material culture.
You will have access to the University's centrally provided electronic resources, the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies' IT Officer, and other bibliographic, archive or material sources as appropriate to the topic.
There is a computing room for the use of graduate students in the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies, as well as a common room where tea and coffee are available and staff and students can meet.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies.
Most students have the opportunity to meet with their supervisor at least once per term.
The first year is assessed by a qualifying exam in Trinity term, ensuring that you have fully comprehended the first year’s teaching activities.
Your assessment of the second year is specified by the given course instructor.
The final examination of the second year, consists of the following four components:
EITHER:
OR:
The examiners may examine any candidate by viva voce if they have concerns about the standard of written examination assessment.
Asian and Middle Eastern studies graduates have found employment in many and diverse fields including business, finance, law, civil service, journalism, government and industry.
Many graduates have also undertaken further research into subjects linked with Asian and Middle Eastern  studies and have pursued successful careers in the academic world, education and in museums.
The following colleges accept students on the MPhil in Buddhist Studies:
Balliol College Blackfriars Brasenose College Campion Hall Lady Margaret Hall Linacre College The Queen's College Regent's Park College St Cross College St Peter's College Wolfson College Wycliffe Hall
Those interested in finding out whether the course contents suits their interests and research plans can contact the course director and Numata Professor of Buddhist Studies, Kate Crosby.
You should make clear in your statement of purpose which primary Buddhist language you intend to study in this MPhil.
† Combined for all the faculty's MPhil courses except the MPhil in Modern Middle Eastern Studies *Three-year average (applications for entry in 2022-23 to 2024-25)

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/cancer-science-biological:
This Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) course provides a solid grounding in the study of oncology and cancer biology through the provision of advanced level seminars in the first year and subject specific training in your host department.
This course is for non-clinical scientists who want to undertake advanced study in the field of cancer research.
Applications are accepted from finalists or graduates in biological, medical, or chemical science, as appropriate for the project(s) selected (see Entry requirements for further details).
As a doctoral student on this course, you will carry out research for four years on a full-time basis.
All students are admitted directly to work under the supervision of a Principal Investigator who is formally appointed as the doctoral supervisor.
Your first year will consist of two six-month periods in different research groups.
This provides students with a broad base of experience and the opportunity to explore different aspects of research prior to selecting a single project to focus on in years two to four.
In your second, third and fourth years, you will undertake a selected research project from the list advertised in the course's "Non-clinical Rotations" project booklet.
For details of potential projects, please consult the project booklet on the department's website.
All doctoral students develop their skills through a range of research training and skills development in their first year of full-time study, by attending compulsory and optional courses and lectures in laboratory techniques and generic skills, including scientific writing and statistics, while also carrying out your research project.
You will be encouraged to attend lectures and seminars related to your programme of research and make the most of the doctoral training and research methods provision available across the University.
The aim is to tailor this training to individual needs and bring all students up to an advanced level in background knowledge.
Later training is focused on the skills required for a successful career in independent research and for clinicians, to successful re-integration into clinical training.
You will be based in various units, buildings and campuses around Oxford with the department supporting a wide range of clinical services located in Oxford’s John Radcliffe and Churchill Hospitals.
As a student on this course you will have access to experimental facilities, as appropriate to your research.
IT support will be provided from both the department hosting your research and University IT Services.
You will also have access to library services such as the Radcliffe Science Library and the Cairns Library.
The provision of project-specific resources will be agreed with the relevant supervisor and host department during the planning stages for the research project.
Workspace will be allocated according to individual circumstances.
This course also provides an opportunity to join the Oxford Cancer community .
The allocation of graduate supervision is the responsibility of the Medical Sciences Doctoral Training Centre and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Medical Sciences Doctoral Training Centre.
Students on this course are likely to be from a diverse range of backgrounds and specialisms, and study an assortment of subjects across many different departments and institutes.
As such, every student-supervisor relationship is tailored to the specific needs of each.
Students can expect to meet with their supervisors between every one to four weeks for input and guidance, although this may change throughout the course as students accumulate more experience.
Independent mentorship and supervision will be provided centrally from the course and will meet one to two times per year.
Within a maximum of six terms as a PRS student you will be expected to apply for transfer of status from Probationer Research Student to DPhil status.
Students who are successful at transfer will also be expected to apply for and gain confirmation of DPhil status within ten terms of admission, to show that your work continues to be on track.
You will be expected to submit an original thesis of up to 50,000 words within a maximum of four years from the date of admission.
The DPhil in Cancer Science (the previous version of this course) was a new course for entry in 2020, but historically, postgraduate cancer research students follow a wide variety of career paths, including all branches of biomedical research, clinical medicine, teaching, health administration and commerce.
Further information about alumni destinations for cancer research students can be found on the Oxford Cancer website.
Entrance is expected to be very competitive and it is anticipated that most successful applicants will have a first-class degree or the equivalent.
However, entrance is expected to be very competitive and it is anticipated that most successful applicants will have a GPA of 3.7 or higher.
Candidates who are shortlisted are interviewed as part of the admissions process.
Shortlisting will be based solely on the criteria given above.
There will be a minimum of two to three academics on the interview panel.
By preference, interviews will be conducted in person, but when this is not possible we will use telephone or video link such as Zoom (with video) and ensure that applicants are not disadvantaged by using these forms of communication.
Normally the interview will consist of a five-minute presentation of previous project work by the applicant, followed by 15-25 minutes of questioning from the panel.
The following colleges accept students on the Cancer Science (Biological background) CDT:
Balliol College Green Templeton College Hertford College Lady Margaret Hall Linacre College New College Reuben College St Anne's College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Hilda's College St Hugh's College St John's College University College Wycliffe Hall
It is strongly recommended that you contact potential supervisors directly to discuss the advertised project(s) in the Projects Book (which can be accessed via the course page on the Oxford Cancer website) before you apply.
If you have any general course enquiries, these can be directed to the course administrator using the contact details provided on this page.
You are required to list and rank up to three projects selected from the DPhil Projects Book under 'Field and title of research project'.
You should quote the project number and an abbreviated version of the project name for each of your chosen projects.
You may name up to three proposed supervisors and rank these in order of preference.
Academic references are strongly encouraged, though you may use up to one professional reference provided that it is relevant to the course.
† Combined figure for Cancer Science doctorates (R26_RP1, R26_RS1, RD_RF1 and RD_RG1) *Three-year average for the previous version of this course, R26_1 DPhil in Cancer Science (applications for entry in 2022-23 to 2024-25)

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-cancer-science-clinician:
This DPhil course provides a solid grounding in the study of oncology and cancer biology through the provision of advanced level seminars in the first year and subject specific training in your host department.
This course is aimed at fully-qualified medical doctors who are, or are eligible to be, registered clinical practitioners with the UK General Medical Council (GMC).
This course is for clinical students who want to undertake advanced study in the field of cancer research.
Applications are accepted from qualified doctors at all stages of training, from foundation to higher specialist training (see Entry requirements for further details).
As a doctoral student on this course, you will be based in a single research group/laboratory to undertake a research project for three years on a full-time basis.
You will be admitted to work under the supervision of a Principal Investigator who is formally appointed as your DPhil supervisor.
You will undertake a selected research project from the list advertised in the course's "Clinical/Medical Undergraduates" project booklet.
There is no period of rotation between laboratories.
Successful applicants’ University tuition fees will be fully funded at the Home fee rate, or the Overseas fee rate if applicable.
Students begin the course as a probationary research student (PRS).
Before the end of their fourth term, students are required to write a report prior to transfer to DPhil status.
Progress is evaluated by two academic assessors, who are not directly involved in the student’s supervision.
Continuation on the course is subject to passing the Confirmation of Status assessment in year two or three.
The doctoral work will culminate in a thesis that will be defended in an oral examination ( viva voce) .
Students are expected to submit their thesis between the ninth and twelfth terms from being admitted as a PRS.
Further information about the funding and employment aspects of this course can be found on the department's website.
The following colleges accept students on the DPhil in Cancer Science (Clinician):

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-cancer-science-intercalation:
This course is for trainee clinicians who want to undertake advanced study in the field of cancer research.
Applications are accepted from students who are currently undertaking a primary medical qualification: MBBS, MBChB, or equivalent (see Entry requirements for further details).
During the first weeks of study, the Oxford Cancer team will provide an induction course.
The doctoral work will culminate in a thesis that will be defended in an oral examination ( viva voce ).
The DPhil in Cancer Science (the previous version of this course) was a new course for entry in 2020, but historically, postgraduate cancer research students follow a wide variety of career paths, including all branches of biomedical research, clinical medicine, teaching, health administration and commerce.
By preference, interviews will be conducted in person, but when this is not possible we will interview via telephone or online, ensuring that applicants are not disadvantaged by using these forms of communication.
Medical students currently at Oxford should refer to the funding advice available on the Oxford Students website .
You will need to select the six-year course and refer to the information provided under 'Studying for a higher degree'.
All other applicants should consult that information about funding opportunities for this course that can be found on the department's website.
The following colleges accept students on the DPhil in Cancer Science (Intercalation):
You are required to list and rank three projects selected from the DPhil Projects Book under 'Field and title of research project'.
You must name three proposed supervisors and rank these in order of preference.
You must provide a letter from your medical school confirming permission to intercalate for the duration of the course.
You will need to upload this in the written work section of the application form.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/cancer-science-maths-physics:
This Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) course provides a solid grounding in the study of oncology and cancer biology through the provision of advanced level seminars in the first year and subject specific training in your host department.
This course is for fundamental scientists who want to undertake advanced study in the field of cancer research.
Applications are accepted from finalists or graduates in mathematical/data, engineering, or physical science, as appropriate for the project(s) selected (see Entry requirements for further details).
The following colleges accept students on the Cancer Science (Maths/Physics background) CDT:

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/mphil-celtic-studies:
The MPhil in Celtic Studies is designed to give you the opportunity to concentrate on the study of aspects of the history and culture of Celtic-speaking peoples from antiquity to the present day.
Options in language, literature and linguistics form the core of the degree, while a range of optional subjects in these areas and beyond is also available.
The MPhil in Celtic Studies is suitable if you wish to proceed to a research degree or if you would like to spend only two years at Oxford on a free-standing degree.
This two-year course is normally restricted to those who have taken a first degree in a relevant subject area; however, it is also suitable for students with no previous background in Celtic, but with sufficient linguistic ability to acquire grounding in Welsh and/or Irish quickly.
You will take a core course which introduces the medieval Celtic languages through the close study of texts in class, while other areas are taught through tutorials which may be supplemented by lecture series.
A weekly Celtic research seminar brings all students together with talks by invited, mainly external speakers, run jointly in collaboration with the Centre for Advanced Welsh and Celtic Studies, Aberystwyth.
You will take one or two core options, from a choice of:
You will also take one or two special options, which may develop one of these areas in more depth; or may be another ancient or modern Celtic language and its associated culture; or may be on a historical or other relevant topic.
You will write a dissertation that typically arises out of one of the options studied; and will also be required to develop a reading knowledge of a modern Celtic language which you have not previously studied at degree level.
Generally, student numbers in the MPhil are relatively small and this allows the teaching to be tailored to the particular choice you may make.
Teaching is provided through a mixture of classes and tutorials.
Teaching for the course is shared among three faculties, English, History and Linguistics.
Faculty members who have previously taught on the course and have particular expertise in Celtic topics include Prof David Willis (course director; Celtic linguistics, Welsh language and culture); Prof Mark Williams (medieval Irish and Welsh literature; modern reception of Celtic literature); Jenyth Evans (medieval Irish literature); Dr Rosalind Temple (Welsh phonetics and sociolinguistics); Nora Baker (Irish language instructor); and Hanna Hopwood Griffiths (Welsh language instructor).
Opportunities for interdisciplinary exchange are provided by the communities fostered within individual colleges, which also offer you dedicated support by means of personal advisors.
The Oxford Centre for Research in the Humanities (TORCH) offers a stimulating range of interdisciplinary activities.
You will be based in the Schwarzman Centre for the Humanities, a brand-new building at the University of Oxford expected to open in 2025, which will accommodate seven faculties, two institutes, a new library, a large number of well-equipped teaching and seminar rooms, and performance and arts venues.
The building will enable the recently-established Cultural Programme to flourish, with a 500-seat world class concert hall, a theatre, experimental performance venue, 100-seat cinema, and exhibition hall.
Many of these venues will support academic and student-led activities, as well as performances and creative works by professional artists.
The cultural programme will enrich the lives of students, and will also provide opportunities to get involved.
The library, part of the Bodleian Libraries, will be open to all students, and will house lending collections for English, Film Studies, History of Medicine, Internet Studies, Music, Philosophy and Theology.
The allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of the Humanities Division  and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Humanities Division.
The course assessment consists of the following elements:
The option papers allow you to focus on both Irish and Welsh or on only one of the two.
If you wish, you may also select aspects of the history of the Celtic-speaking peoples, as well as linguistic and literary options.
Although the regulations are flexible enough to allow for individual preferences, there is a compulsory language element requiring the close study of texts in the original language(s).
Many MPhil students proceed to doctoral degrees at Oxford or at other universities.
Other graduate destinations include teaching, journalism, law, publishing, and the civil service.
a first-class or strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours as a minimum, in a relevant course of academic study, such as Welsh, Irish or Celtic studies, linguistics, literature or history.
Applicants for the MPhil must show clear evidence of the linguistic ability to acquire one or two Celtic languages within the duration of the course.
Applicants selected for this course will have shown clear evidence of linguistic ability and a serious interest in acquiring new knowledge and skills.
You may evidence this in your statement of purpose and submitted written work, as well as by the qualifications you have obtained.
Entrance is very competitive and most successful applicants have a high first-class degree or the equivalent.
Details of any publications would be of interest to the assessors and should be included in the application.
However, MPhil candidates may be interviewed in order to clarify aspects of their application.
Any interviews will be held as soon as possible after the closing date, either in person, by telephone, or online.
The Humanities Division offers a number of courses that are delivered jointly by several humanities faculties.
As a student in the Humanities Division, you will have access to an immense range of research material, including digital resources.
In addition to materials and support focused on conveying subject-specific knowledge, there is a wide range of facilities aimed at the personal and professional development of students; strengthening their existing skills and developing new skills, and preparing them for careers after they have completed their studies.
Further information about funding opportunities for this course can be found on the Humanities division website.
The following colleges accept students on the MPhil in Celtic Studies:
Blackfriars Campion Hall Jesus College Kellogg College Linacre College Regent's Park College St Catherine's College St Cross College Wolfson College Wycliffe Hall
You are encouraged to communicate with the faculty in order to refine your application, using the contact details provided on this page.
However, it is not a pre-requisite to an application.
At least two of your references should be academic; the third may be professional but it should nevertheless speak to your ability to study your proposed course.
Your references will support intellectual ability, academic achievement, and motivation.
The statement should be written with reference to the course structure of the MPhil.
Your statement should focus on your academic qualifications to the extent that they are relevant to your academic plans, rather than on personal achievements, interests and aspirations.
The statement will be assessed with reference to:
Academic essays or other writing samples from your most recent qualification, written in English or a Celtic language, are required.
Clearly highlighted extracts of the requisite length from longer work are also permissible.
Where necessary, a cover note may be attached placing an extract in a larger context.
At least one piece of work should relate closely to the proposed area of study.
The word count does not include any bibliography or brief footnotes.
† Combined with MPhil in Slavonic Studies *Three-year average (applications for entry in 2022-23 to 2024-25)
This interdisciplinary course is offered by the Humanities Division
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0) 1865 615264

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/mst-celtic-studies:
The MSt in Celtic Studies is designed to give you the opportunity to concentrate on the study of aspects of the history and culture of Celtic-speaking peoples from antiquity to the present day.
The MSt in Celtic Studies is suitable both for students wishing to proceed to a research degree and for those who wish to spend only one year at Oxford.
This is a nine-month course designed to help those who already possess a good knowledge of Welsh, Irish or another Celtic language to acquire a grounding in areas of Celtic studies which were not part of their first degree course.
Alternatively, it can be a path for those who wish to deepen their knowledge in a particular area of Celtic studies.
The MSt in Celtic Studies provides an appropriate introduction for you if you are contemplating higher research in a DPhil or PhD programme in this area.
You will take one core course, which will provide an introduction to the medieval Celtic languages through the close study of texts in class.
Other areas are taught through tutorials which may be supplemented by lecture series.
You will take two papers, either two options from a choice of:
or
You will write a dissertation on an approved topic normally arising from one of the options studied, and you will also be required to develop a reading knowledge of a modern Celtic language which you have not previously studied at degree level.
Generally, student numbers in the MSt are relatively small and this allows the teaching to be tailored to the particular choice you may make.
Faculty members who have previously taught on the course and have particular expertise in Celtic topics include Prof David Willis (course director; Celtic linguistics, Welsh language and culture); Prof Mark Williams (medieval Irish and Welsh literature; modern reception of Celtic literature); Jenyth Evans (medieval Irish literature); Dr Rosalind Temple (Welsh phonetics and sociolinguistics); Nora Baker (Irish language instructor); and 'Hanna Hopwood Griffiths (Welsh language instructor).
The allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of the Humanities Division and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
The option papers allow you to study both Irish and Welsh or only one of the two.
Although the regulations are flexible enough to allow for individual preferences, there is also a compulsory language element requiring the close study of texts in the original language(s).
Many MSt students proceed to doctoral degrees at Oxford or at other universities.
Degree-level competence in at least one Celtic language is a requirement for admission to the MSt.
However, MSt candidates may be interviewed in order to clarify aspects of their application.
The following colleges accept students on the MSt in Celtic Studies:
The statement should be written with reference to the course structure of the MSt.
† Combined with MSt in Slavonic Studies and MSt in Yiddish Studies *Two-year average (applications for entry in 2022-23 and 2024-25)

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/chemical-synthesis-healthy-planet:
The EPSRC CDT in Chemical Synthesis for a Healthy Planet (CSHP CDT) is a four-year course, run jointly with the University of York, providing training in contemporary sustainable organic synthesis, and its application to challenges in medicine, agrochemistry, and materials.
The EPSRC CDT in Chemical Synthesis for a Healthy Planet (CSHP CDT) is based in the Departments of Chemistry at the University of Oxford and the University of York.
The course was designed in collaboration with eight international chemical companies, including representation from the pharmaceutical, agrochemical, and fine-chemical sectors.
Ten award winning SMEs are also involved in the course.
The CSHP CDT aims to train the next generation of synthetic chemists, equipping them with a 'Systems Chemistry' mindset and the skills needed to transform the practise and application of chemical synthesis.
The course uses a cohort model (approximately 16 students per year).
The CDT begins with a four-month taught course, based predominantly in Oxford, which will equip students with the contemporary tools and knowledge in sustainable chemical innovation that will be needed for substantive research projects.
Training modules, alongside team-building challenges and personal development activities will develop a 'Systems Chemistry' mindset, providing training to appreciate the links between synthetic chemistry and the physical, ecological and human systems of the planet, nurturing the capacity to think and work across discipline boundaries.
The entire cohort will spend two weeks at the Green Chemistry Centre of Excellence at the University of York, to receive bespoke expert training in 'Sustainability in Synthesis'.
At the conclusion of the 16-week taught course, the students join the research groups for their substantive projects, which they will have chosen prior to the start of their course.
These can focus on any of the three global challenges of Human Health, Food Security, and Energy and Materials, and must embed the 'Systems Chemistry' principles developed during the taught course.
All students will also attend a two-week course on the concepts of 'Sustainability in Synthesis' at the University of York.
To enable significant and long term research goals to be tackled, research projects will be clustered into four 'Project Fields': Reaction Innovation; Rethinking & Upcycling Feedstocks, Solvents and Waste; Intersecting with Pharma/Agrochemistry; Intersecting with Organic Materials.
During all four years of the course students also receive a tailored programme designed to broaden their research and professional skills, including an industrial placement opportunity.
As part of the course, you will be required to attend a two-week course at the University of York.
The majority taught courses on the CSHP CDT during the first year will be held in the newly repurposed Doctoral Training Suite in the Rodney Porter Building at Oxford.
There is a dedicated student office, with individual desk areas and allocated computers.
You will work in an environment which encourages and inspires you to acquire and develop a wide range of communication, study, and research skills.
Workspace will be related to individual circumstances.
If undertaking experimental work, you will be provided with space in a laboratory with access to all the required equipment.
You will have access to the departmental IT support staff, to the Radcliffe Science Library and other university libraries, and centrally provided electronic resources and technical workshops.
Experimental facilities are available as appropriate to the research topic.
The provision of other resources specific to your project should be agreed upon with your supervisor as a part of the planning stages of the agreed project.
In the event of the need for pastoral care, support is available from your college, from the project supervisor, and the course management team.
The allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of the Department of Chemistry and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Department of Chemistry.
You will also have an industrial supervisor from one of the CSHP Partner companies.
Most students typically have the opportunity to meet with their supervisor(s) or a senior member of the research team on at least a weekly basis.
All modules during the taught course component involve some aspect of formal assessment, including written reports, problem solving, and group and individual presentations.
Throughout the project component of the course, a termly report on the student’s progress is submitted by both the student and their supervisor.
You will be admitted as a Probationary Research Student and, at an appropriate stage (normally after four terms), you will undergo a Transfer of Status assessment, to ensure they have the potential to gain a doctorate, in line with the University's graduate student progression guidelines.
This assessment is made by independent assessors on the basis of overall performance in the taught course component, together with a project report, a short presentation and an oral examination.
Assuming that you satisfactorily transfer to DPhil status, your research proceeds with quarterly reporting throughout the rest of your course.
At the beginning of your fourth year, you must pass the Confirmation of Status assessment, to ensure that you are on track to complete the thesis within a reasonable time.
You will be expected to submit a DPhil thesis within, at most, four years from the date of admission.
Your thesis will be read by two examiners, one of whom is normally from Oxford and one from elsewhere, and you will be assessed via the thesis and an oral (viva voce) examination.
The examiners will judge, along with other requirements, whether you have made a significant and substantial contribution to your particular field of learning.
This is a new course and there are no alumni yet.
Graduates of Oxford's DPhil degrees in chemistry are highly regarded by a wide range of employers, including universities, high-tech start-up companies, and industry.
There is a wide variety of potential destinations that also include scientific writing, patent attorneys, government and civil service, or financial and business services.
The Department of Chemistry runs an annual careers event for graduate students, and the Oxford University Careers Service offers a variety of specialist support.
The departments also host a large number of visits from prospective employers, where students can find more information.
The course also has a strong engagement with industry, with regular visits and several interactions with industrial partners
Substantial professional experience or a graduate qualification may be a substitute for a lower grade at undergraduate level.
Entrance is very competitive and most successful applicants have a first-class degree or the equivalent.
They are normally held online using Teams.
There are usually two rounds of interviews, one in December for the applications received during the November deadline, and one in February for applicants to the January deadline.
Additional interviews later in the year will be considered if spaces remain available.
Shortlisted candidates will normally be given one 45-minute technical panel interview with at least two academics of the course.
The interview will typically consist of two brief presentations.
For one, you will be asked to present on some aspect of chemical synthesis research that you have been involved in.
For the other, you will be asked to present on a scientific paper that you will have selected from a list provided in advance.
Questions from the panel can be expected on the topics that you present, and on general technical concepts of organic synthesis and sustainable chemistry, including a problem solving exercise.
You will be evaluated both on your ability to present and communicate research as well as your technical knowledge.
Performance at the interviews will be used to create a ranking of candidates.
The second stage of the interview process will involve online meetings with potential supervisors from your selected projects, and are intended to assess your suitability for the relevant project.
The two interviews will likely be held on different days.
Oxford is one of the leading chemistry research departments in the world, with around 80 academic staff carrying out international level research and an annual research income of around £38 million.
In the most recent national assessment of research (REF 2021) 66% of our research output was judged world-leading, and 32% was judged internationally excellent.
The department has a number of research themes, including:
The facilities at Oxford for research and teaching are among the best available in the UK, with a wide range of the latest instrumentation and a huge computational resource networked throughout the University and beyond to national computing centres.
Among the facilities available are the latest in automated X-ray diffractometers, electron microscopes, scanning tunnelling microscopes, mass spectrometers, high-field nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectrometers and specialised instruments for the study of solids.
This course includes compulsory elements that entail additional costs beyond fees (or, after fee liability ends, continuation charges) and living costs.
During the taught element of the course, all students will be required to spend two weeks at the University of York for a bespoke course on the concepts of 'Sustainability in Synthesis’; travel and accommodation costs for this will be covered by the CDT for those students in receipt of a full CDT studentship award.
In addition, please note that, depending on your choice of research topic and the research required to complete it, you may incur additional expenses, such as travel expenses, research expenses, and field trips.
CDT-funded studentships come with an additional research training support grant (RTSG) to contribute to costs of associated research and travel during the substantive project.
The following colleges accept students on the Chemical Synthesis for a Healthy Planet CDT:
Balliol College Exeter College Hertford College Jesus College Keble College Kellogg College Linacre College Lincoln College Magdalen College New College Oriel College Reuben College St Cross College St Edmund Hall St John's College University College Wadham College Wolfson College Worcester College
You may wish to make contact with the CDT team before you apply in order to work out whether this is the right course for you, and the likely availability of funding.
You should do so via the contact details provided on this page.
You are also encouraged to make informal enquiries to prospective project supervisors prior to applying.
Visit the Chemical Synthesis for a Healthy Planet (CDT) website for the contact details of academic staff.
You are required to list and rank up to three projects selected from the research project list on the CSHP CDT website under 'Field and title of research project'.
You should quote the Project ID for each of your chosen projects.
You will be able to upload your supporting materials separately if they are required (as described below).
You are not required to list any potential supervisors under 'Proposed supervisor'.
You can leave this field blank.
Please ensure that you list your three preferred projects under 'Field and title of research project' and in your statement of purpose.
Academic references are preferred, although a maximum of one professional reference is acceptable where you have completed an industrial placement or worked in a full-time position.
Your references will support proven and potential academic excellence in terms of intellectual ability, academic achievement, motivation, communication skills and ability to work in a group.
Your statement should be written in English and explain your motivation for applying for the course at Oxford, your relevant experience and education, and the specific areas that interest you.
You should also include your 1-2-3 choices of substantive research projects taken from the “research project list” advertised on the CSHP CDT website.
Your statement should focus on your academic achievements and interests, rather than personal achievements, interests and aspirations.
Your statement of purpose should include:
*This is a new course (for entry in 2025-26)
This course is offered by the Department of Chemistry

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-chemistry:
This is a research degree leading to the award of a DPhil in Chemistry.
The course admits students across the full breadth of research in the department, which focuses on fundamental science aimed at making significant and sustained long-term impact.
The main aspect of the course is an original research project, which develops research skills, knowledge and expertise in an area of cutting-edge chemistry.
You will work with one or more academic supervisors, on a project that falls within the department's research themes:
Many students work on projects that cut across the traditional boundaries of chemistry, and some work in interdisciplinary fields that exploit the Department of Chemistry's strong connections with other departments of the University.
Students are supervised by some of the country’s most gifted research chemists, many of whom have world-class reputations.
A typical week would primarily be spent carrying out your research, along with attending research group meetings, preparing reports, and keeping up-to-date with the scientific literature.
You will also have access to a range of training opportunities, including specialist training within the department on key research techniques.
Alongside your research project, you will be expected to develop your transferable skills, and many courses and opportunities for this are provided by the Mathematical, Physical and Life Sciences division and the wider University.
The Department of Chemistry has a strong and vibrant research community, of which you will become part, and you will be encouraged to attend a range of events including seminar series, lectures from distinguished visiting researchers, and the annual Graduate Symposium.
The Department of Chemistry has one of the largest and well-resourced research laboratories in the world.
You will have access to the department’s IT support staff, to the Radcliffe Science Library and other University libraries, and centrally provided electronic resources, technical workshops and glass workshops.
The provision of other resources specific to your project should be agreed with your supervisor as a part of the planning stages of the agreed project.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Department of Chemistry.
You will join a research group supervised by one or more members of the Department of Chemistry, sometimes in collaboration with other departments.
If you require specific help to adjust to an academic programme or to develop a new range of skills, your supervisor will work with you to ensure that you have additional support.
Most students have the opportunity to meet with their research supervisor to discuss and review their progress on a weekly or fortnightly basis.
You will be admitted as a Probationary Research Student.
At the end of the first year, you will undergo a Transfer of Status assessment, to ensure that you have the potential to gain a doctorate.
This assessment is made by independent assessors on the basis of a report, a short presentation and an oral examination.
By the end of the third year, you must pass the Confirmation of Status assessment, to ensure that you are on track to complete the thesis within a reasonable time.
This is a new course, formed by the amalgamation in 2024 of four of our previous courses: DPhil in Chemical Biology, DPhil in Inorganic Chemistry, DPhil in Organic Chemistry, DPhil in Physical and Theoretical Chemistry.
Students who have graduated from our previous chemistry doctoral courses often remain in chemistry.
Many continue in academic research as post docs and, later, run their own independent research programmes.
Some go into the educational sector, and some go into industry (particularly the health-related industries such as pharmaceuticals).
There is a wide variety of other destinations, including scientific writers, patent attorneys, government and the civil service; and a few go into financial services.
The department runs annual careers events for graduate students, and the Oxford University Careers Service offers a variety of specialist support.
The department also hosts a large number of visits from prospective employers, where students can find out more information.
There is an Alumni Officer, who keeps in touch with graduates, and the department runs a number of social and scientific events for them.
A shortlist of candidates will be invited for interview.
Interviews are arranged directly by the prospective supervisors and usually they are conducted via MS Teams.
Typically, the interview lasts up to 30 minutes and it may include discussion on your research interests and subject-related questions.
The following colleges accept students on the DPhil in Chemisty:
Balliol College Brasenose College Campion Hall Christ Church Corpus Christi College Exeter College Hertford College Jesus College Keble College Lady Margaret Hall Linacre College Lincoln College Magdalen College Merton College New College Oriel College Pembroke College The Queen's College Reuben College St Anne's College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Edmund Hall St Hilda's College St Hugh's College St John's College St Peter's College Somerville College Trinity College University College Wadham College Wolfson College Worcester College Wycliffe Hall
You should make contact with the academic(s) in your area of research to discuss potential research topics and likely availability of funding.
You can approach academic staff directly via the contact details provided on their departmental webpage.
General enquiries should be made to the Graduate Studies Team via the contact details provided on this page.
You should name up to three proposed supervisors and list them in order of preference.
Your proposed supervisors can be from different sections of the chemistry department.
If you wish to list more than three proposed supervisors, please contact the department directly via the email address listed on this page.
Assessment of your application is likely to be delayed if no proposed supervisors are listed.
Rather than a research proposal, you should provide  a statement of purpose.
*Three-year average of applications of all previous Chemistry DPhil programmes (for entry in 2022-23 to 2024-25)
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 272569

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/msc-research-chemistry:
This is a research degree leading to the award of an MSc(Res) in Chemistry.
In many ways, the course is very similar to the DPhil in Chemistry, the key difference being that a DPhil project would normally take longer to complete and would be expected to make more significant advances in the field of research.
The MSc(Res) offers an alternative to a DPhil, for students wishing to undertake a shorter research degree.
Alongside your research project, you will be expected to develop your transferable skills, and many courses and opportunities for this are provided by the Mathematical, Physical and Life Sciences division and the wider University.
At the end of the first year, you will undergo a Transfer of Status assessment, to ensure that you have the potential to gain an MSc by Research degree.
Assuming that you satisfactorily transfer to MSc by Research status, your research proceeds with quarterly reporting throughout the remainder of the course.
You will be expected to submit an MSc by Research thesis within, at most, three years from the date of admission.
The vast majority of students submit their thesis within two years.
The examiners will judge, along with other requirements, whether you have made a worthwhile contribution to your particular field of learning.
This is a new course, formed by the amalgamation in 2024 of four of our previous courses: MSc by Research in Chemical Biology, MSc by Research in Inorganic Chemistry, MSc by Research in Organic Chemistry, MSc by Research in Physical & Theoretical Chemistry.
Students who have graduated from our previous chemistry research courses often remain in chemistry.
The following colleges accept students on the MSc by Research in Chemistry:
Balliol College Brasenose College Campion Hall Christ Church Corpus Christi College Exeter College Hertford College Jesus College Keble College Lady Margaret Hall Linacre College Lincoln College Merton College New College Oriel College Pembroke College The Queen's College Reuben College St Anne's College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Edmund Hall St Hilda's College St Hugh's College St John's College St Peter's College Somerville College Trinity College University College Wadham College Wolfson College Worcester College Wycliffe Hall
You should make contact with the academic (s) in your area of research to discuss potential research topics and likely availability of funding.
*Three-year average of applications for all previous Chemistry MSc by Research programmes (for entry in 2022-23 to 2024-25)

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-chemistry-idla-genAI-accelerated-kinetic-modelling:
This Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) funded project in the DPhil in Chemistry will require you to investigate a particular project in depth and write a thesis which makes a significant contribution to the field.
By applying via this page, you will be considered for the specific project of the DPhil in Chemistry that is named above and described in more detail below.
If you are interested in a different research area, please consider applying for the main DPhil in Chemistry course or a different IDLA project.
This course is focussed on a single project funded by the EPSRC Industrial Doctoral Landscape Award (IDLA): GenAI-Accelerated Kinetic Modelling of Catalytic CO 2 Valorisation.
The industrial partner for this project is IBM UK Ltd.
You will acquire a wide range of research and transferable skills, as well as in-depth knowledge, understanding and expertise in your chosen field of research.
You will become part of a vibrant community of researchers.
The EPSRC Industrial Doctoral Landscape Award (IDLA), which funds this course, was previously known as Industrial Cooperative Awards in Science and Engineering (ICASE).
The adverse environmental effects of fossil fuel consumption have motivated significant efforts to defossilise the energy, mobility and chemical industries.
Photo/electro-catalytic conversion of greenhouse gas CO 2 into value-added chemicals has attracted interest towards mitigating climate change and developing sustainable, circular economies.
Lanthanum-cuprate perovskites (LCO), are highly promising photo/electro-catalysts for this conversion, but have stability issues due to catalyst reconstruction/restructuring, involving copper (Cu) exsolution to the surface.
This leads to reaction yield issues, due to the different reactions possible on pristine perovskite facets versus on Cu single-atoms or nanoclusters thereon.
Motivated by these challenges this DPhil project aims at (i) developing and training a generative AI (GenAI) tool to propose possible reaction/surface reconstruction steps, towards accelerating the exploration of Cu exsolution and CO 2 conversion pathways on LCO, (ii) fine-tuning machine-learning interatomic potentials (MLIP), eg MACE-MP-0, Open Materials 2024 (OMat24), or Open Catalyst 2022 (OC22), which will be used to refine the GenAI-proposed steps, and (iii) using the dataset generated by GenAI to parameterise kinetic Monte Carlo (KMC) simulations towards mapping out the stability and selectivity of LCO structures for a range of conditions.
The project will thus deliver fundamental understanding of the mechanisms that affect catalytic performance and will guide the development of superior CO 2 conversion photo/electro-catalysts.
The successful candidate will join the Multiscale Computational Catalysis and Materials Science research group, led by Dr Michail Stamatakis at the Department of Chemistry .
The successful candidate will also have the opportunity to be mentored by an experienced research scientist from IBM as part of the supervision team alongside the academic staff at the University of Oxford.
Additionally, they will be hosted for at least 3 months by the IBM Research team at the Daresbury Sci-tech campus or at the Hursley R&D Lab, and will have the opportunity to work with a range of professional research scientists across a wide range of domains including machine learning, computer science, geospatial AI and software engineering.
Students who have graduated from previous chemistry doctoral courses often remain in chemistry.
The successful applicant who is offered a place on this course will be offered a fully-funded scholarship, covering all course fees for the duration of their course and a living stipend.
We recommend contacting the project supervisor, Professor Michail Stamatakis , ahead of submitting your application.
You can also contact the Admissions Administrator using the contact details provided on this page if you have additional queries.
Please leave 'Field and title of research project' blank on the 'Course' tab of the application form.
It is not necessary for you to identify a potential supervisor in your application.
Professional references are welcomed, but these must be obtained from your line manager (or equivalent).
At least one academic reference must be provided.
Your references will support your intellectual ability, academic achievement and potential, motivation, creativity, and ability to work singly and in a group.
You should submit an outline of your proposed research, written in English.
You should explain why you are keen to work on this specific IDLA project and your reasons for applying.
Inevitably your ideas will change as you develop your project.
You should nevertheless make the best effort you can to describe the extent and ambition of your proposed research using sources and methods from the current literature.
Your proposal should focus on your research ambitions in engineering, rather than on personal achievements, interests and aspirations.
Apply - Full time Continue application
12:00 midday UK time on:
Final application deadline for entry in 2025-26
† Number of places for this specific IDLA project *Three-year average for the related DPhil in Chemistry (applications for entry in 2022-23 to 2024-25)

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-classical-archaeology:
The DPhil in Classical Archaeology provides you with the opportunity to pursue substantial independent research from within a wide range of periods and subjects, ranging from the prehistoric Aegean through the Archaic, Classical, Hellenistic and Roman periods to Byzantium.
The DPhil is a full-time degree that is examined only by thesis and there is no formal course of instruction.
Instead, students develop their own topic under the guidance of their supervisors, who are experts in their field of research.
There is also the possibility to develop projects which cross disciplinary boundaries, for example in ancient history or archaeological science as appropriate.
Details of the School of Archaeology's research areas and themes, and recently completed DPhil projects are listed on the school's website.
You will be encouraged to attend specialist skills seminars, lectures and to participate in research seminars, particularly the numerous and wide-ranging weekly seminar series organised within the cutting-edge Historical and Classical Research Group .
These also often provide opportunities for research students to present their own work.
Graduate students also run their own organisation, Graduate Archaeology at Oxford, which provides further skills seminars, a mentoring programme, social events and a very successful conference series.
The school strongly encourages fieldwork and there are often opportunities for joining fieldwork in relation to projects led by academic staff.
The School of Archaeology has premises at South Parks Road and the Institute of Archaeology.
The school provides stations set up for specialist GIS and mapping-related software.
It has a wide-range of digital facilities, including desktop imaging and manipulation for publication and dissertation/thesis production such as full-colour scanning of slides, negatives, maps and other paper plan originals.
Students in Classical archaeology also have access to networked computers in the Ioannou Centre for Classical and Byzantine Studies.
There is a small library in the Institute and a searchable catalogue is available on-line.
The Bodleian Art, Archaeology and Ancient World Library, a world-class library for archaeology, classics, and art history, is situated between the Institute of Archaeology, the Ioannou Centre and the Ashmolean Museum, and is the central facility; this provides for most student needs.
The school has close ties with the Ashmolean Museum, the collections of which, including the Cast Gallery of Classical Sculpture, contribute to graduate teaching.
The School of Archaeology has lecture rooms, seminar rooms and common rooms at both premises.
The Institute also houses a small library.
Lectures and graduate seminars in classical archaeology are also held in the nearby Ioannou Centre for Classical and Byzantine Studies, where there is a further common room.
The allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of School of Archaeology and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
While the degree of contact varies depending on individual circumstances, students should arrange to meet with their supervisors.
To begin with, students are admitted as Probationer Research Students, transferring to full doctoral status within four terms of arrival.
Progress is formally assessed through the submission of written work and an interview by a small assessment panel ('transfer of status'), while a further similar assessment ('confirmation of status') is held within seven terms of arrival.
At each stage, you will also make a short formal presentation of your research at one of the doctoral student symposia organised by the School of Archaeology, which will help you develop your presentation skills at an early stage of your career.
Students are expected to complete their theses, which have a maximum word length of 80,000 words, within three or at the most four years.
Many graduates from the DPhil in Classical Archaeology are successful in obtaining academic posts at universities in the UK, USA and elsewhere, while others engage in post-doctoral research, or go on to positions within museums of classical or fine art.
Others find careers elsewhere in education, museums, commercial archaeology and the heritage industry.
Interviews may be held.
The following colleges accept students on the DPhil in Classical Archaeology:
Balliol College Blackfriars Brasenose College Campion Hall Christ Church Corpus Christi College Exeter College Hertford College Jesus College Keble College Kellogg College Lady Margaret Hall Linacre College Lincoln College Magdalen College Merton College Regent's Park College Reuben College St Anne's College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Hugh's College St John's College Somerville College University College Wadham College Wolfson College Worcester College Wycliffe Hall
You are strongly recommended to discuss your research proposal and its feasibility with your proposed supervisor in advance of applying.
A clearly set out and well-documented research proposal, written in English, is required.
You should nevertheless make the best effort you can to demonstrate the extent of your research question, sources and method at the moment of application.
Written work in English and relating directly to the field of Classical archaeology is required.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/mphil-classical-archaeology:
The MPhil in Classical Archaeology is designed for those interested in continuing to a doctorate in Classical archaeology, and for those with experience in other areas of classical studies wishing to develop an understanding of the material culture.
The MPhil combines the flexibility of the MSt in Classical Archaeology , which allows you to choose from a wide range of broad periods and detailed options, with the opportunity to research a topic of your choice in the form of a thesis.
In the first year, you will choose one period option module.
A list of typical period modules is provided below (not all modules run every year).
You will then take two further option modules which will enable you to develop a deeper understanding of a particular field of research.
A list of typical option subjects is provided below and more information is available on the school’s website (See Further information and enquiries ).
(Not all modules listed will be available every year).
You may also be permitted to study an unlisted topic within Classical archaeology, or another directly related to it, provided that the topic is appropriate and teaching is available, or a subject from among those offered in a number of cognate disciplines.
Teaching is mainly through small-group tutorials or classes of usually one to five students, for which you will prepare short essays on a weekly basis, supplemented by a wide range of lecture courses and graduate seminars.
Each member of the academic staff in Classical archaeology offers a different subject in their areas of specialism in each of the first two terms, so you can normally choose from about eight different subjects each term, covering major topics from the Bronze Age to the Byzantine period.
In the second year, you will take a fourth taught subject from within Classical archaeology, and work on your thesis.
Graduate students run their own organisation (Graduate Archaeology at Oxford) which provides further skills seminars, a mentoring programme, social events and a very successful conference series.
The School of Archaeology provides computer rooms for the use of all graduate students, with 24-hour access, offering the usual range of software, while a number of computers provide specialist GIS and mapping-related software.
The Bodleian Art, Archaeology and Ancient World Library, a world-class library for archaeology, classics, and art history, is situated between the Institute of Archaeology, Ioannou Centre and the Ashmolean Museum, and is the central facility; this provides for most student needs.
The School has close ties with the Ashmolean Museum, the collections of which, including the Cast Gallery of Classical Sculpture, contribute to graduate teaching.
The School of Archaeology has lecture and seminar rooms, and a common room.
There is also a small library at the Institute of Archaeology on Beaumont Street, while lectures and graduate seminars in Classical archaeology are also held in the nearby Ioannou Centre for Classical and Byzantine Studies, where there is a further common room.
For students who chose to take modules in Archaeological Science, the Research Laboratory for Archaeology at the History of Art has a range of equipment for cutting edge techniques across scientific dating, bio-archaeology and materials analysis.
The allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of the School of Archaeology and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
You will meet with your supervisor at least at the start of each term.
You will have a departmental supervisor, normally your MPhil thesis supervisor in your main area of interest, who may also provide some of your teaching but will advise on option choices and monitor overall progress.
The three subject options are examined by pairs of pre-set essays, submitted early in the following terms.
The period paper, which is the focus of the final term of the first year, is assessed by written examination at the end of that term.
The thesis subject is decided by the end of the first year, with any fieldwork taking place in the long vacation, and the research and writing occupy the second and third terms of the second year.
There is also a compulsory viva voce examination for each year of the course, which is held in week nine of Trinity term.
Most graduates from the MPhil in Classical Archaeology continue to further degree programmes in Classical Archaeology either at Oxford or at leading universities elsewhere, predominantly in the UK and the USA.
Others find careers in education, museums, commercial archaeology and the heritage industry.
The following colleges accept students on the MPhil in Classical Archaeology:
Balliol College Blackfriars Brasenose College Campion Hall Christ Church Corpus Christi College Exeter College Harris Manchester College Hertford College Jesus College Keble College Kellogg College Lady Margaret Hall Linacre College Lincoln College Magdalen College Merton College Regent's Park College St Anne's College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Hugh's College St John's College Somerville College University College Wadham College Wolfson College Worcester College Wycliffe Hall
You may find it useful to make contact with an academic member of staff before you apply.
Details of academic staff, including their research interests and contact details, can be found on the school's website.
All applicants should submit a personal statement and a research proposal.
You should provide a personal statement of no more than 300 words, explaining in English why you want to study this particular course and focusing on academic rather than personal achievements, interests and aspirations.
Please also list all subjects and period options in which you might be interested.
The above will be assessed for:
You should provide a clearly set out and well-documented research proposal of up to 700 words, which should include a title for an MPhil thesis.
Academic written work in English is required.
It is not necessary that the topic(s) of the work relate directly to Classical archaeology.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/mst-classical-archaeology:
The MSt in Classical Archaeology is designed for those who wish to build on undergraduate studies in classical archaeology, as well as for those with experience in other areas of classical studies wishing to develop an understanding of the material culture.
The MSt provides the flexibility to allow you to choose from a wide range of periods which provide broad overviews, and detailed options focusing on different specific aspects of the subject.
You will choose one period module.
A list of typical period modules is provided below.
Not all modules run every year.
Not all modules listed will be available every year.
You may also be permitted to study an unlisted topic within Classical archaeology, or another directly related to it, provided that the topic is appropriate and teaching is available.
If you are seeking a broader course then you may, if you wish, in addition to one period option and one subject option, select a third subject from among those offered by a number of cognate disciplines.
Teaching is mainly through small-group tutorials or classes of usually one to five students, for which you prepare short essays on a weekly basis, supplemented by a wide range of lecture courses and graduate seminars.
Each member of the academic staff in Classical archaeology offers a different subject in their areas of specialism in each of the first two terms, so you can normally choose from about eight different subjects each term; these cover major topics from the Bronze Age to the Byzantine period.
Not all courses listed will be available every year.
The School of Archaeology also provides specialist skills seminars.
The School of Archaeology has lecture and seminar rooms and a common room.
There is also a small library at the Institute of Archaeology on Beaumont Street, while lectures and graduate seminars in Classical archaeology are also held in the nearby Ioannou Centre for Classical and Byzantine Studies, where there is another common room.
For students who choose to take modules in archaeological science, the Research Laboratory for Archaeology and the History of Art has a range of equipment for cutting edge techniques across scientific dating, bio-archaeology and materials analysis.
You will meet with your academic supervisor at least at the start of each term.
You will have a departmental supervisor, normally in your main area of interest, who may provide some of your teaching but will advise on option choices and monitor overall progress.
The subject options are examined by pairs of pre-set essays, submitted early in the following term, or you may choose to prepare a dissertation in place of one subject, submitted in the middle of the final term (Trinity term).
The final term is devoted to the broad study of a particular period, which is assessed by written examination at the end of the term.
There is also a compulsory viva voce examination for the whole course.
Many graduates from the MSt in Classical Archaeology continue to further degree programmes in Classical Archaeology or related fields (ancient history, museum studies) either at Oxford or at leading universities elsewhere, predominantly in the UK and the USA.
The following colleges accept students on the MSt in Classical Archaeology:
One professional reference is acceptable, but in cases where more than one such reference is sought you should contact the school to explain why this is necessary.
Please also list all subject and period options in which you might be interested.
It is not necessary that the topic(s) of the work relate directly to classical archaeology.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/mst-classical-armenian-studies:
This is an intensive one-year taught degree course.
It is intended to give students experience in reading and interpreting a wide range of Armenian texts, from a choice of genres, either as a stand-alone qualification or as a solid foundation in the subject for those intending to go on to do doctoral research.
Oxford is the only university in the UK where Armenian may be studied as a main subject.
Within the long span of Armenian history, the study of Armenia at Oxford concentrates on the period when Armenian sources give valuable information not only about Armenian culture itself, but also about neighbouring peoples of the Near East.
Emphasis is given to the study of the classical and medieval forms of the language and to Armenian literature from the fifth to the seventeenth centuries.
After an initial introduction to the grammar and syntax of classical Armenian, you will read a variety of texts.
An understanding of the literary culture of the period and the historical background is thus obtained directly from the original sources.
The course consists of four papers.
The first is a core course on the language, literature, history, and culture of Ancient and Medieval Armenia.
The remaining three papers are core courses on key Armenian literary genres.
For these papers you must choose to study texts in three of the following subjects:
Teaching offered consists of classes and tutorials and may include lectures and seminars.
Preparation for the core course is normally achieved through individual reading and six to eight tutorials for which essays not exceeding 2,500 words on set topics will be written and discussed.
The remaining three papers are prepared for in grammar and text reading classes for which thorough, extensive preparation is required of on average a minimum of four hours per hour in class.
Classes are normally offered for four or five hours a week during Michaelmas and Hilary terms (the first two terms of the academic year), as well as the first four weeks in Trinity term.
These are followed by three weeks of revision by the candidate(s) during which revision classes or meetings - online or in person - may be organised before the examinations which normally take place in week eight of Trinity term.
The Armenian resources of the Bodleian Library are excellent, and students also use the Nizami Ganjavi Library at the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies.
Adjacent to the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies is the Ashmolean Museum, which houses superb collections.
There is a computing room for the use of graduate students in the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies, as well as a common room where tea and coffee are available and staff and students can meet.
You will prepare for four examinations.
The core course examination paper will consist of essay questions.
You are generally required to answer three questions out of ten or so that are set.
The examination of the remaining three papers on key Armenian literary genres will consist of passages to be translated in the three types of text chosen by you, with brief questions on the background, content or grammar of the passages set.
Every candidate will be examined by oral examination ( viva voce ) unless they have been individually excused by the examiners.
If you're thinking about applying for this course, you may also wish to consider the courses listed below.
These courses may have been suggested due to their similarity with this course, or because they are offered by the same department or faculty.
The following colleges accept students on the MSt in Classical Armenian Studies:
Blackfriars Campion Hall Linacre College Pembroke College The Queen's College Regent's Park College St Cross College Wadham College Wolfson College Wycliffe Hall
If you have questions about the course, you may contact the Calouste Gulbenkian Professor of Armenian Studies, Professor Theo M van Lint or direct your questions in the first instance to the graduate administrator via the contact details provided on this page.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/mst-classical-hebrew-studies:
The MSt in Classical Hebrew Studies may be taken by those with no future study plans beyond a master's degree, however it has been designed for those with a basic knowledge of Biblical Hebrew (perhaps learned as part of a Theology or Biblical Studies degree) who wish to extend and deepen their linguistic and textual competence as a preparation for research.
You will take two compulsory papers, one on biblical texts and the other on history and literature.
You will also choose two others on such subjects as Hebrew language, textual criticism, epigraphy, Aramaic, Ugaritic, and Dead Sea Scrolls.
Teaching for certain options may not be available every year.
Within these constraints, the course offers considerable flexibility to suit your individual interests and needs.
For instance, the texts selected for study can be varied from year to year, while the optional papers may, with permission, be on any relevant subject (eg, early rabbinic texts, Septuagint).
A substantial part of the course may therefore be directed towards a possible future research topic.
The teaching takes two main forms.
Firstly, there are classes on the specified texts and on advanced Hebrew language throughout the year, which you are strongly recommended to attend as a matter of priority.
There may also be classes on your optional subjects, depending on what they are (Aramaic and Septuagint, for instance, are both taught in this way).
It is important to prepare for each class hour in advance, to enable you to make good progress over the year.
Secondly, you will receive individual supervision, usually for an hour each week, for which you are expected to prepare written work - usually an essay - on the basis of recommended reading.
Teaching for such subjects as history and literature is wholly conducted in this way, while you will also be given practice in the proper way in which to answer questions on specified texts.
Taken together, you should expect around six to eight contact hours per week during the first two terms, and slightly fewer in the third term to allow for revision time.
Classes are sometimes shared with those on other similar courses, and specialist teaching is provided by a number of different lecturers.
There are also seminars that you should attend on a regular basis, in particular the weekly Hebrew Bible/Old Testament seminars.
These are invaluable for learning about various methodologies employed in the field, but they also provide a venue for social and academic interaction with students and lecturers in adjacent fields.
During the course there are two vacations of six weeks each, during which you will be expected to keep working full time, with modest breaks for Christmas and Easter.
You will be given guidance about specific projects to be tackled, but will be advised to go back over the texts and other topics studied in the previous term in order to consolidate with wider reading, filling in gaps, and so on.
It is also helpful, if you are in a position to do so, to undertake preparatory work during the summer before you begin.
If you have the opportunity to discuss with your potential teachers at least some of the texts that you hope to study, you will find that you derive far more benefit from the classes if you have been able to prepare them as far as you are able in advance.
Numbers of students on the course are very small (1–2 per year) and so teaching is tailored according to the needs and interests of individual students.
Oxford is an important centre for Hebrew and Jewish studies and has been since the sixteenth century.
Students come from all over the world for both undergraduate and graduate studies, and there are unrivalled collections of Hebrew and Yiddish manuscripts and printed books in the Bodleian Library.
You will also be able to use the Nizami Ganjavi Library at the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies and the Leopold Muller Memorial Library.
The allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies.
At the end of the academic year, in June, you will sit two compulsory examinations (one on prepared and unprepared Biblical texts and the other on history and literature) and two further examinations for the two optional papers.
Asian and Middle Eastern studies graduates have found employment in many diverse fields including business, finance law, civil service, journalism, government and industry.
The following colleges accept students on the MSt in Classical Hebrew Studies:
Blackfriars Campion Hall Corpus Christi College Linacre College Mansfield College Oriel College Pembroke College Regent's Park College St Cross College Wadham College Wolfson College Wycliffe Hall
If you have any questions related to the contents of the course, you may contact the teaching staff.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/mphil-classical-indian-religion:
This course introduces you to the religions of India whose literature has been expressed primarily in Sanskrit and the Middle Indic languages, especially Prakrit and Pali.
The course provides an overview through the study of original sources in Sanskrit, as well as the opportunity to choose two Indian religious traditions in which to specialise.
The course is intended for those wishing to begin a new field of study at the graduate level or wishing to add a second field.
It can also serve as a preparation for careers in the arts, libraries, journalism, diplomacy, law, government service, non-governmental organisations, or secondary school education.
In the first part of the course, lasting five months, you will make an intensive study of the essentials of the Sanskrit language.
There will be daily homework exercises as well as memorisation of aspects of Sanskrit grammar and vocabulary.
At the same time you will attend a class on methods in the study of classical Indian culture, attend lectures and seminars, and write several tutorial essays related to general themes in Indian religion.
Following successful qualifying examination at the end of the first year, you will enter the second part of the course, which continues to the end of the second year.
You will have regular classes in reading Sanskrit texts.
For these classes you will prepare texts in advance and, along with your classmates, will read and translate them into English.
Your classes will cover prescribed lists of texts that belong to two Indian religious traditions, which you will have chosen from among five options:
It may also be possible to choose other options subject to availability.
You will also be given tutorials in these two traditions, for which you will read assigned secondary sources and prepare essays to discuss with your tutors.
There are also lectures and seminars regularly offered.
Students who come to Oxford with a significant background in Sanskrit may with permission attend advanced classes, or other language classes offered at Oxford, though they will not be explicitly examined in these languages.
You will be encouraged to attend lectures both in the faculty and elsewhere in the University, as your work permits and your interests dictate.
Oxford is home to an outstanding range of library and museum collections that provide invaluable resources for the study of India.
The Bodleian Library houses one of the largest and most significant collections of Sanskrit manuscripts in the world, outside of India.
The Indian Institute Library, now housed in the Weston Library, holds more than 130,000 titles, one of the most substantial collections of books for South Asian studies available in the UK.
The Weston Library also houses the Bodleian's Special Collections, including its Sanskrit and Tibetan manuscripts.
Open-stack access to the research core of the Indian Institute collection is available through the Charles Wendell Davis Reading Room, located on the top floor of the Weston, with commanding views of Oxford's old academic quarter.
There are also extensive collections pertaining to India in the Nizami Ganjavi Library at the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies, the Bodleian Art, Archaeology and Ancient World Library, and several of the colleges (especially Balliol, Wolfson, and St Antony's).
The Bodleian Law Library has extensive holdings related to law in India, with a primary focus on the laws of the Indian republic, rather than pre-1947 colonial legislation.
The Indian collections of the Ashmolean Museum are of international importance, and its coins, paintings, prints and textiles offer wider insights into some of the formative cultural influences operating in the subcontinent in the centuries when its modern languages were emerging.
The Museum of the History of Science has a unique collection of Indian scientific instruments, and the Pitt Rivers Museum comprises a collection of well over 15,000 items, covering most aspects of the daily life of Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs and Buddhists.
There is a computing room for the use of graduate students in the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies, as well as a common room where tea and coffee are available and staff and students can meet
At the end of the first year of the course there is a written examination of your ability to translate prepared texts in Sanskrit and of your knowledge of Sanskrit grammar.
In the second year, there is a timed examination in the textual component of the course.
This paper has two halves, one for translation of portions of texts that you have read during the course, and the other for translation from comparable sources in Sanskrit that you have not read before in a class.
There are also two timed examinations on the history of classical Indian religion, with the subject matter divided more or less chronologically.
In these papers you will write essays in response to questions posed on topics covered by your tutorials.
In addition to the three timed examinations you will also write a thesis.
It is usual to write the thesis mostly during the vacations, and it has to be handed in at the beginning of the final term.
Tutors will discuss the choice of topic with you and supply a bibliography, and may criticise a first draft, but the final version of the thesis is entirely your own work.
If you are subsequently admitted for a research degree, a successful MPhil thesis may form the basis of your doctoral dissertation.
Asian and Middle Eastern studies graduates have found employment in many and diverse fields including business, finance, law, civil service, journalism, government and industry.
Sanskrit is a difficult language to learn and evidence of experience of language learning is preferred.
Candidates would not need to do any additional preparations for their interview.
The following colleges accept students on the MPhil in Classical Indian Religion:
Balliol College Blackfriars Campion Hall Linacre College The Queen's College Regent's Park College St Cross College Wolfson College Wycliffe Hall
Your statement should be written in English and explain your motivation for applying for the course at Oxford, your relevant experience and education, the specific areas that interest you and/or you intend to specialise in, and a brief indication of your career plans.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-classical-languages-and-literature:
The best dissertations are published, many in the Oxford University Press series of Classical monographs which exists for this purpose.
Finally, it is fully recognised that some students will choose not to pursue a professional career in Classics, and the structures mentioned in the points above are tailored to their needs too.
The allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of the Faculty of Classics and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Where the project demands it, a supervisor may be found outside the Faculty of Classics.
Co-supervision is sometimes found a good arrangement for particular thesis subjects.
Most students have the opportunity to meet their supervisor twice a term, although more frequent meetings can be arranged as needed.
In most cases, you will initially be enrolled as a Probationary Research Student (PRS).
You will normally apply to transfer status from PRS to full DPhil student in your third term.
You will normally apply for confirmation of your DPhil status at the end of your second year.
This is assessed by two examiners on the basis of a sample of written work, a detailed thesis plan and a viva.
You will also be required to provide evidence of reading proficiency in German and one other language of scholarship (normally either French or Italian) in order to pass confirmation of status; the faculty organises dedicated classes in these languages.
If you are a part-time student, you will have twice as long to apply for both transfer and confirmation.
The degree is awarded on the basis of a thesis of up to 100,000 words based on original research; you are required to discuss the thesis at a viva with two examiners, normally one internal, one external.
When details on graduate destinations were last collected, the faculty found that an unusually high percentage of their successful DPhil students (56%) were in university teaching or research posts five years after finishing their doctorates.
If you apply whilst studying for a master's degree, these scores may be required as a condition of any offer made.
Interviews may be arranged for some doctoral applicants as part of the admissions process.
Interviews can take place in person or via telephone or Skype if travel to Oxford would be inconvenient for the candidate.
However, if you have any questions about the course content, teaching, assessment or any other aspect of the course, you are welcome to get in touch via the contact details on this page.
You are also free to approach potential supervisors and explain why you want to come and work in their particular field of study.
Please keep in mind that prospective supervisors are not in a position to make decisions about admission.
They can offer brief thoughts on research proposals, but extensive comment should not be expected.
Supervisors are allocated by the Graduate Studies Committee; efforts are made to meet graduates’ wishes where possible.
All references are expected to be academic; if you believe there is good reason for you to include one professional reference, please contact the Director of Graduate Studies before you apply.
The research proposal should describe the proposed thesis topic in some detail, explain why it is important and worthwhile, situate it within the existing research in the area in question and provide a basic account of methodology as well as a provisional timetable.
Extracts of the requisite length from longer work are also permissible provided that these are clearly indicated (highlight extracts in yellow).
Where necessary, a cover note may be attached to place an extract in a larger context.
Two extracts from one longer piece are acceptable, though two separate pieces are more illuminating.
Work should be submitted in English; submissions in other languages may be permissible after consultation with the Director of Graduate Studies, but at least one sample of written work should be in English and translated into or written in English by you.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/msc-clinical-therapeutic-neuroscience:
The course is designed to provide you with the knowledge and skills of advanced technologies, to conceptualise and run research projects that develop and test novel psychotropic and neurological agents.
The MSc taught course in Clinical and Therapeutic Neuroscience is a one-year course designed to equip students with the transferable skills required for a career in translational (“cell to patient”) research.
The course will offer you insights into a range of fields including molecular biology, brain imaging, behavioural research and epidemiology.
It is delivered by pre-clinical and clinical research teams based in the Department of Psychiatry, in other University of Oxford centres within the neuroscience community, and in the NIHR Oxford Cognitive Health Clinical Research Facility.
The course will provide you with:
The course will be delivered through a range of methods, including lectures, seminars, student presentations and independent learning and study.
You will participate in small group teaching and develop close working relationships with academic and project supervisors.
In addition to this, practical classes will enable you to acquire analytical skills required for the processing of structural biology, brain imaging and clinical trial data.
Students are expected to work for about 44-46 weeks in Oxford, and to spend about 20-25 hours per week on independent reading and work on essays and journal presentations.
Typically, there will be no more than 15 hours per week of contact time with teaching staff for every term.
Note that students are expected to study material covered in lectures in their own time.
Course lectures will take place in the Departments of Psychiatry and Pharmacology and the Nuffield Departments of Clinical Neurosciences and Clinical Medicine.
You will also have access to the extensive range of seminars and symposia in other departments in the University.
You are advised to visit the course page on the department's website to obtain further information on the course (see Further Information and Enquiries ).
All students enrolled on the MSc Clinical and Therapeutic Neuroscience course will be based in a dedicated open-plan office in the Department of Psychiatry.
You are welcome to use this space during the day for self-study both before and after your classes.
You will also be provided with a laptop and given access to a remote desktop connection for the duration of your MSc studies.
This will provide access to a variety of software required to support your studies which will involve several departments.
You are likely to find both the Cairns Library at the John Radcliffe Hospital and Radcliffe Science Library particularly helpful.
The allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of the Department of Psychiatry and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
A supervisor may be found outside the Department of Psychiatry and will also be offered by the Academic Advisor, Course Director and supervisor(s) of project rotations.
You will have the opportunity to meet individually with your supervisor at mutually agreed times.
This may include meeting once a term with the Course Director, and whenever necessary as agreed between you and the supervisor(s).
In addition to academic supervision, the graduate studies team within the department provide support and advice to students at all stages of their study.
This includes holding meetings to provide a forum for students to discuss their research and identify those working in related areas with whom they can share ideas.
Course assessments are based on four essays, two dissertations and an oral poster presentation.
The dissertations are based on two 12-week projects, one completed in the second term and the other in the third term.
You will be provided with a list of topics, some laboratory- and some clinic-based, and will have the opportunity to consult with project supervisors and submit a list or preferred topics.
Based on the course design and content, we anticipate that some MSc students will apply for PhD places in the UK and overseas and that others will carry on to medical school, work for pharmaceutical companies and health services around the world or as research assistants and clinical trials co-ordinators.
Other potential career destinations include positions as medical writers, patent lawyers, regulatory affair officers and medical sales representatives.
Successful completion of a professional training course or professional work experience in the health service or a health-related field may also be considered.
Applicants selected for interview will be notified within six weeks of the deadline for applications, usually by the end of January, and will be interviewed in mid-February.
Successful candidates will usually be informed within seven days.
The duration of the interview will be 15 minutes, and will be conducted by video link.
Applicants will be asked about their motivation to attend the course, their experience and knowledge of research (including a discussion of their last research project where applicable), and their interpretation of some data emailed to them shortly prior to the interview.
The interview panel will usually consist of the Course Director, Assistant Course Director, and one staff member from the departments hosting the course (Psychiatry, NDCN, NDM, Pharmacology).
An equal number of male and female interviewers will be selected.
The Department of Psychiatry offers supervision in a wide range of research areas including laboratory-based neuroscience, brain imaging, literature synthesis and psychological and pharmacological treatment research.
The Department of Psychiatry provides well-equipped suites for psychological testing and patient consultation as well as laboratories that support basic neuroscience, clinical and experimental medicine research.
There is also a brain imaging facility, the Oxford Centre for Human Brain Activity, on site.
These resources and other state-of-the art technologies are also provided by our allied departments in the Medical Sciences Division.
Students are also encouraged to attend seminars and research meetings which are held frequently within the department.
The department also offers up-to-date seminar room facilities.
Meeting rooms are also available for social and networking events.
The department also offers excellent IT facilities and support.
Please note that, depending on your choice of topic and the research required to complete it, it is possible that you may incur additional expenses.
You would need to meet those additional costs, although you may be able to apply for small grants from your department and/or college to help you cover some of these expenses.
The following colleges accept students on the MSc in Clinical and Therapeutic Neuroscience:
Brasenose College Exeter College Green Templeton College Hertford College Kellogg College Lady Margaret Hall Linacre College Lincoln College Magdalen College The Queen's College Reuben College St Anne's College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Edmund Hall St Hilda's College Wadham College Wolfson College Wycliffe Hall
Applicants can contact the course administrator with basic questions about the course and application process.
The set of documents you should send with your application to this course comprises the following:
Your references will support your intellectual ability, your academic achievement, your motivation and interest in the course and subject area, and your ability to work effectively both in a group and independently.
This course is offered by the Department of Psychiatry
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 618209

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/msc-clinical-embryology:
This one year, residential, taught MSc provides graduate students, scientists and clinicians with highly advanced theoretical and practical understanding of human reproductive biology, embryology, infertility and assisted reproductive technology (ART) along with intensive ‘hands-on’ practical training in essential laboratory skills and the sophisticated gamete micromanipulation techniques associated with ART.
The MSc course is based alongside TFP Oxford Fertility in purpose-built premises at the Institute of Reproductive Sciences, Oxford Business Park, with dedicated state-of-the-art teaching and research facilities.
The department’s intention is to inspire, motivate and train a network of future leaders in clinical embryology throughout the world.
The course runs over a period of one year, from October to September, incorporating the three University of Oxford terms: Michaelmas, Hilary and Trinity.
Fundamental reproductive science and laboratory methods/practical skills are taught in the first term (Michaelmas) over five discrete modules.
Applied and clinical aspects are delivered in the second term (Hilary) over a further set of five modules.
Each module is delivered over a period of one to three weeks and together, the ten modules comprise the ‘core content’ of the course.
The third term (Trinity) is extended to allow sufficient time for a high quality laboratory or desk-based research project.
The department places significant emphasis on the acquisition of practical laboratory skills.
A particular strength of the course is that you will be trained individually on micromanipulation and laser biopsy equipment using training beads, mouse oocytes, human sperm and surplus human oocytes when available.
You will spend significant amounts of time with TFP Oxford Fertility following senior clinicians in the clinic, and embryologists in the IVF laboratory.
You will also spend time with junior/trainee embryologists to discuss career options, writing CVs and you will meet visiting clinicians and embryologists from other leading UK IVF clinics.
The department’s staff will also provide significant insight into the legal issues surrounding ART, along with quality management, ethics and ISO-accreditation.
You will attend professional development seminars covering a wide range of topics including medical ethics, communication and presentation skills and experimental design.
The course is taught primarily by senior members of staff from the Nuffield Department of Women's & Reproductive Health and TFP Oxford Fertility.
A variety of teaching methods are used to enhance and optimise student learning: class lectures, group tutorials, laboratory practical classes, self-directed learning sessions, journal clubs, problem-based learning, workshops and in-house demonstrations by visiting companies.
You will also attend lectures given by visiting scientists who are world experts in their field.
Private study sessions are timetabled during Michaelmas and Hilary Term, students are expected to use this time to work on formative and summative assignments.
You will be provided with a desk space within the postgraduate study room and are encouraged to bring your own laptop which can be connected to the University's network and Wi-Fi.
Laser printing/photocopying facilities are available within the teaching facility.
IT support is predominantly provided by the Medical Sciences Division IT Unit, based at the John Radcliffe Hospital.
Further support is provided by Oxford University Computing Services (OUCS), who also provide an extensive range of short IT training courses.
The University of Oxford has an incredibly diverse library service including the Radcliffe Science Library.
MSc students predominantly utilise the Health Care Libraries, particularly the Cairns Library situated on the John Radcliffe Hospital site.
Experimental sessions are held in a dedicated modern laboratory equipped with a range of top quality equipment, including state-of-the-art gamete manipulation/injection systems.
Sufficient experimental apparatus is provided to allow each student significant ‘hands-on’ training.
The allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of the Nuffield Department of Women's and Reproductive Health and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Nuffield Department of Women's and Reproductive Health.
You will have the opportunity to receive individual mentorship by the Course Director and other members of the course staff throughout the course and whenever required.
You will also be allocated a Departmental Mentor (a senior member of the academic or clinical staff) and a Graduate Advisor within your college.
Most students meet their Departmental Mentor and their Graduate Advisor once a term.
There are five summative assessments in total:
Graduates go on to pursue careers in clinical embryology, and further research activities in reproductive, biological and biomedical science, assisted reproduction, clinical academic work and industry.
However, entrance is very competitive and most successful applicants have a GPA of 3.7.
Applicants are shortlisted on their academic ability.
All shortlisted applicants are interviewed, usually within three to four weeks of the application deadline.
Interviews are carried out online using video call/conference software.
If you are unable to use video call/conference, for example if internet connectivity is poor, then the interview would ordinarily be held by telephone conferencing.
Interviews normally last around 30 minutes and are carried out by the departmental selection committee, currently comprising the Director of Taught Programmes, MSc Course Director, a senior clinician, and the course coordinator.
There will be a minimum of two academics on the interview panel.
At the end of the interview, you will be offered the chance to ask questions about the course or studying in Oxford.
The Nuffield Department of Women's & Reproductive Health is one of the largest academic and clinical  departments in the world in its field, encompassing multi-disciplinary research across the full spectrum of women’s health.
There are around 180 people working in the department, including senior academic staff, research support staff, professional staff, and graduate students (including clinicians) carrying out research towards a higher degree.
The department's work has four overarching themes: cancer, global health, maternal and foetal health and reproductive medicine and genetics.
Our clinical and laboratory programmes are based in the Women’s Centre, John Radcliffe Hospital; the Weatherall Institute of Molecular Medicine; the Institute of Reproductive Sciences (IRS) and the Big Data Institute, and there are collaborations with the School’s Institutes, the University’s Science Departments and with researchers outside Oxford, in both the UK and abroad, especially in low middle income countries.
The laboratories of the Nuffield Department of Women's & Reproductive Health are fully equipped for a wide range of molecular and cell biology work with dedicated image analysis and flow cytometry facilities.
They are located in the Women’s Centre at the John Radcliffe Hospital, giving excellent access to patients and clinical samples for research from clinics, theatres and delivery suites.
The department maintains many special clinical services which help generate programmes of research.
Further laboratories are located at the Weatherall Institute of Molecular Medicine (at the John Radcliffe Hospital) and the Institute of Reproductive Sciences (IRS), Oxford Business Park.
The department has a variety of students studying towards research degrees, including students from both scientific and clinical backgrounds.
The basis of the department’s research programmes are laboratory or clinical projects in which you carry out independent research in your chosen area, as agreed with your supervisor.
You will have the option to attend national or international conferences in the field, such as meetings organised by the Society for Reproduction and Fertility, the British Andrology Society and the European Society for Human Reproduction & Embryology.
If you choose to attend such meetings, you will have to cover all expenses related to your attendance, eg travel and accommodation costs, registration fee, etc.
Costs for attending such meetings will depend entirely upon the precise location of the meeting.
As a rough guide, attendance of the basic ESHRE meeting is likely to cost in the region of £600 to £900, while attendance at national meetings are more likely to cost £200 to £300.
The following colleges accept students on the MSc in Clinical Embryology:
Green Templeton College Jesus College Kellogg College Linacre College Lincoln College Reuben College St Anne's College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Edmund Hall St Hugh's College Somerville College Trinity College Wolfson College Wycliffe Hall
You are encouraged to visit the relevant departmental webpages to read any further information about the course and to direct any initial enquiries to the Course Coordinator .
However, it is not a prerequisite to contact course staff before you apply.
One professional reference is acceptable, provided it is accompanied by two academic references.
Your references will support intellectual ability, academic achievement, motivation, and ability to work in a group.
Your statement should describe why you wish to pursue the MSc in Clinical Embryology and how the course might influence your future career prospects.
It should be written in English.
It will be assessed for:
This course is offered by the Nuffield Department of Women's & Reproductive Health
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 618902

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-clinical-epidemiology-medical-statistics:
As a DPhil student in Clinical Epidemiology and Medical Statistics, you will be based in one of the Botnar Research Centre’s many research groups, working on a research project supervised by one of the principal investigators and your supervisory team.
You will take part in the extensive training programme specifically organised for graduate students within the department.
This DPhil programme focuses on epidemiology, medical statistics, clinical trials, real world health data, research methodology, artificial intelligence and machine learning, and health economics - aiming to advance healthcare practice and policy to ultimately generate reliable evidence for improving patient care.
You will develop your research skills during your first year (during your first two years if studying part-time), including compulsory attendance at the department's fundamentals in biomedical research lectures.
During the first term, in consultation with your supervisor, you will develop a training needs plan.
Your training will be tailored to your specific project and personal requirements drawing from the vast range of courses available at Oxford and covering specialist scientific methods and transferable skills.
Please note that there is no formal taught component of the DPhil in Clinical Epidemiology and Medical Statistics; however, you will develop your research skills through a range of research training and by attending departmental/institute journal clubs and seminar series.
During the first term there is compulsory attendance at core lectures on a variety of research techniques and research areas covered in the department including:
During your first year if studying full-time (first two years if studying part-time), you will be expected to attend a minimum of three topic-related modules.
As a member of Medical Sciences Graduate School, you will be entitled to attend various workshops run by the Medical Sciences Skills Training programme which are run during term time.
Attendance on a two-day Data Analysis: Statistics Designing Clinical Research and Biostatistics course is compulsory (if you have had no previous statistical training) to assist you with appropriate research design.
As a component of your training, you will be expected to work with your supervisory team to write a research-specific literature review within the first year of your studies if studying full-time (first two years if studying part-time).
The full-time course is studied over three to four years.
The part-time course has the same requirements, but is studied over six to eight years.
As a part-time student you will be required to attend induction week, core and specialised lectures, departmental seminars, and workshops as well as individual/group research meetings with your supervisors.
You will have the opportunity to tailor your part-time study in liaison with your supervisor and agree your pattern of attendance.
Attendance in person will be required during term-time as determined by mutual agreement with your supervisor.
This will solely depend on the nature of your studies (clinical or basic science) and the percentage of FTE that you will be conducting your research (no less than 0.5 FTE).
Attendance outside of term-time will be similar to that during the academic terms.
Research protocol and experimentation should be planned and completed based on the available timeline for submission of various milestones set by the division.
You will also be required to attend termly meetings with your Director of Graduate Studies (DGS) to discuss your academic progress.
There is student representation within the various departmental committees, providing student-led support as well as representing students’ interests in departmental decision-making.
You will have access to a wide range of resources within the department and University, including the following facilities.
You will have access to the Cairns Library based in the John Radcliffe Hospital and musculoskeletal-related topics at the Girdlestone Library located at the Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre's Knowledge Centre on the Old Road Campus.
You will be allocated an office space/working station that may be shared undertaking data analyses and computer-based research.
You will be notified by regular emails about seminar schedules within the department and you are encouraged to visit the Oxford Talk website to access other departments' and divisions' seminars and lectures.
There is an active student committee which organises regular social events, a Christmas gathering with a band, and a picnic in the park during the summer.
At least two students are represented at the department’s Graduate Studies Committee, the Athena SWAN Committee and the University's Graduate Joint Consultative Committee to express students' opinions, concerns and views.
The allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of Medical Sciences and the Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics, Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal Sciences (NDORMS) and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may come from other departments in the University.
All students must have a core supervisory team of at least two supervisors.
At the beginning of your course, you will have the opportunity to meet with your supervisors to finalise your project and agree on an initial programme of research.
Within the first three months, you will complete an analysis of your training needs (TNA) for the duration of your research, with your primary supervisor, and submit it as part of your compulsory termly reporting through the Graduate Supervision Reporting system (GSR).
Regularity of student/supervisor meetings should be agreed between the student and supervisors directly.
Most students have the opportunity to meet their supervisors at least once per month.
The Thesis Committee is an important second strand of supervisory support and is compulsory at the Botnar Research Centre; further information can be provided by the Graduate Studies Team.
Within the first six to twelve months you are expected to complete a literature review on your DPhil research which will assist you in have a broad knowledge on the background of the subject.
In the case of students who require specific help to adjust to an academic programme or to a new range of skills, the supervisor will work with them to ensure that they have the necessary additional support.
Your attainment will be monitored regularly via:
Stages 2, 3 and 4 will be assessed by two independent senior academics to ensure you are on track with your research and that you are receiving adequate guidance.
According to the department's records, NDORMS alumni are employed, across a wide range of clinical professions (eg rheumatology, orthopaedics or physiotherapy) and non-clinical related professions (eg in postdoctoral academic and industrial research, teaching, pharmaceuticals, marketing and scientific writing).
A number of alumni have set up their own businesses or changed paths completely, into banking or medical writing.
The Director of Graduate Studies and Graduate Studies Assistant follow the department's alumni to establish the long-term career paths of past students.
The department also considers applicants from medically qualified individuals.
In special circumstances, applications from other medically related subjects (eg nurses, and/or allied health professionals) will be considered for the DPhil.
If you fall into this category, please contact the Graduate Studies Officer .
You do not need to have a previous master's degree to be considered for this DPhil.
All shortlisted candidates will be interviewed in person or by video-conference.
The interview will be conducted by up to six senior academics and it will last a maximum of 30 minutes.
Those shortlisted for interviews will be notified 7 to 14 days prior to the interview date.
The shortlisted applicants will be required to give a 5 minute presentation on their previous research or that proposed to be undertaken for the DPhil.
The Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics, Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal Sciences (NDORMS) is a vibrant multi-disciplinary department focusing on musculoskeletal and immunological diseases, and epidemiological research, from bench to bedside.
The Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics, Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal Sciences (NDORMS) is a large multi- disciplinary department, with a broad range of sciences related to medicine.
Research spans the translational research spectrum, from basic biological research through to clinical and epidemiological research.
NDORMS is the largest European academic department in its field and runs a globally competitive programme of research and teaching.
Committed to training the next generation of scientists in biological and clinical sciences, NDORMS has over 400 staff, approximately 120 postgraduate research students and a grant portfolio in excess of £150 million.
NDORMS has state-of-the-art research facilities across the spectrum of our research expertise.
NDORMS has two institutes, the Botnar Research Centre (led by Professor Jonathan Rees) on the Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre (NOC) site, and the Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology (led by Professor Fiona Powrie) on the Old Road Campus.
It also has a number of world-renowned units, including the Centre for Statistics in Medicine (led by Professor Gary Collins), the Oxford Clinical Trials Research Unit and the Kadoorie Centre for Critical Care Research (led by Professor Matt Costa) and Education (based in the John Radcliffe Hospital).
The Botnar Research Institute provides a unique setting for basic science researchers, statisticians and clinical trials experts to interact with clinician scientists, and to translate new experimental medicines and surgical designs into successful treatments.
The Botnar Research Centre is strongly connected to the internationally renowned NOC, providing crucial access to patients' samples and an overall capacity for clinical and surgical trials.
The Kennedy Institute carries out basic and clinical research in chronic inflammatory and degenerative diseases including arthritis and inflammatory bowel disease.
The Kennedy Institute is famous for its development of anti-TNF therapy to treat rheumatoid arthritis, a chronic debilitating disease.
This treatment has improved the lives of millions of patients around the world.
Before you apply, please consult the project list on the ‘study with us’ section of the department’s website.
You may apply for a maximum of 3 separate advertised projects on 1 application.
Alternatively, you may consult the list of principal investigators to identify potential supervisors who may be willing to supervise your own research proposal.
If you intend to submit your own research proposal, you must first contact a potential supervisor directly to ensure that they are willing to supervise you and have the resources to support your proposed research project.
If you submit your own research proposal without a named supervisor, your application will not be considered.
You are also strongly recommended to contact the NDORMS Graduate Studies Team, using the contact details on this page, in advance of making an application.
When applying for advertised projects, under 'Field and title of research project', you are required to list and rank the projects from the project list on the department’s website  You should quote the project reference code for each of your chosen projects.
Alternatively, if you have contacted a potential supervisor and have received approval to submit your own research proposal, please enter the project title or proposed research area.
Under 'Proposed supervisor name' enter the name of the academic whose project you are applying for.
As you are allowed to apply for a maximum of 3 projects per application, please include a maximum of 3 academics.
Alternatively, if you are applying with your own research proposal, you should enter the name of the supervisor who has indicated they are willing to supervise your research.
One professional reference is acceptable, though your other references should be academic and should comment specifically on your academic ability.
Your references should support your intellectual ability, academic achievement, motivation and ability to work independently.
All applicants should submit a personal statement.
If you are not applying for specified studentships, you will also need to submit a research proposal.
A research proposal should only be submitted if you are not applying for a specified studentship.
Your research proposal, should comprise a detailed outline of your proposed research, written in English.
The research proposal should include details of the background/rationale of the research, hypotheses and methodology.
It should explain the originality/novelty of the work and outline how completion within twelve academic terms (ie four years) can be achieved.
The overall word count, of no more than 2,000 words, should include any bibliography.
*Two-year average (applications for entry in 2023-24 and 2024-25) † New part-time course for entry in 2025-26
This course is offered by the Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics, Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal Sciences

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-clinical-medicine:
As a DPhil in Clinical Medicine student, you will conduct research in basic science and/or in clinical medicine.
The degree will provide you with research skills, in-depth knowledge, understanding and expertise in your chosen field of research.
Research subjects cover a broad spectrum of sciences related to medicine and include: behavioural science, bioinformatics & statistics (including modelling and computational biology), cell and molecular biology, clinical epidemiology, drug discovery, genetics and genomics, global health and tropical medicine, immunology, integrative physiology (systems biology), microbiology, protein science and structural biology, and transcription biology.
Doctoral students within the Nuffield Department of Medicine carry out research in a single laboratory and there is no period of rotation between laboratories.
All doctoral students develop their skills through a range of research training and skills development in their first year of full- time study or first two years of part-time study, by attending compulsory and optional training in laboratory techniques and generic skills, including scientific writing and statistics, while also working at the bench.
You will have access to, and be encouraged to attend, the lectures and seminars that individual research groups or groups with common areas of interest organise for their own members and others.
This will depend on the specific unit/area within which you are housed.
Medical Grand Rounds are also held in the graduate centre at the John Radcliffe Hospital.
You will have access to the other departmental seminars announced via email.
You will also have access to doctoral training and research methods provision available across the Medical Sciences Division.
The aim is to tailor this training to individual needs and bring all students up to satisfactory level in background knowledge.
Later training is focused on the skills required for a successful career in independent research.
You may be required to attend fieldwork / laboratory / training sessions on dates to be determined by mutual agreement with your supervisor.
The Nuffield Department of Medicine (NDM) comprises research groups in several institutes and laboratories, including:
Students housed within the NDM-BDI can describe their DPhil subject as Biomedical Data Science.
Those within Tropical Medicine and associated within the Africa and Asia Programmes (MORU, OUCRU and KEMRI) can describe their DPhil subject as Tropical Medicine and Global Health.
In exceptional cases, students may be admitted to study for the MSc by Research degree.
This course can be studied on a full-time or part-time basis.
The part-time course is usually studied over six to eight years.
If you are studying part-time, you will have the opportunity to tailor your study in liaison with your supervisor and agree your pattern of attendance.
Students on this course are part of the Medical Sciences Division; lectures and seminars cut across departments and collaborations are widespread within the University.
You will be based in various units, building and campuses around Oxford, as well as in Tropical Medicine Units abroad.
A list of units can be found under the Research groups heading above (units are located in Oxford, unless stated otherwise).
Full-time students who aren't based at a Tropical Medicine Unit are subject to the University's Residence requirements .
Part-time students who aren't based at a Tropical Medicine Unit are required to attend in Oxford for a minimum of 30 days each year.
This time will be spent attending supervision meetings, skills training and other obligations.
You will have access to the department’s IT support, University Library services such as the Radcliffe Science Library and the Cairns Library, and experimental facilities are available as appropriate to the research topic.
The NDM takes the creation of supervisory teams very seriously and this will form an important part of the admissions process.
All students must have at least two supervisors and many will have more than two.
Within the NDM, students should meet with their supervisors at least once a fortnight, on average, across a year.
Please note that the allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of the Nuffield Department of Medicine and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Nuffield Department of Medicine.
DPhil students must pass two milestone assessments during their research career:
Students are expected to submit their thesis within three to four years of admission to the DPhil.
A viva (oral examination) is then conducted, normally within three months of submission.
DPhil in Clinical Medicine students follow a wide variety of career paths, including all branches of biomedical research, clinical medicine, teaching, health administration and commerce.
A master's degree is not required.
Nuffield Department of Medicine students have a wide range of qualifications and while most of our students achieved an upper second-class or first-class (or equivalent) in their undergraduate degree, the department recognises that strong students come from a diverse range of academic and professional backgrounds, some of which may include a degree with a lower classification.
For example, someone who has achieved a second-class in their undergraduate degree but has achieved a merit or distinction in their master’s might be a competitive candidate.
Please note, in considering applicants’ achievements and their suitability for a place on the DPhil in Clinical Medicine, the Nuffield Department of Medicine  takes a holistic approach and a range of contextual factors, looking at each applicant’s individual circumstances, will be taken into account.
Shortlisted candidates are interviewed as part of the admissions process.
Interviews will be conducted via Zoom or in person.
The interview will consist of a five-minute presentation by the applicant on the research they would like to do in the department, followed by 20 minutes of questioning from the panel.
Applicants will among other matters be asked about their interest in their chosen DPhil project theme/s and what they see as the priorities for the project.
An example interview question is: “Can you describe the key question within the research theme that you want to address?”.
The Nuffield Department of Clinical Medicine (NDM) is a large multidisciplinary department, made up of 24 institutes, centres and units.
Some of these are based at the University of Oxford’s Old Road Campus, the heart of Oxford’s biomedical research and clinical capabilities, with others situated at the Churchill and John Radcliffe Hospitals in Oxford.
The underpinning motivation behind all research carried out by NDM is the pursuit of academic excellence and the positive impact of research on the health and wellbeing of the global community.
The department has units across the world, including in Kenya, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, Myanmar, Nepal, Vietnam and Indonesia.
NDM is just as renowned for its work in basic sciences as more clinical or applied work.
Much of the £130 million per annum grant income is spent on understanding the most basic principles of biology and disease pathogenesis.
NDM has a community of over 50 graduate research students each year.
The Careers Service at Oxford University reports that six months after leaving Oxford, postgraduate research students at NDM are on average earning £31,000 with 83.8% in employment and a further 11% in further study (eg Graduate Entry Medicine).
Regardless of whether you are applying to one of the advertised DPhil themes or you are applying with your own research proposal, you must identify academic members of staff who are willing to supervise you and/or have the resources to support your proposed research project.
The purpose of contacting a supervisor is to learn more about the project theme and/or lab, and determine whether there would be a good fit between what you are looking for and what the lab can offer.
To contact supervisors, begin by looking through the project themes on the department website and identify up to three to four supervisors you may be interested in working with (you will need to narrow this down to no more than two project themes by the application stage).
You should email your proposed supervisors well in advance of the application deadline to indicate that you are interested in applying for a DPhil in their research group.
If you do not receive a response after one week, you may wish to send a follow-up email.
Supervisors receive a high volume of emails daily, and may have overlooked your original message.
Potential supervisors will be pleased to hear from you and may be able to offer personalised advice for your application.
You may wish to use the below template when contacting a proposed supervisor:
Dear [supervisor’s name],
I’m contacting you regarding your advertised DPhil project theme, [ project theme name ], in the Nuffield Department of Medicine.
I would be interested in applying to your project theme because [maximum two sentences].
My recent educational/professional background is [maximum three sentences].
It may also be relevant to let you know that [optional; maximum two sentences; you might want to comment on contextual circumstances we should be aware of or additional factors around your educational/professional experience].
I would be happy to provide more details or discuss this further via email or a call.
Thank you for your time.
Kind regards,
[Your name]
Please note that this template is for the purposes of initial contact with a proposed supervisor only and does not constitute an application.
Once a supervisor has agreed in principle to support your application, you will need to submit an application to the DPhil in Clinical Medicine following the ‘Apply’ buttons at the bottom of this page.
If you are applying to an advertised DPhil theme, enter the advertised research theme number(s) of up to two DPhil theme(s) under 'Proposed field and title of research project', in order of preference or indicating equal preference.
If you are applying with your own research proposal, enter your project title and summary, as agreed with your potential supervisor (s) under 'Proposed field and title of research project'.
If you are applying to an advertised DPhil theme, under 'Proposed supervisor name' enter the names of the supervisors for your chosen theme(s) listing them in order of theme preference or indicating equal preference.
Details of the available supervisors and their advertised themes can be found on the department's website.
If you are applying with your own research proposal, enter the name of the supervisor(s) who has agreed to consider your application.
References should usually be academic, though professional references are acceptable where they relate to work within a research setting.
All applicants need to submit a statement of purpose/personal statement.
If you are applying for advertised DPhil themes you do not need to provide a research proposal and should not submit one with your application.
If you decide to submit your own research proposal for your DPhil project , then this should be provided in addition to your personal statement.
In your research proposal, you may also wish to outline briefly relevant personal achievements, interests and aspirations.
Your proposal should be written in English and the overall word count should include any bibliography.
The research proposal should be a maximum of 500 words.
Your research proposal will be assessed for:
This course is offered by the Nuffield Department of Clinical Medicine
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 287820

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-clinical-neurosciences:
The DPhil in Clinical Neurosciences offers excellent opportunities for high quality research training, for both clinical and non-clinical graduates, in wide-ranging leading areas of clinical neuroscience.
As a doctoral student in the Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences (NDCN) you will be a part of one of the leading and largest clinical neuroscience departments in Europe.
The DPhil in Clinical Neurosciences will develop your skills through a range of research and practical training.
The department offers excellent opportunities for high quality research training in wide-ranging leading areas of clinical neuroscience.
Much of the graduate research in the department is interdisciplinary and in collaboration with research leaders at other research centres.
NDCN incorporates six divisions each of which hosts world-leading programmes in basic, translational and clinical research.
You will be admitted directly to a particular research area and you will work alongside your supervisors to develop your programme of study which is normally part of a larger research group with shared interests.
You will not normally do laboratory rotations.
There are no taught courses examined by written papers but there is a wide range of courses and workshops available across the Medical Sciences Division and you will be encouraged to attend regular departmental and divisional seminars.
Completing the DPhil on a part-time basis normally requires between six and eight years of study, compared with a full-time DPhil which normally takes three to four years to complete.
For part-time students on this course, attendance of a minimum of thirty days of university-based work each year will be arranged with the agreement of your supervisor(s), for the period that your name remains on the Register of Graduate Students, unless individually dispensed by the Board.
During a candidate’s probationary period the attendance arrangements must take account of relevant induction and training events scheduled by the Board.
You will have the opportunity to tailor your part-time research in liaison with your supervisor and agree your pattern of attendance.
Workspace will be related to individual circumstances: if undertaking experimental work, bench space will be provided within a laboratory; if undertaking theoretical research, there will be shared office space.
The provision of other resources specific to a project should be agreed with the supervisor as part of the planning stages of the agreed project as financial support from the department must not be assumed.
Once enrolled on the DPhil, the allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of the Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences.
Information about supervisors connected with this course can be found on the NDCN website.
In the case of students who require specific help to adjust to an academic programme or to a new range of skills, the supervisor will work with them to ensure that they have additional support.
The department is often able to financially support the undertaking of formal skills training that is essential to the successful completion of the DPhil and/or relevant conference attendance.
In line with the Divisional Code of Practice for supervisors, formal meetings outside the lab between student and supervisor should take place at least once per term (so 3 times per year) whereas meetings with day-to-day supervisors should take place much more frequently (around 26 times per year, equating to roughly fortnightly).
The Graduate Supervision Reporting (GSR) system asks both students and supervisors to record the frequency of meetings during the term retrospectively being reported on.
You will begin your course as a probationary research student (PRS) and you will be monitored and assessed regularly via completion of termly reports by you and your supervisors through the Graduate Supervision Reporting (GSR) system.
You will be expected to transfer your status from PRS to DPhil (PhD) before the end of your fourth term if you are a full-time student.
Part-time students must complete a minimum of four terms before applying for transfer, with a maximum time limit of eight terms.
For this, you will be required to submit a written report summarising your progress to date, which you will then discuss and defend in an oral examination (a transfer viva).
During your third year you will need to confirm your DPhil status through a formal assessment to ensure that you are on course to complete your studies within the three- to four-year time frame expected for a full-time student.
You will be expected to confirm your status before the end of your ninth term if you are a full-time student.
Part-time students have a corresponding maximum limit of 18 terms to confirm status.
You will be required to give a presentation and attend an interview.
The doctoral work will culminate in a thesis that will be defended in an oral examination ( viva voce ) after three or at most four years from the date of admission for full-time students and six or at most eight years for part-time students.
Past students from the Department of Clinical Neurosciences have gone on to careers based both in the UK and other countries in teaching and research in universities or back to clinical posts.
You can find a number of alumni profiles on the NDCN website.
A master's degree is not a prerequisite for admission.
If no requirements are listed for the country in which you obtained your degree, please email the department before applying to check whether an application from you could be considered.
Interviews are normally held as part of the admissions process, and can be online or in person.
Interviews following the December application deadline are expected to take place around the middle of January each year.
Interviews typically last for 20-30 minutes.
There will be a minimum of three academics on the panel and details of the interview format will be provided to you after shortlisting.
The Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences (NDCN) comprises around 500 staff including over 150 graduate students.
The department has state-of-the-art laboratories with most of its staff housed in the West Wing and the adjacent WIN (Wellcome Centre for Integrative Neuroimaging) building at the John Radcliffe Hospital site.
The West Wing also includes the in- and outpatient facilities for the clinical Departments of Neurology, Neurosurgery, Neuroanaesthetics, Ophthalmology and ENT, which are closely integrated with NDCN.
This provides the perfect setting to share facilities, expertise and knowledge.
">Video of Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences Graduate Studies
NDCN was formed in November 2010 and incorporates the Centre for Prevention of Stroke and Dementia, the Division of Clinical Neurology, the MRC Brain Network Dynamics Unit, the Nuffield Division of Anaesthetics, the Nuffield Laboratory of Ophthalmology (which also houses sleep medicine research) and the Wellcome Centre for Integrative Neuroimaging.
The department usually admits students from both scientific and clinical backgrounds.
Each research student will work on a specified research project with close supervision from one or more of the department’s principal investigators and their teams, and become part of a vibrant research community both within the department and the wider University.
Further information about funding opportunities for this course can be found on the department's website for both divisional funding and external funding .
You will need to meet these additional costs, although you may be able to apply for funding from your department and/or college to help you cover some of these expenses.
If you are unsure of who you might contact as a potential supervisor, please contact the NDCN Academic Administration team in the first instance.
When you have made a shortlist of up to three potential supervisors, you must email them individually and explain clearly:
They will then confirm whether or not they are happy to be listed as the proposed supervisor on the application form.
Note that proposed supervisors will be asked to confirm their support for your application after the department receives your application, so it is in your best interest to make sure you have their agreement before applying.
Please note that the support of a supervisor at this stage does not imply that you will be admitted.
Please note, you should only submit your application once you have secured the support of a prospective supervisor at NDCN and agreed a proposed research project.
Please note, the Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences does not ask for any written work as part of the admissions process.
Individual supervisors may ask to see written work when an initial enquiry is made by a prospective student.
Under the 'Field and title of research project' please enter the title of the proposed project you have agreed with the NDCN supervisor(s) who is supporting your application.
your proposed field or area of research if this is known.
Under 'Proposed supervisor name' enter the name of the academic (s) who has agreed to support your application prior to you applying.
Note that proposed supervisors will be asked to confirm their support for your application after the department receives your application, so it is in your best interest to make sure you have their agreement before submitting your application listing them.
You may use either academic of professional references.
A research proposal comprising a detailed outline of your proposed research, written in English, is required.
It is expected that you will prepare your research proposal in consultation with a potential supervisor.
Any bibliography or brief footnotes should not be included in the word count.
Submissions that exceed the word count may be penalised.
Your proposal should focus on research rather than personal achievements, interests and aspirations.
This course is offered by the Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/msc-research-clinical-neurosciences:
The MSc by Research in Clinical Neurosciences offers excellent opportunities for high quality research training, for both clinical and non-clinical graduates, in wide-ranging leading areas of clinical neuroscience.
As an MSc by research student in Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences (NDCN) you will be a part of one of the leading and largest clinical neuroscience departments in Europe.
The MSc (Res) in Clinical Neurosciences will develop your skills through a range of research and practical training.
There are no taught courses examined by written papers but there is a wide range of courses and workshops available across the Medical Sciences Division and you will be encouraged to attend regular departmental and divisional seminars
The MSc (Res) in Clinical Neurosciences is normally a two-year course if studied full-time, though if you have an appropriate background in research, you may complete it in one year.
Completing this course on a part-time basis normally requires between two and six years of study, compared with the full-time master's course which takes between one and three years to complete.
For part-time students the minimum of thirty days of university-based work each year will be arranged with the agreement of your supervisor(s), for the period that your name remains on the Register of Graduate Students, unless individually dispensed by the Board.
If undertaking experimental work, bench space will be provided within a laboratory; if undertaking theoretical research, there will be shared office space.
Once enrolled on the MSc (Res) the allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of the Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
In line with the Divisional Code of Practice for supervisors, formal meetings outside the lab between student and supervisor should take place at least once per term (so three times per year) whereas meetings with day-to-day supervisors should take place much more frequently (c.
26 times per year, equating to roughly fortnightly).
The Graduate Supervision Reporting (GSR) system asks both students and supervisors to record the frequency of meetings during the term being reported on retrospectively.
The department is often able to financially support the undertaking of formal skills training that is essential to the successful completion of the MSc (Res) and/or relevant conference attendance.
You will be expected to transfer your status from PRS to MSc (Res) before the end of your first year (or second year if you are studying part-time).
To transfer your status, you must apply formally, submit a research report and statement of future research plans, and take an independent assessment conducted by two assessors.
The degree is examined by thesis and oral examination by two examiners.
Most full-time MSc (Res) students submit their thesis within two years; for part-time students this is more often 3 to 6 years.
Interviews are normally held as part of the admissions process, and can be held online or in person.
There will be a minimum of three academics on the panel and the details of the interview format will be provided to you after shortlisting.
Further information about funding opportunities for this course can be found on the department's website for both divisional funding opportunities and external funding sources .
With the exception of studentships, all other applications must be submitted having secured the support of a prospective supervisor at NDCN and having agreed a proposed research project.
Please note that proposed supervisors will be asked to confirm their support for your application after the department receives your application, so it is in your best interest to make sure you have their agreement before listing them on your application.
Your references will support intellectual ability, academic achievement, motivation and your ability to work in a group.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dclinpsych-clinical-psychology:
The Medical Sciences Division offers several courses that don't use the standard application process.
In most cases, you should follow the advice shown on the relevant course page.
The courses listed below do not have a dedicated course page on this website, so you should follow the advice on this page.
This three-year, full-time course leads to the qualification of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsych) from the University of Oxford.
The course aims to provide a thorough and integrated academic, clinical and research training in clinical psychology.
On successful completion, you will be eligible to apply for registration with the Health & Care Professions Council and for Chartered status with the British Psychological Society.
The course is unique in being fully funded and run from within the NHS.
All trainees are currently employed by the Oxfordshire Mental Healthcare NHS Trust and are associate members of one of the following colleges: Harris Manchester College , Green Templeton College , St Cross College , or Worcester College .
For further information , visit the Oxford Institute of Clinical Psychology Training website or contact the admissions team directly by email .
For information about the course and admissions process , please refer to the course page on the Undergraduate Admissions website.
Admissions for this course are managed by the Undergraduate Admissions office.
All enquiries about this programme should be directed to the Medical School using the contact details shown below.
For information about admission to the pre-clinical stage of medical training , please see the accelerated course details and prospectus on the Medical Sciences Division website.
If you have a query about the pre-clinical stage of medical training, please contact the Medical School directly by email (via [email protected] ).
For information about admission to the clinical stage of medical training please contact the Medical School by email for further information (via [email protected] ).
The courses listed below use a non-standard application process, but do have a dedicated course page on this website:

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/msc-clinical-trials:
The MSc in Clinical Trials is a two-year, part-time distance learning course that provides a thorough training in both the theoretical and practical aspects of conducting randomised clinical trials.
By the end of the course, students should have the knowledge and skills required to design and undertake a clinical trial.
By running a fully integrated course covering all key aspects of clinical trials, you will acquire a good understanding of the theoretical underpinning as well as the practical aspects of randomised clinical trials and have an in-depth training in trials methodology.
The course will cover different types of trials and clinical conditions, with a focus on large, streamlined clinical outcome trials in cardiovascular disease.
The specific aims are to provide:
Teaching is delivered virtually (via online lectures, tutorials and group work) during the first year, and for the first two whole terms and part of the third term in the second year.
You will receive around three hours of supported study per week and will be expected to complete twelve to seventeen hours per week of self-directed study.
The curriculum comprises eight compulsory modules of varying length and intensity across six terms:
The course will include two residential periods.
The first will be a one-week residential period in the Long Vacation at the end of year one.
A shorter residential period will take place in Hilary term in year two.
The aim of the first residential period is to allow you to meet the tutors and course teaching team and to provide face-to-face teaching, discussion time and leadership training.
The second residential period aims to allow discussion about dissertation content, practical guidance on statistical content and an opportunity for face-to-face discussion with your academic advisor.
You will have access to recordings of weekly seminars held on the Old Road Campus and will be made aware of any other online seminars taking place across the Medical Sciences Division.
You are encouraged to make use of any online courses offered by the Medical Sciences Skills Training programme.
This course is part-time and teaching is delivered virtually with two residential periods in Oxford.
You must attend at least one residential period during the course.
You will receive full access to the virtual learning environment (Canvas) where lectures, seminars and tutorials will occur.
You will have access to the online University library services and online reading lists.
The allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of the Nuffield Department of Population Health and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
A supervisor may be found outside the Nuffield Department of Population Health.
Each student will be assigned an academic supervisor who will support them through the duration of the course.
Students may also be assigned a dissertation supervisor related to their chosen dissertation topic.
Most students have the opportunity to meet with their supervisor once every three to four weeks.
During all six terms of the course there will be a series of formative assessments designed to enable teaching staff and the students to monitor progress.
These assessments are compulsory but the marks do not contribute to the final degree.
All students are provided with detailed feedback that will enable them to improve their learning by helping them identify their strengths and weaknesses.
There are five summative assessments in total.
In Hilary term of year one, a written assignment is submitted.
The examination will be held at the end of the year one Long Vacation period.
During Michaelmas term of year two a written assignment will be submitted.
During Trinity term of year two students will give a presentation and finally you will write a dissertation that will be submitted in the Long Vacation of year two.
It is expected that MSc in Clinical Trials graduates will return to their full-time roles, but may include more clinical trials/studies in their duties.
Some students may wish to progress to DPhil study.
The course will be open to health professionals (eg physicians, surgeons and nurses), postgraduate scientists or statisticians (eg from industry, contract research organisations, regulatory agencies) and experienced trial managers.
Candidates will usually hold a doctoral or masters qualification and will be working in a health profession or as a post-graduate scientist, though this is not a requirement of entry.
Applications will be shortlisted using a scoring system that takes into account the applicant’s degree, trials experience, prizes, research experiences, references and their proposal.
Interviews are expected to be held online from mid-February to mid-March.
Interviews will normally last around 15 to 20 minutes and will be conducted by an admissions panel of senior academics.
The Nuffield Department of Population Health (NDPH) brings together over 600 staff and 200 students from a number of world-leading research groups with the aim of reducing premature death and disability from human disease.
A number of world-renowned research groups and disciplines are part of the NDPH, including the Clinical Trial Service Unit and Epidemiological Studies Unit (CTSU), Cancer Epidemiology Unit (CEU), National Perinatal Epidemiology Unit (NPEU), Health Economics Research Centre (HERC), Demographic Science Unit (DSU) and Ethox Centre.
These groups are responsible for some of the world’s largest population cohorts and randomised trials, and produce highly-cited practice-changing research, which continues to have a major impact on international clinical management guidelines (eg on statins, aspirin, hypertension, pre-eclampsia, heart failure, serious childhood illness and infections).
All students on this course will need access to a computer, webcam, microphone and a reliable broadband internet connection (compulsory).
The recommended bandwidth for the software used is 1Mbps.
This is estimated to cost approximately £1000.
Departmental or college bursaries may be available for this.
Students will have to attend a compulsory residential week between Years 1 and 2, and may wish to attend a further residential period in Year 2.
The department will provide food and accommodation for these residential periods, but you will need to pay for your own travel.
Students can apply to the course directors for support for travel, and may also be able to apply for small grants from their college.
As part of your course requirements, you may need to choose a dissertation, a project or a thesis topic.
Your living costs may vary depending on your personal circumstances but you will still need to cover your cost of living on a full-time basis for the duration of your course, even if you will not be based in Oxford during your studies.
The following colleges accept students on the MSc in Clinical Trials:
Green Templeton College Lady Margaret Hall Reuben College St Hilda's College Wolfson College Wycliffe Hall
Your references should support:
This course is offered by the Nuffield Department of Population Health
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 743539

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-cognitive-behavioural-therapy:
The part-time DPhil in Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) is offered by the Oxford Cognitive Therapy Centre (OCTC) in collaboration with the Department for Continuing Education.
Applicants are welcome from outside Oxford, and outside the UK.
This part-time DPhil is normally carried out over eight years, equivalent to four years of full-time study, although it may take less time in certain circumstances.
The chosen topic of a DPhil in CBT should have a significant focus on issues related to cognitive behavioural theory and/or practice, for example: the development of a better understanding of the cognitive and behavioural aspects of a problem; developing an aspect of CBT to address a particular disorder; exploring theoretical or methodological issues in relation to cognitive behavioural practice etc.
The DPhil in CBT should focus on a primary research topic relevant to the theory, principles and practice of interventions, including both group and individual treatments, third wave approaches, self-help based approaches and supervision.
You will be strongly encouraged to participate in relevant seminars and/or tutorials held within OCTC and when necessary, informal meetings with staff and other researchers.
The major commitment of time will be to individual study and research.
Studying part-time for a DPhil is demanding and students should normally expect to devote on average at least 20 hours per week to their research.
Students should also ensure their employer understands the importance of full participation in the course.
As this is a part-time degree course, it is anticipated that you will have study facilities within your own place of work/research.
It is also anticipated that you will have access to experimental facilities and subjects and that these will not be provided by Oxford Cognitive Therapy Centre (OCTC).
As a part-time student you will be required to attend supervision, training, seminars, milestone assessments (eg transfer of status) and other obligations in Oxford, including meeting your supervisor at least once per term.
Study space will be made available to you.
You will have the opportunity to network within OCTC and attend events organised by OCTC.
As a student on this course you will have an identified Oxford-based supervisor who is interested in your research ideas and, in some instances, you will also need to identify a field supervisor who can closely monitor and advise on your practical research.
A good supervisory relationship is crucial to research.
It is important that you ensure that your supervisor understands the research concepts and that there is agreement about the potential and the direction of the research.
Both supervisor and supervisee must be able to make a commitment to the project that will span several years and must agree to regular meetings.
The allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of the Oxford Cognitive Therapy Centre and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances, a supervisor may be found outside the Oxford Cognitive Therapy Centre.
In such circumstances, a second internal supervisor may be appointed.
You will also be required to apply for a Confirmation of Status as DPhil sometime between the 12th and 18th term after admission.
You will be expected to submit a substantive academic thesis of around 50,000 words after six or, at most, eight years from the date of admission.
To be successfully awarded a DPhil in Evidence Based Health Care you will need to defend your thesis orally (viva voce) in front of two appointed examiners.
DPhil students on this course are expected to be established CBT practitioners and the extensive research that they carry out will further their development as a specialist practitioner.
This might be in a clinical, research or training capacity—or indeed all of these areas.
Previous experience conducting empirical research is also required.
Alternatively, this requirement can be demonstrated by successfully completing a course equivalent to the PGCert in Cognitive Behavioural Therapy , PGCert in Enhanced Cognitive Behavioural Therapy or PGDip in Cognitive Behavioural Therapy .
Although a previous master's degree is not required, it will strengthen your application to have completed a master's with a distinction grade in a relevant subject.
Applications will be assessed according to stated admissions criteria and shortlisted per place 3:1.
Applicants will be notified about interview dates at least 2 weeks preceding the interview.
Applicants will be expected to present an overview of their research proposal and answer questions related to their proposal, reasons for pursuing the award and professional background by the interview panel.
The following colleges accept students for full-time study on the DPhil in Cognitive Behavioural Therapy:
Campion Hall Kellogg College Linacre College St Catherine's College Wycliffe Hall
You are also encouraged to communicate with OCTC administrators in order to refine your application using the contact details on this page.
A professional reference attesting to your skills as a CBT therapist and clinician is acceptable as one of your letters of recommendation.
Other references should be from referees familiar with your work in an academic setting.
Your references will support intellectual ability, academic achievement, motivation, ability to work independently.
Your proposal and statement should be submitted as a single, combined document with a clear subheading for each.
You should submit a research proposal comprising a detailed outline of your intended research, written in English.
You should also submit a personal statement (statement of purpose) explaining your reasons for applying to the programme and highlighting your relevant academic and professional experience.
The statement should also be written in English.
Your proposal and statement will be assessed for:
The topic of your work should be relevant to the proposed area of study.
Your work will be assessed for:
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 902801

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/pgcert-cognitive-behavioural-therapy:
This course aims to equip practitioners with the CBT skills necessary to implement evidence-based treatment for the most common psychological disorders.
The Postgraduate Certificate in Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) is part of a comprehensive CBT training programme, which has been renowned for its consistent record of excellence in CBT practice, training and supervision over more than 30 years.
Oxford is internationally recognised as a centre of excellence in CBT and the course draws on an impressive body of local specialist skill and knowledge.
The course aims to provide students with:
The course does not aim to prepare students to teach and supervise CBT.
The emphasis is on acquiring, practising and communicating specialised clinical skills, within an explicit theoretical framework in relation to associated empirical research.
The course begins in October, with five days teaching over the first two weeks of the course followed by one full-day per week (Friday) over two terms.
Students receive two hours of small group supervision weekly focussing on CBT skills development.
In teaching sessions, emphasis is placed on observation of CBT in action and on experiential learning with participation in role-play and other practical exercises.
It is essential that students have access to adult treatment settings where they can access training cases suitable for novice CBT therapists (ie mild-moderate presentations of common mental health problems, such as those likely to present within primary care mental health settings) and where cognitive behavioural therapy skills can be practised and refined on a regular basis throughout the course.
Students will also be responsible for arranging regular CBT supervision within the treatment setting from a qualified CBT practitioner, as not all supervision needs can be met within the small group skills supervision provided by the course.
Supervisors should hold Cognitive Behavioural Psychotherapist accreditation with the British Association of Behavioural & Cognitive Psychotherapy.
Reading and completion of written assignments will be undertaken in addition to the teaching day outlined above.
Many students find it effective to set aside six to seven hours a week for private study.
Some of the teaching days on this course may be made available to a wider audience as publicly bookable workshops via the Oxford Cognitive Therapy Centre.
All participants will be expected to have an appropriate level of competence to participate fully.
Part time students are required to attend course-related activities in Oxford, including residential sessions.
It comprises 21 days of teaching over two terms, including weekly supervision groups.
Five days teaching takes place over the first two weeks of the course, followed by one full-day per week (Friday) over two terms.
All students have free access to the full catalogue of Oxford Cognitive Therapy Centre online training library, comprising an extensive programme of video demonstrations and tutorials on a range of CBT skills and clinical presentations.
The virtual learning platform for the course contains a wide variety of resources to supplement the live teaching and to direct self-study.
The department provides various IT facilities, including the Student Computing Facility which provides individual PCs for your use.
The allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of the Oxford Cognitive Therapy Centre.
Small group supervision takes place weekly, prior to teaching on Friday mornings.
Supervisors include Oxford Cognitive Therapy Centre core staff and associates.
To complete the PGCert in CBT you will need to:
Completion of the course provides access to a growing network of course graduates and to an ongoing programme of follow-up workshops on CBT and related topics.
Further supervision through OCTC may also be negotiated, for example, for participants wishing to achieve accreditation by the British Association of Behavioural & Cognitive Psychotherapies as a therapist, supervisor and/or trainer.
This award forms the foundation for further professional and clinical development, which can be pursued within the larger framework of the OCTC/University of Oxford CBT programme.
The programme offers specialist training and can lead to a Postgraduate Diploma or MSc in CBT.
Applicants are normally expected to have at least one year's post-qualification clinical experience , and :
Applicants should:
Applicants will be shortlisted in accordance with their ability to meet the criteria for admissions.
Interviews will usually be held four to six weeks after the application deadline.
Interviews will normally be held online and will be conducted by two members of the course team.
They will usually last about 45 minutes and include questions about the applicant's professional background and role-play to assess clinical skills.
You may be asked to provide details about your pattern of employment and provide evidence to show how you will fulfil your commitment to make time available to study, to complete coursework, and attend course and University events and modules.
You may also be asked to obtain a statement from your employer confirming their commitment to make time available for you to study, eg to complete coursework, and attend course and University events and modules.
If it is important for you to have your application considered under a particular deadline – eg under a December or January deadline in order to be considered for Oxford scholarships – we recommend that you aim to complete and submit your application at least two weeks in advance .
A professional reference from your current clinical supervisor is required and at least one of your references should be academic.
Your references will support intellectual ability, academic achievement, motivation, ability to work in a group and clinical ability.
You should also describe how you will gain access to suitable training cases and regular CBT supervision during your time on the course.
See course page on the department's website
† Combined figure for Cognitive Behavioural Therapy PGCert, PGCert Enhanced and PGDip *Three-year average (applications for entry in 202-23 to 2024-25)
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 270388

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/msc-cognitive-behavioural-therapy-clinical:
This course aims to provide students with a high-level of expertise in applying evidence-based findings to clinical practice.
To apply to this course you must have already completed or be in the process of completing the University's PGDip in Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (see Entry requirements for further details).
Your Postgraduate Diploma will be subsumed by the MSc in Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (Clinical).
MSc in Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (Clinical) allows students to benefit from the range of specialist teaching available in the new course structure and to obtain a high-level of proficiency in implementing evidence-based treatment across a wide range of clinical presentations, and in disseminating these treatments as trainers and supervisors to other practitioners.
This course is designed to help you achieve certain aims.
By the end of the course you should be able to:
You will be expected to have access to treatment settings with regular clinical and CBT supervision where cognitive behavioural therapy skills can be practised and refined on a regular basis.
There are currently four pathways for this highly specialist training:
The course structure will vary according to the specialist pathway chosen.
Reading, completion of written assignments and presentations will be undertaken in addition to the teaching days.
Many students find it effective to set aside at least six to seven hours a week for private study.
You will choose one specialist pathway, which you will follow for the duration of your course.
The duration of each specialist pathway will vary, from five to eleven months.
You will have already completed one or two of these specialist pathways while undertaking the PGDip in Cognitive Behavioural Therapy , and you will need to choose a different pathway for this course.
If you have previously undertaken the Children and Adolescents (C&A) pathway as part of the PGCert in Enhanced Cognitive Behavioural Therapy or PGDip in Cognitive Behavioural Therapy , you cannot select the CCSD pathway for this MSc course.
This is because the course content of the CCSD pathway overlaps with that of the C&A pathway, which was available in previous academic years.
You will need to choose a different pathway from the remaining options.
This specialism (formerly known as Complex Presentations), seeks to enable students to add to their existing knowledge of cognitive behavioural therapy, models, concepts and interventions specific to working with clinical presentations which are characterised by issues associated with co-morbidity and/or chronicity of emotional disorders or where systematic factors play a role in maintaining current problems.
There is an emphasis on developing CBT knowledge and skills in delivering formulation driven CBT interventions, this includes using CBT when working with chronic and recurrent depression, generalised anxiety disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder; developmental trauma, harmful behaviours, personality difficulties, psychosis and bi-polar disorder and adapting CBT to work with neurodiversity.
The course aims to enable students to establish and practise a repertoire of cognitive behavioural skills for use with comorbid, chronic and systemic problems.
Some teaching on relevant topics is shared with students on the Children and Adolescent pathway.
During the course students are expected to carry out CBT with at least three suitable patients presenting with problems impacted by chronicity, comorbidity or systemic factors and will receive, on a bi-weekly basis, two hours of small group CBT clinical supervision facilitated by an experienced CBT therapist.
The course begins with a two-day induction block and then attendance is required for two days bi-weekly, for training workshops.
The duration of this course is five months.
Teaching runs from runs from March to July with a final assessment due in August.
This innovative programme offers comprehensive, specialist training in Enhanced CBT with a strong grounding in current psychological and CBT theories and research.
It is designed to offer an in-depth understanding of the range of difficulties experienced by those who have experienced developmental trauma and adversity, alongside an in-depth understanding of the personality development issues that can have a significant impact on functioning.
The course highlights the CBT principles, theory and research that can guide optimal treatment delivery to people living with the legacy of trauma and/or with personality development issues.
Twenty days of training and supervision are spread over an academic year, between September and July.
These can be accessed online or face to face, although face to face attendance is encouraged.
Four days of teaching across September and October (a combination of workshops and self-directed learning), are followed by four intensive four-day teaching blocks in January, March, May and July.
One training day in each block is open to a wider clinical audience.
This enables course participants to interact and share with a broader group of specialist practitioners.
There are ten, expert-led, small group clinical supervision sessions between November and May.
Over the duration of the course, students are normally expected to engage in CBT with at least four patients with a significant trauma history, which has impacted on their current mental health presentation, and/or who have personality development issues that impair functioning.
We expect patients to demonstrate complex, co-morbid and/or interpersonal difficulties.
Therapy must demonstrate the Enhanced CBT skills and knowledge relevant to working with this population.
Students are expected to complete therapy with at least one patient over the duration of the course, although we encourage students to arrange their caseloads so that more than one patient completes therapy before the end of this training.
Coursework is spread over the period of training; four assignments are summative.
This specialism seeks to enable students to develop a sound understanding of cognitive behavioural models of psychosis and the related evidence base; competence in engaging, assessing and developing collaborative formulations with individuals with psychotic and bipolar presentations and competence to deliver high quality, individualised, evidence-based interventions in accordance with NICE guidance and the competence framework for work with people with psychosis and bipolar disorder (Roth & Pilling 2013), and the Health Education England national curriculum for CBT for severe mental health presentations.
The course comprises teaching over three terms: running from September 2025 to the end of June 2026.
Teaching and supervision typically take place on Thursdays and students should keep all Thursdays during term time free for course related teaching, supervision, and study.
There will also be some Fridays required for teaching and supervision (a total of five Fridays across terms one and two).
Non-teaching Thursdays will be used for small-group supervision and self-directed study throughout the year.
This specialism aims to prepare students to teach and to supervise CBT.
The emphasis is on acquiring, practising and communicating specialised dissemination skills, within an explicit theoretical framework.
The course also prepares students for dissemination in a range of settings (eg individual and group supervision, small and large group training).
The course is informed by established and contemporary theory and research concerning learning principles and the practice of high-quality CBT.
The content of the course is highly experiential, with opportunities to engage in supervision and training practice during training sessions and to obtain live feedback on practice and performance.
Students are normally expected to carry out CBT supervision in at least three supervision settings or formats over the course and to present at least one training event in that time.
There are three summative assessments over the period of training.
The course comprises 18 days, presented in five teaching blocks.
It begins with a four-day induction, followed by further three-day or four-day blocks.
Formal teaching comprises full or half- day workshops and a half-day Practice of Supervision (PoS) session is integrated into the course.
Six of the training days are open to a wider professional audience.
The attendance requirements for the course vary depending on your chosen pathway.
Please refer to the Specialist pathways above for full details.
The allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of the Oxford Cognitive Therapy Centre and this role will usually be performed by the Course Director.
You will meet as part of the small group supervision required in each specialist pathway.
A supervisor may be found outside the Oxford Cognitive Therapy Centre.
Summative assessment requirements vary according to the specialist pathway that you have chosen.
Some of the students who have previously completed this course have progressed to more senior clinical roles within the NHS.
For applicants with a degree from the USA, the minimum GPA sought is 3.5 out of 4.0.
Applicants are normally expected to have at least two year's post-qualification clinical experience , and :
These arrangements should be described in your personal statement and will be discussed in detail at interview, should you be shortlisted.
These arrangements should be acknowledged in your personal statement and will be discussed in detail at interview if you are shortlisted.
They will usually last about 45 minutes and include questions about your professional background and submitted research proposal for the research strand, and either a role-play to assess clinical skills or a brief presentation on a relevant topic for the clinical strand.
You may be able to apply for small grants from your department and/or college to help you cover some of these expenses.
The following colleges accept students on the MSc in Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (Clinical):
Campion Hall Kellogg College Reuben College Wycliffe Hall
Your statement should be written in English and explain your motivation for applying for the course at Oxford.
You should explain your relevant experience and education, and the specific areas that interest you.
This statement should include how you anticipate the training will enhance your practice and what you hope to gain from the course.
You should state which of the five specialisms you are applying for.
Therefore, you should describe how you will gain access to suitable training cases and regular CBT supervision during your time on the course.
These arrangements will be discussed in detail at interview, should you be shortlisted.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/msc-cognitive-behavioural-therapy-research:
This course guides students through the process of developing and implementing an independent research project in their own clinical setting.
Your Postgraduate Diploma will be subsumed by the MSc in Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (Research).
MSc in Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (Research) is a two-year, research-based extension to the PGDip in Cognitive Behavioural Therapy and provides a foundation for carrying out research and publishing an academic paper.
Some of the teaching days on this strand of the course may be made available to a wider audience as publicly bookable workshops via the Oxford Cognitive Therapy Centre.
The teaching element of this strand of the course is provided through tutorials.
These are spread out over two years with an initial three-day meeting followed by one- or two-day tutorials several times during the year.
Supervision is additionally provided on a one-to-one basis throughout the course.
Students usually meet with their supervisors when required.
Field supervisors, or local supervisors, give practical guidance in the workplace and advise and support students in carrying out the research.
Students should have ready access to local supervisors for guidance regarding research practicalities in their area.
Each student will be allocated a supervisor from Oxford Cognitive Therapy Centre staff during the academic year, although the practical emphasis for supervision rests with the field supervisor.
To complete the Research strand of the MSc in CBT , you will need to submit a dissertation, which comprises:
The reflective critique is an opportunity for you to look back over your experience of carrying out a piece of research and taking it to the point of submission.
You will need to demonstrate what you have learnt from your experience, what you would do differently with hindsight, and how your experience will inform your practice from now on.
Completion of the course provides access to a growing network of course graduates and to an ongoing programme of follow- up workshops on CBT and related topics.
Applicants will need to demonstrate that they have:
Interviews will normally be held in person, but may be conducted via video-conferencing, and will be conducted by two members of the course team.
The following colleges accept students on the MSc in Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (Research):
Your research proposal should be an outlined proposal for a research study, written in English, that is appropriate to the aims of the course, well-designed and feasible.
Your proposal should identify your proposed research project and outline the scope and treatment of the project.
*Two-year average (applications for entry in 2021-22 and 2022-23)

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/mst-comparative-literature-critical-translation:
The MSt in Comparative Literature and Critical Translation is a nine-month, interdisciplinary course designed to give you critical, theoretical and research expertise in the intersecting fields of comparative and world literature and translation studies.
To take this course, you must be able to work with two languages and literatures, out of Arabic, Chinese, English, French, German, modern Greek, Hebrew, Hindi, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Sanskrit, Spanish, Turkish, and Urdu.
If you are interested in studying two European languages comparatively, you may also wish to apply for the MSt in Modern Languages .
The course is attached to Oxford’s research centre in Comparative Criticism and Translation (OCCT) and builds on the recent growth in scholarly awareness of the importance of translation to comparative and world literary study.
This is what is meant by ‘critical translation’: not translator training, but rather an interest in the role played by translation and re-writing in literary history, and an alertness to the uses of translation in critical practice.
You will be able to participate in the rich research culture of OCCT.
This includes the lively postgraduate-led discussion group, regular research seminars and workshops, the public events of Oxford Translation Day, and lectures by the Weidenfeld Visiting Professor in Comparative European Literature (recent incumbents have included Javier Cercas, Ali Smith, Mario Vargas Llosa, Elif Shafak and Umberto Eco).
The academic mentor and the graduate teaching assistant who are attached to the course will help you to orient yourself in the research culture of OCCT and the wider university; and you will present your dissertation work-in-progress at a seminar day organised jointly with the OCCT discussion group in Trinity term.
You will also be able to attend seminars and other events from across the faculties of Medieval and Modern Languages, English Language and Literature, and Asian and Middle Eastern Studies, thereby encountering a wide range of leading writers, critics, and theorists from within and beyond the University.
If you wish, you may also choose to study another language at the Oxford University Language Centre.
This opportunity is free of charge for students taking the MSt in Comparative Literature and Critical Translation, though it is not an assessed part of your MSt course.
The MSt is comprised of a core course, two option courses and a dissertation.
Alongside the weekly teaching sessions for the core and option courses, you should expect to undertake approximately 30 hours of self-directed study each week.
The core course will introduce you to key topics in comparative and world literature and translation studies, and give you the skills needed to develop your own arguments and pursue original research.
It is taught by a weekly lecture and seminar in weeks one through six of Michaelmas (autumn) and Hilary (spring) terms.
You will give presentations in the seminars (usually twice each term), and write a short practice essay at the end of Michaelmas term: these formative assignments will not affect your degree result.
The list below provides an indication of the topics covered in the core course, though please note that it may vary from year to year:
You will take one option course in Michaelmas term and one option course in Hilary term.
These options are chosen from a wide range available in the faculties of Medieval and Modern Languages, English Language and Literature, and Asian and Middle Eastern Studies.
The option courses available change from year to year, but the following list is indicative of the types of topics which may be offered by participating faculties:
Teaching for an option consists of regular one-to-one or small-group meetings, with feedback being given as appropriate.
Your options must focus on literature in different languages (eg Arabic in one term, English in the other; or French in one term, Russian in the other).
Some options may not have a language requirement, or may span more than one language: in such cases, the course convener will advise you so that your choices cover an appropriate range.
Your dissertation may be on any topic in comparative literature and/or literary translation studies that involves two or more languages.
You will work closely with a supervisor, starting at the end of Michaelmas term and continuing through Hilary term, though the bulk of the work will be concentrated in Trinity (summer) term.
Your dissertation will be due in at the end of Trinity term.
In addition to the dissertation, you will be assessed on the core course by an essay written at the end of Hilary term and by written work for each of the two option courses, to be submitted after the end of the term in which the option has been taught.
The allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of the steering committee for the MSt in Comparative Literature and Critical Translation in consultation with faculties in the Humanities Division, and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Most students have the opportunity to have termly catch-ups with the course convenor, as well as up to six hours of contact time/support from their dissertation supervisors, the majority of which will take place in late Hilary and Trinity terms.
It is anticipated that those who have successfully completed the course may proceed to doctoral work at Oxford or other institutions.
Alternative career destinations may include publishing, journalism, teaching, or various kinds of international cultural work.
For applicants with a bachelor's degree from the USA, the minimum overall GPA that is normally required to meet the undergraduate-level requirement is 3.6.
Interviews may be held with candidates whose application requires clarification or further information in relation to one or more aspect of the entry requirements, such as those identified below as other qualifications, evidence of excellence and relevant experience.
References outlining academic potential and suitability to study for the intended course are secured before discussion with the applicant takes place.
Interviews will be conducted by either telephone, face-to-face or Microsoft Teams and there will be a minimum of two interviewers.
Applications may be rejected without further direct contact with the applicant.
There are no compulsory elements of the course that entail additional costs beyond fees and living expenses.
However, it is possible that work towards the dissertation, depending on the choice of topic, may require additional expenditure, for example on travel to a library where an archive is held.
The following colleges accept students for full-time study on the MSt in Comparative Literature and Critical Translation:
Blackfriars Brasenose College Campion Hall Christ Church Corpus Christi College Exeter College Hertford College Jesus College Keble College Kellogg College Lady Margaret Hall Linacre College Lincoln College Magdalen College Merton College Pembroke College The Queen's College Regent's Park College St Anne's College St Antony's College St Cross College St Edmund Hall St Hilda's College St Hugh's College St John's College Somerville College Trinity College Wadham College Worcester College Wycliffe Hall
References should generally be academic, though if you are returning to study after extended periods of non-academic employment then you are welcome to nominate professional referees where it would be impractical to call on your previous university tutors.
Your references will support intellectual ability, academic achievement, motivation, ability to work in both a group environment and independently.
It should focus on your academic achievements and interests rather than personal achievements, interests and aspirations.
You should describe the nature of your knowledge of two (or more) languages and literatures if this is not already obvious from your CV and qualifications.
You should explain what interests you about the MSt in Comparative Literature and Critical Translation, and indicate the areas in which you are likely to want to take option courses.
You should also describe the topic on which you hope to write your dissertation, showing an awareness of current scholarship in the field, and delineating the scope of the project and the research questions you wish to pursue.
The written work should consist of an academic essay or essays, to be submitted in English.
The essay or essays should give evidence of your competence in the study of literature in two or more languages (one of which may be English).
Clearly-highlighted extracts of the requisite length from longer work are also permissible.
Work should be submitted in English.
This interdisciplinary course is offered jointly by several faculties in the Humanities Division
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0) 1865 615264

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/mphil-comparative-social-policy:
The MPhil in Comparative Social Policy explores welfare systems and policy developments across a range of countries with an OECD focus.
The comparative element is a key part of the course, and is one feature that makes the course at Oxford unique.
The central aim of the MPhil in Comparative Social Policy at the Department of Social Policy and Intervention is to provide high quality graduate level research training in social policy, taking a comparative perspective, concentrating primarily on the most highly-developed welfare states.
More specific aims are to develop your capacity to:
You will study a core paper in comparative social policy and social policy analysis.
This paper covers the theories, principles, history and institutions of social policy, and is taught via a closely-linked package of lectures, seminars, small working seminars and individual tutorials.
You will also engage in detailed work on social policy analysis through lectures, seminars and presentations.
The research methods skills, covering quantitative methods and qualitative methods, are taught in a mix of lectures, classes, workshops and ‘hands-on’ computer lab based weekly training sessions.
In addition, there is a course on the principles of comparative research design.
The MPhil course is an extended version of the MSc in Comparative Social Policy .
In the first year you will study together with the MSc group and in the second year you will primarily focus on your research project, under individually-tailored supervision.
The MPhil particularly suits students who want to conduct research in a world-class environment, with strong potential to pursue a doctorate afterwards.
In your first year, you will have the opportunity to take two specialist course from a list of options focusing on a particular topic or area of social policy.
You are assessed on one of these option courses.
During your second year, you will have to opportunity to take a second option.
Recent options offered include comparative education policy, gender and family policies, healthcare policy and health inequalities, labour market policies, poverty and political economy of social policy.
The department runs several seminar series on social policy, social intervention, and on methodologies - during the year, providing the opportunity to hear external expert speakers.
In addition, there is a weekly colloquium at which members of the department present and discuss their research, creating an excellent chance for staff and students to learn more about each others' ideas or receive input on their own research.
DPhil and MPhil students also belong to one of the department's research groups, which provide an opportunity to explore themed areas in more depth with colleagues with similar interests.
The department provides a workspace and computer room for masters' students and has its own IT provision and specialist IT support staff.
You will have access to the Bodleian Social Science Library, in addition to other University libraries, and the centrally provided electronic resources.
The department has a common room open to both staff and students.
Barnett House Thursday coffee mornings are held fortnightly and these occasions provide excellent opportunities for talking to academics and research staff, and fellow students.
The allocation of graduate supervision for the course is the responsibility of the Department of Social Policy and Intervention and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Department of Social Policy and Intervention.
Efforts will be made to match the research interests of supervisees and supervisors.
Students will have approximately eight to twelve meetings with their supervisor, distributed over three terms.
Your performance will be assessed through formative and summative assignments/papers.
Knowledge of the substantive areas of social policy is assessed by a combination of examinations and/or submitted coursework assignments throughout the first and second year.
The exam and/or assessment paper covers comparative social policy and social policy; the other summative assessments focus on the student’s chosen areas of specialism.
Research methods will be assessed by a series of assessments throughout the year using mainly submitted coursework assignments.
In addition, you will be required to provide a dissertation.
Recent graduates from the MPhil in Comparative Social Policy have gone on to study for doctorates in a range of high quality universities.
Many of graduates go on to pursue academic careers in world-leading research universities, while others hold influential positions in government, non-governmental and international organisations, such as the OECD, World Bank, the World Health Organisation and the UN.
There is no requirement on subject area and students from a wide range of disciplinary backgrounds are considered.
To continue to a research degree after the MPhil, candidates would normally be expected to gain a mark of at least 65% for both the written exams and the thesis.
The department's Graduate Studies Committee will also consider the clarity and viability of the research proposal and the availability of appropriate supervision.
Interviews are not normally held as part of the admissions process.
The Department of Social Policy and Intervention is a multidisciplinary centre of excellence for research and teaching in social policy, and in the development and systematic evaluation of social interventions and policies.
It is home to a global community of academics and researchers from a range of disciplinary backgrounds.
Each year the department accepts a highly select group of graduate students from across the world to study on one of the master's courses: the MSc and MPhil in Comparative Social Policy, exploring welfare systems and policy developments across a range of different countries; or the MSc and MPhil in Evidence-Based Social Intervention and Policy Evaluation, learning about the development and evaluation of interventions and policies across many regions of the world to address social and public health problems.
Several of the department's MSc courses are also part of the Oxford 1+1 MBA programme which allows high calibre students to spend one year studying the MSc and one year studying an MBA at the Saïd Business School.
The department has around 60 students on two DPhil programmes, the DPhil in Social Policy and DPhil in Social Intervention and Policy Evaluation.
Research students are fully involved in the research life of the department and have the opportunity to work with experts in the field.
Alumni go onto appointments at global research universities or influential jobs in government, non-governmental and international organisations.
The following colleges accept students on the MPhil in Comparative Social Policy:
Blackfriars Campion Hall Green Templeton College Jesus College Kellogg College Linacre College Nuffield College Regent's Park College Reuben College St Antony's College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Hilda's College Wolfson College Wycliffe Hall
Your references will support intellectual ability, academic achievement and motivation for the chosen area of study.
If you are currently studying on another graduate course, we strongly suggest that one of your references be from your current academic supervisor.
Please contact your referees well in advance of the application deadline to give sufficient time for references to be prepared and submitted.
An academic essay or other writing sample from your most recent qualification, written in English, is required.
An extract of the requisite length from longer work is also permissible.
The topic of the work does not need to relate directly to the proposed subject of study.
This will be assessed for a comprehensive understanding of the subject area; understanding of problems in the area; ability to construct and defend an argument; ability of analytical thinking; powers of analysis and clarity of expression.
Please note that internal checks are carried out on all submitted writing samples to ensure compliance with length requirements, and over-length submissions can cause errors or delays.
This course is offered by the Department of Social Policy and Intervention
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 280734

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/msc-comparative-social-policy:
The MSc in Comparative Social Policy explores welfare systems and policy developments across a range of countries with an OECD focus.
The central aim of the course is to provide high quality graduate level research training in social policy, taking a comparative perspective, learning especially from the most highly-developed welfare states.
This paper covers the theories, principles, history and institutions of social policy, and is taught via a closely-linked package of lectures, seminars, small working groups and individual tutorials.
The research methods skills, covering quantitative and qualitative methods, are taught in a mix of lectures, classes, workshops and ‘hands-on’ computer lab based weekly training sessions.
You will also have the opportunity to take two specialist courses from a list of options focusing on particular topics and sub-fields of social policy.
You are examined in one of these option courses.
Recent options offered include comparative education policies, gender and family policies, healthcare and health inequality, labour market policies, political economy of social policy and poverty.
During the first and second terms, the majority of learning is classroom-based, complemented by independent reading, tutorials and formative and summative assessments.
The third term involves largely supervised and self-directed study for the remaining summative assessments, exam revision, and further development of the MSc thesis; an additional lecture and question/answer sessions is typically offered on an optional basis to support students in preparing for exams and/or assessments and using various methodologies for thesis projects.
The department runs several seminar series – one on social policy, one on social intervention, and one on research methods – during the year, providing the opportunity to hear external expert speakers.
In addition, there is a regular colloquium at which members of the department present and discuss their research, creating an excellent chance for staff and students to learn more about each other's ideas or receive input on their own research.
DPhil and MPhil students also belong to one of the department's research groups, which provide an opportunity to present their work and explore themed areas in more depth with colleagues with similar interests.
The allocation of graduate supervision for the course is the responsibility of the Department of Social Policy and Intervention and it is not always possible to accommodate the precise preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Knowledge of the substantive areas of social policy is assessed by a combination of examinations and/or submitted coursework assignments throughout the year.
The examination will cover comparative social policy and social policy analysis; the summative assignment will focus on your chosen area of specialism as represented in the option paper in which you choose to be assessed.
Research methods will be assessed by a series of assessments throughout the year using a combination of assignments.
Many graduates go on to pursue academic careers in world-leading research universities, while others hold influential positions in government, non-governmental and international organisations, such as the OECD, World Bank, the World Health Organisation and other UN organisations.
To continue to a research degree after the MSc, candidates would normally be expected to gain a mark of at least 65% for both the written exams and the thesis.
The following colleges accept students on the MSc in Comparative Social Policy:
Blackfriars Campion Hall Green Templeton College Jesus College Kellogg College Lady Margaret Hall Linacre College Nuffield College Oriel College Regent's Park College Reuben College St Antony's College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Hilda's College Trinity College Wolfson College Wycliffe Hall
Please also note that internal checks are carried out on all submitted writing samples to ensure compliance with length requirements, and over-length submissions can cause errors or delays.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-computer-science:
The DPhil in Computer Science is an advanced research degree, awarded for a significant (new) contribution to the existing body of knowledge in the field of computer science.
The degree will introduce you to cutting edge research, while you study in a beautiful, historic setting that is both student- and family-friendly.
You will work with world-class experts in their field.
Supervision is available in areas corresponding to the department’s research themes .
Cross-disciplinary work corresponding to more than one theme, or involving researchers from other departments or from industry, is also possible.
The course combines individual supervision with a selection of lecture courses, transferable skills training and opportunities to participate in cutting-edge research activities.
During your study at Oxford, the department hopes to share with you some of the excitement about the topics the department investigates, and of the understanding the department has gained from research into basic theory and by industrial collaboration.
The development of computer science at Oxford has been heavily supported by research grant funding from the government, EU and science foundations, as well as donations and sponsorship from the department's industrial partners.
The department is committed to offering you the best supervision and to providing a stimulating research environment.
The DPhil normally takes three to four years of full-time study to complete.
You are expected to continue working outside of the University terms with an annual holiday of approximately eight weeks.
The department will contact you with possible options for IT provision for your DPhil.
Oxford University IT Services runs introductory courses throughout the year.
They will also help you to explore facilities available at the University of Oxford which, although possibly not required for your research, may be of interest to you.
As a DPhil student, you will have access to desks in hot desk spaces that are shared with other DPhil students.
You are also able to access other relevant libraries elsewhere in the University such as the Radcliffe Science Library, the Whitehead Library (at the Mathematical Institute for numerical analysts and formal mathematicians) and the Engineering Science Library (especially for those interested in robotics and machine vision).
The Department of Computer Science houses lecture theatres and seminar rooms in which most of the lectures in computer science take place.
The allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of the Department of Computer Science and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Department of Computer Science.
In such circumstances a joint supervisor from within the department is also appointed.
You will have the opportunity to meet with a supervisor.
Most students might expect to meet with their supervisor on a fortnightly basis, the frequency of meetings may change when they reach the stage of writing up their thesis.
In addition to this, many research groups have meetings where members discuss their research or perhaps present other published work.
A successful transfer of status from PRS to DPhil status will require satisfactory completion of any compulsory training courses (e.g.
research integrity, teaching training) and submission of written work.
Students who are successful at transfer will also be expected to apply for and gain confirmation of DPhil status within nine terms of admission, to show that their work continues to be on track.
You will be expected to teach at least two sets of classes before confirmation of DPhil status.
Both milestones normally involve an interview with two assessors (other than your supervisor) and therefore provide important experience for the final oral examination whilst also ensuring you are making satisfactory progress and that your work is of DPhil quality.
You will be expected to submit a substantial original thesis which should not exceed 250 pages after at most four years from the date of admission.
To be successfully awarded a DPhil in Computer Science you will need to defend your thesis orally (viva voce) in front of two appointed examiners.
Graduates of the DPhil in Computer Science are highly regarded by a wide range of employers, including universities and industry.
Many also go on to build their own start-ups.
For the qualifications above, relevant subjects include computer science, and depending on the area of proposed research, subjects such as mathematics, engineering or physics.
A four-year sandwich degree with one year spent in industry is not an acceptable equivalent.
Candidates are considered against the academic ability criteria and also the research proposal or statement.
If you meet the academic criteria and there is a supervisor interested in your research then you will be invited for interview.
If invited you can expect to be interviewed by at least two people and for the interview to last around 30 minutes.
The interview could take place face-to-face or remotely.
Interviews will usually be held in January and February for applicants who apply by the December deadline and by late March for those who apply at the March deadline.
Information about funding opportunities for this course can also be found on the department's website.
The following colleges accept students on the DPhil in Computer Science:
Balliol College Christ Church Exeter College Green Templeton College Hertford College Jesus College Keble College Kellogg College Lady Margaret Hall Linacre College Magdalen College Mansfield College Merton College New College Oriel College Pembroke College Reuben College St Anne's College St Catherine's College St Cross College St Edmund Hall St Hilda's College St Hugh's College St John's College Somerville College Trinity College University College Wolfson College Worcester College Wycliffe Hall
Before you apply, a good starting point is to look at the research currently being carried out in the department and the profiles of academic staff .
Academic staff profiles contain information on their research interests and will help you identify potential supervisors.
You can contact potential supervisors directly but remember they are very busy and may not reply immediately.
You should be brief and include some information about your background, your research interests and any relevant experience.
You might like to introduce yourself by explaining why their work interests you enough to motivate you to apply to study with them and which of their publications interest you.
Please enter the name of at least one supervisor to whom you are applying.
If you wish to enter more than one name, please list them in order of preference, or indicate equal preference, up to a maximum of three.
Generally, you should provide two academic references and a third reference which may be either professional or academic.
However, if you have been away from higher education for a long time, you may instead provide one academic reference and two professional references.
Your references will support intellectual ability, academic achievement, motivation, and (where appropriate) ability to work in a group.
You may submit either a research proposal comprising a detailed outline of your intended research or, if you are not yet ready to submit a full proposal, you should submit a statement of research interests, in English, describing the general area of research in which you are interested.
You should summarise the research in your chosen area of research that you are aware of, referring to existing papers where appropriate.
You could also describe a research problem and your initial ideas on solving this or other open problems.
You should include your relevant skills and experience, your reasons for applying to Oxford, and list some of the principal reasons why you consider yourself a strong applicant.
It is helpful to identify a likely supervisor.
You should look at the webpages of potential supervisors working in your area of interest and even read some of their publications.
You should make it clear why the potential supervisor's work interests you and why they would be the best supervisor for you.
You should be aware that a statement of research interests will not commit you to carry out the exact research work you have described and it is expected that your interests may evolve and change over the course of study.
Your proposal should focus on your ideas for research rather than personal achievements, interests and aspirations.
You do not need to include your MSc dissertation.
Your research proposal should be written in English.
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 283559

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-condensed-matter-physics:
The DPhil in Condensed Matter Physics (CMP) is a research-based course of three to four years in duration.
Research in the department ranges from fundamental physics questions to interdisciplinary research and technological applications.
The course is hosted by the Condensed Matter Physics sub-department, one of six sub-departments of the Department of Physics, with most facilities and offices located in the Clarendon laboratory.
Research projects available for the DPhil in Condensed Matter Physics include topics in:
A list of typical research projects on offer in the three research themes can be found on the course pages on the department's website.
Please note that not all projects may be available at the time of your application.
You will be assigned a specific research project, which can evolve during the course of your DPhil.
You will be supervised throughout the course and join the research group of your supervisor.
You will be required to attend lectures and courses to increase your basic and specialist physics knowledge and in preparation for the research you will carry out.
This taught element is tailor-made for the individual student, and will be agreed between you and your supervisor, with the approval of the Director of Graduate Studies.
In the following years, you will concentrate on your research work.
Alongside this, you will be strongly encouraged to take part in further courses, including a rich palette of transferable skills courses offered by the University, and to attend seminars and colloquia in the Department of Physics and elsewhere.
Some research themes organise workshops and away days, specifically designed to give you the opportunity to present your research to a broader audience.
Poster and oral presentations are also part of the ongoing student assessment.
There will usually be the opportunity to attend conferences or conduct experiments, both in the extensive research facilities of the Clarendon Laboratory and at other institutions inside or outside the UK.
The Clarendon Laboratory has extensive experimental facilities for research in Condensed Matter Physics and most students will have the opportunity to access the appropriate facilities for research in their field.
These include the:
The department's website provides further details and a description of these facilities.
DPhil students also have access to the Radcliffe Science Library , which also provides extensive on-line services, including access to most relevant journals in the field of Condensed Matter Physics.
There is a range of welfare and academic support available in the department.
Your supervisor, the Director of Graduate Studies, and Graduate Administrator are all available to offer support.
There are also several support networks in Physics, all of which are available to our graduate students.
Mental health first aiders are an initial point of contact for students experiencing a mental health issue or emotional distress.
They are members of staff of our department, and have completed a two-day mental health first-aid training course, accredited by Mental Health England.
They are trained to recognise the symptoms of mental ill health, provide initial help and guide a person towards appropriate professional help.
Mental Health First Aiders are not trained to be therapists, but they are taught how to respond in a crisis.
The allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of the Department of Physics and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Many DPhil students are co-supervised by a University member of staff, usually from the Department of Physics or another Department within the University.
Some schemes, such as the Joint Max Planck Training Programme in Quantum Materials or the Large-Scale facility studentships (eg the Diamond Doctoral Studentship Programme) require a co-supervisor from outside the University.
In all these cases, your main University supervisor will at all times be responsible for your progress and for ensuring that the project is of suitable content and level to satisfy the normal expectations of a DPhil at the University.
The frequency of student-supervisor meetings varies depending on the nature of the project.
Most supervisors run an extended research group, including several DPhil students and post-docs, who interact often.
New students will also be welcome in the wider Oxford Physics community, currently hosting over 350 DPhil students, with multiple opportunities of mutual support and social interactions.
At the end of the first year you are expected to submit a report on your research and to defend it in an interview with the Graduate Studies Panel and a specialist reader.
The panel will determine whether you can transfer status from Probationer Research Student (PRS) to DPhil student.
Towards the end of the second year, you will present a poster in an open session, attended by the Graduate Studies Panel and many members of the Condensed Matter Physics sub-department.
Discussion of your research project with panel members and others at the poster session will contribute to the decision whether to confirm your status as DPhil student the following year.
This decision will be usually taken at the beginning of the third year, following an interview with the Graduate Studies Panel, focussing on your current results and your thesis plans.
At the end of the third year, you are expected to give a talk, attended the Graduate Studies Panel and many members of the Condensed Matter Physics sub-department, and to answer questions following your presentation.
You will be expected to submit a substantial original thesis after three or, at most, four years from the date of admission.
To be successfully awarded a DPhil you will need to defend your thesis orally ( viva voce ) in front of two appointed examiners (one internal and one external).
Most students would have published one or more original research paper by the time they are awarded a DPhil.
Candidates for a DPhil in Condensed Matter Physics will have demonstrated a strong grounding on the relevant physics foundations, combined with experimental and analytical skills (eg the ability of design their own experiments to test hypotheses), strong motivation and resilience and the ability to manage their workload independently, often under time pressure – all qualities that are much sought after by potential employers.
Therefore, a DPhil in Condensed Matter Physics serves as a broad high-level qualification, providing a springboard for a variety of careers in research and beyond.
Past students have found careers in academic and industrial research organisations, the financial sector, information technology, consultancy, media etc.
Some go on to further training in, for example, medicine and law.
Interviews are normally held as part of the admissions process and following a pre-selection based on the application.
If you are a UK or EU candidate, you will be invited to attend a personal interview in Oxford, though acceptance is not mandatory.
If you are a candidate from outside the EU or if you prefer the virtual format, the interview will be conducted via video conference.
Information about the planned interview dates can be found on the Condensed Matter Physics webpages for prospective students.
The following colleges accept students on the DPhil in Condensed Matter Physics:
General enquiries should be made to the department's graduate studies administrator.
You are strongly encouraged to contact potential supervisors for further information about supervision.
Alternatively, you can use this to indicate an interest in one or more of our key research themes, ie biophysics, quantum materials, or semiconductor materials, devices and nanostructure (SMND).
The research proposal should outline your reasons for wishing to study for a DPhil in Condensed Matter Physics and the type of research project that you wish to undertake.
The proposal should be written in English and the word count does not need to include any bibliography or brief footnotes.
This will be assessed for evidence of motivation for and understanding of the proposed area of study; the ability to present a reasoned case in English; and commitment to the subject.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/msc-contemporary-chinese-studies:
The MSc in Contemporary Chinese Studies is a three-term, nine-month course offered jointly by the Oxford School of Global and Area Studies (OSGA) and the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies designed to provide high quality graduate research training with an emphasis on an appreciation of research methods and on deepening your understanding of contemporary China.
You will develop or extend your knowledge and understanding of:
Modules involve lectures as well as seminar or class discussions, for both of which you will receive reading lists.
It is a fundamental component of the Oxford educational system that you engage in individual reading and study in order to broaden and deepen your knowledge of your chosen field.
You will also have the opportunity to meet with a supervisor on a one-to-one basis, to help guide you in your dissertation research.
In addition to your supervisor, other staff members will be available to advise you on reading, literature and topics.
Students normally have some familiarity with Chinese language.
The teaching on the MSc course is built around two core courses.
The first core course, Research Methods, will introduce you to the strengths and weaknesses of contrasting discipline-based approaches to Area Studies, and the study of China.
It explores both qualitative and quantitative research methods.
The second core course, The Study of Contemporary China, teaches foundational knowledge of modern Chinese history, politics and society needed for further study or research in all disciplines, and introduces the different disciplinary approaches to the study of modern China.
In addition to the two core courses you will choose two option courses and complete a research dissertation.
The overall structure of the course is as follows:
The Dickson Poon University of Oxford China Centre building, based on Canterbury Road, brings together academics drawn from across a range of disciplines, who have in common research and teaching interests related to China.
The building has a lecture theatre, a dining area and a range of conference and seminar facilities.
These facilities provide opportunities for interaction with students on a range of China-related degrees as well as lectures and other academic activities.
The Bodleian Chinese Studies Library and the Bodleian Social Science Library are the main read-only and lending services respectively, for the material you will require.
Reading lists and copies of course PowerPoint slides will be made available to you on Canvas across the academic year.
In addition to this, there is a world-renowned collection of Chinese rare books housed in the Bodleian Oriental collections and the superb collections of the Ashmolean Museum.
The allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of the Oxford School of Global and Area Studies and the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Oxford School of Global and Area Studies and the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies.
Students would normally expect to have 9-10 meetings with their supervisors from the start of the course until thesis submissions at the end of week 6 of Trinity Term.
Assessment for Research Methods comprises two parts, each weighted equally: a take-home submission in the collection and analysis of qualitative data at the end of Michaelmas Term, and a take-home submission in quantitative analysis at the end of Hilary Term.
The Study of Contemporary China core course is assessed by one unseen exam at the beginning of Hilary Term.
Option courses are assessed by either unseen exams or officially submitted essays in Trinity Term.
Finally, from the start of Michaelmas term and continuing across the next two terms, including during the Easter vacation, until submission on Friday of Week 6 of Trinity term, you will research and write a dissertation on a topic of your choosing, subject to approval by the Graduate Studies Committee.
Your research topic for your dissertation will be formally approved by your supervisor and Course Director during Michaelmas term.
Graduate pathways after the MSc typically fall into one of three categories.
The first group move on to further academic study, either in China in order to further enhance their language and cultural skills at leading universities, or by pursuing doctoral study in key disciplines, either here at Oxford or at other top-ranked universities worldwide.
The second path taken by the department’s graduates involves government and public service at international institutions, government agencies and prominent NGOs, usually with a direct focus on China or the East Asia region as part of the brief for their positions.
The third pathway chosen by graduates typically involves major private sector firms in industry or finance, commercial research agencies, international consulting and journalism.
Further information about funding opportunities for this course can be found on the following faculty websites:
However, students may be required to pay any additional insurance premiums associated with travel to areas with an increased level of risk, and should factor this into their planning for fieldwork.
The following colleges accept students on the MSc in Contemporary Chinese Studies:
Blackfriars Campion Hall Harris Manchester College Hertford College Kellogg College Lady Margaret Hall Linacre College Merton College Pembroke College The Queen's College Regent's Park College Reuben College St Anne's College St Antony's College St Catherine's College St Cross College University College Wadham College Wolfson College Wycliffe Hall
Admissions enquiries should be addressed to the course administrator via the contact details provided on this page.
References should generally be academic though one of the three required references may be professional.
Your references will indicate intellectual ability, academic achievement, motivation, ability to work in a group.
It should include a preliminary outline of your research interests and your proposed dissertation project.
Your statement should focus on your research interests rather than personal achievements, interests and aspirations.
Extracts of the requisite length from longer work are also permissible but should be prefaced by a note which puts it in context.
The work must be an academic essay rather than a business or consultancy report or media brief though the topic of the work does not necessarily need to relate closely to the proposed area of study.
This course is offered jointly by the Oxford School of Global and Area Studies (OSGA) and the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 284995 or +44 (0)1865 274486

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/mst-creative-writing:
The MSt in Creative Writing is a two-year, part-time master's degree course offering a unique combination of high contact hours, genre specialisation, and critical and creative breadth.
The emphasis of the course is cross-cultural and cross-genre, pointing up the needs and challenges of the contemporary writer who produces their creative work in the context of a global writerly and critical community.
The MSt offers a clustered learning format of five residences, two guided retreats and one research placement over two years.
The research placement, a distinguishing feature of the course, provides between one and two weeks' in-house experience of writing in the real world.
The first year concentrates equally on prose fiction, poetry, dramatic writing and narrative non-fiction.
There is a significant critical reading and analysis component, which is linked to the writerly considerations explored in each of the genres.
In your second year you will specialise in one of the following:
The residences in particular offer an intensive workshop- and seminar-based forum for ideas exchange and for the opening up of creative and critical frameworks within which to develop writerly and analytical skills.
There is a strong element of one-to-one tutorial teaching.
Tutorials take place within residences and retreats, and relate to the on-going work produced for the course.
You will be required to attend residences in Oxford during the first year as well as a research placement in the second year.
You will be assigned a supervisor who will work closely with you throughout the development of the year two final project and extended essay.
All assessed work throughout the two years of the course is subject to one-to-one feedback and discussion with a tutor.
This intensive, one-to-one input, combined with the highly interactive workshop and seminar sessions, is a distinguishing feature of the course.
The MSt is assessed by coursework.
In the first year, four assignments (two creative, two critical), one creative writing portfolio and one critical essay are submitted.
Work is set during each residence and handed in for assessment before the next meeting.
Feedback on work submitted is given during tutorials within the residence or retreat.
In the second year, submissions comprise one research placement report, one extended critical essay, and a final project – a substantial body of creative work in the genre of choice.
You will be set specific creative and critical work to be completed between residences and handed in to set deadlines.
Creative submissions in the first year must be in more than one genre.
In the second year, submitted work focuses around the genre of your choice.
Graduate destinations have included publishing creative work in a chosen field, careers in arts/media, and doctoral programmes in creative writing.
For those applying by the January deadline, interviews are generally held in February and March.
For March applicants, interviews are generally held in March and April.
The decision to call an applicant for interview is based on the University Admission Board's assessment of your portfolio, statement of purpose, academic and professional track record and references.
Interviews will be conducted in person or by telephone.
There are always two interviewers.
Interviews usually last up to approximately 30 minutes and provide an opportunity for the candidate to discuss his/her application and to explore the course in more detail.
The interview is designed to ascertain, through a range of questions, the shape and emphasis of the candidate's writing and reading, and general suitability for the demands of the MSt.
This course has residential sessions (residences and retreats) in Oxford.
You will need to meet your travel costs in attending these sessions.
The tuition fee includes the cost of board and lodging during the residences and retreats (eg for a four day residence, three nights accommodation will be provided).
Further, as part of your course requirements, you will need to complete a research placement in the second year.
For this placement you will need to meet your travel and accommodation costs, and any other incidental expenses.
Further information about departmental funding can be found on the department's website.
Please check with your specific college for bursary or other funding possibilities.
The following colleges accept students on the MSt in Creative Writing:
Blackfriars Brasenose College Campion Hall Harris Manchester College Keble College Kellogg College Lady Margaret Hall Oriel College Regent's Park College St Catherine's College Somerville College Wadham College Wycliffe Hall
If you have any questions about the course, these should be directed to the course administrator via the contact details provided on this page.
Your references will support your commitment to creative writing and suitability to pursue a course of this nature at graduate level.
Both professional and academic references are acceptable.
A CV/résumé is compulsory for all applications.
Most applicants choose to submit a document of one to two pages highlighting their academic and writerly achievements and any relevant professional experience.
The statement of purpose should contain sufficient detail to allow it to be assessed against the indicated criteria.
Your statement should be written in English and explain your motivation for applying for the course at Oxford, your relevant experience and education, and the specific areas that interest you and/or in which you intend to specialise.
Your portfolio of creative writing for assessment can be in any of the four genres, or in more than one.
It should be clearly indicative of your ability in creative writing.
This will be assessed for excellence in creative writing.
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 280145

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/dphil-criminology:
The DPhil Criminology is offered as either a full-time three to four year degree, or a part-time six to eight year degree.
The DPhil entails researching and writing a thesis of between 75,000 and 100,000 words under the guidance of at least one supervisor who will be an acknowledged authority on your chosen topic.
After three or at most four years, or no later than eight years for the part-time pathway, you are expected to submit your final thesis.
As a first-year full-time student, or in your first two years as a part-time student, you will follow courses of instruction in criminological research methods to develop your research skills, unless you have acquired sufficient methods training on a master's degree.
The Criminology DPhil programme is offered by the Centre for Criminology to develop academic and transferable skills.
You must complete both modules during your DPhil and you can choose which term/academic year it would be most useful for you to take each.
Module One , Intellectual Foundations will help you think theoretically about criminological research and engage with the intellectual foundations of criminology in order to assist you in developing theoretical and conceptual frameworks for your own projects.
Module Two , Professional Development will help you with your professional development and to give you opportunities to present your own work ‘in progress’ and learn to critique the work of your peers.
The Faculty of Law and Social Sciences Division also offer skills training as appropriate to different stages of the graduate career.
There are also opportunities to access advanced and specialist research methods training.
The areas in which members of the Centre for Criminology may be able to offer supervision include:
Members of the Centre for Criminology are unable to supervise:
In addition to the DPhil Programme and methods training, you will be encouraged to attend the Oxford criminology and informal research seminars organised by the centre and get involved in the various criminology discussion groups.
Research seminars bring you and other students together with academic and other research staff in the department to hear about ongoing research and provide an opportunity for networking and socialising.
You will have the opportunity to attend a variety of skills training sessions and you may be required to successfully complete research methods training provided by the centre, as a condition of your transfer/admission to DPhil student status.
There are also opportunities to access advanced and specialist research training provided through the Social Sciences Doctoral Training Centre.
The Social Sciences Division also organises an academic and professional development programme covering a range of relevant generic transferable skills which you will be encouraged to attend.
You will be encouraged to attend the Oxford criminology and informal lunchtime seminars organised by the centre and you will also have the opportunity participate in the criminology discussion group, criminological research workshops, and other relevant discussion groups which are held during term time.
You will also have access to seminars organised by the Faculty of Law as well as other faculty discussion groups.
Although there will be no requirement to live in Oxford for part-time research students, you must attend the University on a regular basis (particularly in term-time) for supervision, study, research seminars and skills training.
This is also to ensure a comprehensive integration into the faculty's and University's research culture and with your full-time peer groups.
In addition, you will sometimes meet with your supervisors online.
As a part-time student you will be required to attend classes in research methods (unless completed as part of the MSc Criminology and Criminal Justice), doctoral seminars, supervision meetings and other obligations in Oxford.
There will be some flexibility in the dates and pattern of attendance which will be determined by mutual agreement with your supervisor.
Attendance will be required during and outside of term-time on dates to be determined by mutual agreement with your supervisor.
As a new full-time DPhil student you will be offered a desk at the Centre for Criminology, however it may not be possible to accommodate every student who requests a desk, and the centre cannot guarantee the availability of workspace in future years.
Within the Faculty of Law, there is a dedicated graduate reading room available in the Bodleian Law Library.
You will have access to the Bodleian Law Library and Bodleian Social Science Library (in addition to other University libraries, and the centrally provided electronic resources).
Training on how to use the library’s legal and journal database is jointly provided by the Faculty of Law and the Bodleian Law Library.
The allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of the Centre for Criminology and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Centre for Criminology.
It is expected that you will have the opportunity to have at least two supervisions in each term (or for part-time students, at least one each term) and students and their supervisors may have other online or in person contact in addition to this, especially when the student is preparing for ‘milestone’ assessments.
Within a maximum of four terms as a full-time PRS student (eight terms for part-time pathway), you will be expected to apply for, and achieve, transfer of status from Probationer Research Student to DPhil status.
This application is normally made by the third term for full-time students (sixth term for part-time pathway) and involves submitting a research outline and a substantial piece of written work.
These are assessed by two members of the Centre for Criminology, who will also interview you about your work.
A similar exercise then takes place in your sixth term (twelfth term for the part-time pathway) when you will apply for Confirmation of DPhil status to show that your work continues to be on track.
After three or at most four years (no later than eight years for the part-time pathway), you are expected to submit your original final thesis.
Your thesis of between 75,000 and 100,000 words will be read by two appointed examiners who conduct an in-depth oral examination with you, known as a viva voce.
On the basis of their report, you will either be awarded the DPhil Criminology or referred back to make revisions to the thesis.
Recent graduates of the DPhil Criminology have pursued careers in the following areas:
The qualifications above should be achieved in one of the following subject areas or disciplines:
Applicants will normally have:
Potential applicants should identify any relevant publications which may enhance their application.
They may, in certain circumstances, advantage an application but it is appreciated that the opportunity to publish may vary considerably depending on factors such as the stage the student has reached in their graduate career and the structure of the course(s) they have studied.
Consequently, a lack of publications will not be assessed negatively.
Interviews are not normally held as part of the admissions process, though prospective supervisors may contact you for an online meeting to discuss your research plans before the Admissions Board meets to review applications.
Further details regarding informal enquiries can be found on the Centre for Criminology website.
Further information about funding opportunities for this course can be found on the faculty's website, and the Centre for Criminology website.
Supervision is arranged by the department at the point of admission and you do not need to contact potential supervisors before an offer is made.
However, the Centre welcomes informal enquiries from potential applicants to the DPhil.
The person you contact will not be able to help you with the proposal, but they will be able to advise you on whether they are, in principle, able to supervise your proposed project.
You are encouraged to visit the relevant departmental webpages to read any further information about your chosen course.
Academic references are strongly preferred, provided by individuals familiar with the applicant's academic performance but a professional reference will be accepted as long as you also provide two academic references.
It is recommended that at least one reference is from your current course supervisor/tutor.
Part-time applicants can submit two professional references but should also include an academic reference where possible.
Your references will support exceptional academic motivation; capacity for sustained and intense work; developed ability to organise time and set own agenda for study; and an intrepid attitude towards investigation and learning.
Your proposal should give details of the topic you propose to investigate, why it is legally or sociologically significant, and how you would carry out the research.
It should also reflect the research interests and expertise of academics in the centre (see the list of areas in which members of the centre are able to offer supervision in About the Course).
The proposal should be written in English, and the word limit does not need to include any bibliography or brief footnotes.
You should nevertheless make the best effort you can to demonstrate the extent of your research question, sources and methods at the time of application.
Your proposal should focus on the proposed research project rather than personal achievements, interests and aspirations.
However, you can make reference to any directly relevant personal achievements, interests or experiences that speak to the feasibility of the proposed project and to your motivations for research.
Applicants for part-time study may include a report, or sections of a report, or other relevant document, they have written in their professional roles.
Extracts from longer pieces are welcome but should be prefaced by a note which puts them in context and it should be indicated with square brackets which elements have been omitted from the original piece of work.
Ideally the works should relate to the proposed area of study.
This will be assessed for a comprehensive understanding of the subject area, an understanding of problems in the area, an ability to construct and defend an argument, your powers of analysis and powers of expression.
This course is offered by the Centre for Criminology within the Faculty of Law
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)1865 274444

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/msc-criminology-and-criminal-justice:
A stimulating and demanding programme, involving intensive learning in small groups, the MSc in Criminology and Criminal Justice will equip you with an advanced understanding of crime and criminal justice, comprising courses in criminological theory, the study of criminal justice, and training in research design and methodology.
The MSc in Criminology and Criminal Justice is offered on both a full-time (one-year) and part-time (two-year) basis.
The degree and expectations for both modes of study are equally rigorous.
Part-time students take their classes with the full-time students, but spread over two years to accommodate work and personal circumstances.
The MSc is comprised of compulsory courses, option subjects and a dissertation.
Full-time students will be expected to spend around 40 hours studying each week during term, and to undertake some further study during vacations.
During the first two terms you will be advised to divide your time between the core course and your other courses as follows:
Please see the full-time MSc webpage for further details of the full-time course.
Part-time students will be expected to commit to a proportional workload.
A part-time student has the following schedule:
Year 1:
Year 2:
Please see the part-time MSc webpage for further details of the part-time course.
Compulsory courses run weekly during the first two terms: Criminological Theories and Criminal Justice in Michaelmas and Hilary terms and Research Design and Data Collection in Michaelmas Term.
A further compulsory (but non-examined) course is run weekly in the third term.
The course begins by exploring the key cross-cutting themes of race, gender, and global approaches in criminology.
This course develops understanding of the organising categories and central claims of a range of modern criminological perspectives of crime and social control.
It will equip you to recognise the main problems, questions, dichotomies and ideas that have shaped modern criminological thought, to understand the nature of ‘theory’ and ‘explanation’ within criminology, and to both appreciate and critique the history and development of criminological thought.
The course explores criminological and global understanding of criminal justice/penal institutions and processes.
The course introduces you to research on these processes, their underlying competing theoretical perspectives, and contemporary issues and controversies in criminal justice and punishment.
The course encourages you to think about the role of the state/criminal law in the regulation of human behaviour and the place and limitations of criminal justice interventions in producing safe societies.
Part-time students take this course in their first year of study.
This compulsory course, which runs in the first term, is focused on the challenges and the opportunities that different methods of data collection have for validity and reliability of data.
Methods include experiments and quasi-experiments; questionnaires and survey research; field research, and the collection of written documents.
The scientific method, theory testing and research design will also be discussed.
Ethical concerns are given special emphasis.
Part-time students take this course in the first term of their first year of study.
This final compulsory course runs in the third term.
Weekly seminars focus on developing academic skills and supporting students in the development of their dissertations.
Full-time students will take five option modules over the first and second terms of the year.
Part-time students take a total of five option modules across the two years of study.
Option modules run for seven weeks in each term.
Recent option modules have included:
Please note that not all options run every year.
You will be encouraged to attend the All Souls Criminology Seminars with invited speakers, held fortnightly on Thursdays during term time.
The centre arranges several events throughout the year to which all MSc students, along with other members of the centre such as MSc course tutors, MPhil and DPhil students, research officers and associates are invited.
You will also have the opportunity to broaden your knowledge via the great number of lectures in other courses and public seminars offered by both the centre and other departments and colleges within the University.
You will have the opportunity to meet and hear presentations from leading scholars from around the world, as well as practitioners working in criminal justice through the centre’s active academic visitor’s programme.
The full-time programme is studied over 9 months, the part-time programme has the same requirements, but is studied over 21 months.
Although there will be no requirement to live in Oxford, part-time students must attend the Centre for Criminology at least two days per week in term-time for seminars, and supervision meetings.
You will have access to the Bodleian Law Library and Bodleian Social Science Library.
Training on how to use the library’s legal and journal database is jointly provided by the Faculty of Law and the Bodleian Social Sciences Library.
You will also be able to draw on the many resources and provisions of the Faculty of Law and the Social Sciences Division.
Throughout the term, the Faculty of Law and various departments in the Social Sciences division host lectures, seminars and social events of interest to criminology students.
You will also have the opportunity to pursue your interests through Oxford Pro Bono Publico, Oxford Transitional Justice Research and a number of interdisciplinary student bodies.
Students usually meet with their supervisor once a term.
The Criminological Theories and Criminal Justice course assessment will be conducted by a timed in-person examination.
Research methods courses are examined by means of an assessment to be submitted at the end of the relevant term.
These courses also have some term-time assignments which are assessed on a pass/fail basis.
All other options are examined by means of an assessed essay, also to be submitted at the end of the term in which the option runs.
In addition to the options you take, you will write a dissertation during the third term.
Part-time students will write their dissertations in the third term of their second year, but will be encouraged to start planning their dissertation from their first year.
The dissertation will be researched and written independently, with only minimum guidance from your dissertation supervisor.
This is also supported by a compulsory but non-assessed course, Academic Skills for Criminologists, attended by both full-time and part-time students.
Graduates from the programme have recently gone on into the following areas:
Extensive employment experience within the broad field of criminal justice may be regarded by the Board of Admissions as compensating for a lack of an undergraduate degree to the required standard.
Normally, references will be provided by individuals familiar with the applicant's academic performance.
It is recommended that at least one reference is from your current programme supervisor/tutor.
In exceptional circumstances, other professional references will be accepted.
Your statement should be written in English and explain your motivation for applying for the course at Oxford, your relevant experience and education, and the specific academic areas that interest you and/or you intend to specialise in.
Extracts from longer pieces are welcome but should be prefaced by a note which puts them in context and it should be indicated with square brackets what elements have been omitted from the original piece of work.
It is not permitted to submit just one essay of 4,000 words.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/ecowild:
The EcoWild NERC Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) programme has been designed to deliver the next generation of innovative researchers and conservationists needed to protect some of the Earth’s most vulnerable and valuable ecosystems.
Multiple stressors, such as climatic extremes and chemical pollution, are driving biodiversity declines.
Wetlands and fringing ecosystems are exceptionally biodiverse, critical for combating the climate emergency and essential for enhancing community resilience to extreme weather events such as storms and floods.
These ecosystems are among the most threatened globally, impacted by multiple environmental stressors.
However, our understanding of these impacts is limited, thereby hindering conservation and restoration efforts, and impeding their potential as nature-based and bioengineered solutions.
EcoWild Doctoral research projects will address these knowledge gaps.
EcoWild is a unique partnership, led by Heriot-Watt University, that brings together research expertise and innovation across various fields including environmental toxicology, ecology, multiple stressor theory and modelling, wetland conservation and restoration, socioeconomics, community engagement, management and governance; and involves some of the leading UK experts in these fields.
Full research themes and details of the partnership can be found on the EcoWild website (For links see Further information and enquiries ).
Projects based at Oxford will be in the Department of Biology and you will have a co-supervisor from one of the other academic partners (Heriot-Watt University, University of York, University of the Highlands and Islands, Centre for Ecology and Hydrology) and a co-supervisor from a non-academic partner (such as Natural England, the Freshwater Biological Association, Scottish Government Marine and Fisheries).
Each year you will also receive world class taught training in multi-stressor science and wetland ecology in a mix of in-person cohort-building events and online training.
The training is enriched through the active involvement of our associated partners, who contribute to the design and delivery of the programme, organise challenge events, and offer secondments and internships.
This provides students with valuable real world experience in addressing environmental problems and working in a professional environment.
In addition to specialised training, EcoWild students will attend careers events and established workshops, including for data management, time management, leadership, writing skills and viva preparation, aligning with the Vitae Research Development Framework.
As a doctoral student, your primary focus will be your research and the majority of your time will, therefore, be spent in independent self-directed research and will involve a mixture of experimental, computational and observational activities.
The Department of Biology has a friendly graduate community which provides a welcoming network to new students.
The graduate student community offers a supportive environment, both social and scientific, allowing new graduates to develop into well- rounded and confident scientists.
You will usually spend four years if you are studying full-time or eight years if studying part-time.
Most students will be based in the Life and Mind Building, but some research groups are based the John Krebs Field Station, or the Wildlife Conservation Research Unit.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Department of Biology.
You will have the opportunity to meet with a supervisor to assess progress and discuss academic issues.
Most students meet with their supervisor twice a month on average, however this may vary.
Within a maximum of six terms as a PRS student if studying full-time (around 12 terms if studying part-time), you will be expected to apply for transfer of status from Probationer Research Student to DPhil status.
(likely to be by the eight term for part-time students).
This will need to be done within nine terms of admission if studying full-time, or around 18 terms if studying part-time.
Full-time students will be expected to submit a substantial thesis of up to 50,000 words after four years from the date of admission, or after eight years for part-time students.
To be successfully awarded a DPhil in Biology you will need to defend your thesis orally (viva voce) in front of two appointed examiners.
DPhil graduates in biological sciences at Oxford continue to a wide range of careers after graduating.
You will apply to and be initially assessed by the EcoWild Management Committee via the Heriot-Watt University website.
Your application to the University of Oxford will be assessed against the entry requirements shown below.
Appropriate subjects include:
Admission does not normally require a master's level qualification.
It would be expected that graduate applicants would be familiar with the recent published work of their proposed supervisor and have an understanding of the background to their proposed area of study.
Interviews are normally held as part of the admissions process and are expected to take place in March.
The interview panel will be made up of staff from both the University of Oxford and Heriot-Watt University.
It will last for up to 30 minutes and will take place online.
Interviewees will be expected to answer questions on topics relevant to the advertised project.
Answers should demonstrate general knowledge, understanding of and enthusiasm for the particular area of research, competence in the English language, and where appropriate, numeracy in the treatment of biological data.
We expect that the majority of applicants who are offered a place on this course will also be offered a fully-funded scholarship specific to this course, covering course fees for the full duration of your fee liability for the course, and a living stipend for three years and eight months (for full-time students) or seven years and four months for part-time students.
Fee status Annual Course fees Home £5,035 Overseas £16,685
The first stage of admission to the EcoWild programme is administered by Heriot-Watt University.
You should visit the Heriot-Watt website for application instructions and deadline information .
To apply and for further details about the course you are advised to contact Heriot-Watt using the details on their website.
Your application will be initially assessed by Heriot-Watt University.
The application fee which is usually payable per course application, will be waived for all applications to this course.
You do not need to make contact with the department before you apply, but you are encouraged to visit the relevant departmental webpages to read any further information about your chosen course.
You must first apply to Heriot-Watt by the deadline shown in the Heriot-Watt application instructions.
How to Apply to Heriot-Watt
If your application has passed the initial assessment by Heriot-Watt , you will be invited to complete an application to the University of Oxford.
Please provide the title of the specific research project that you have been offered by EcoWild.
You can re-use the CV you provided in your Heriot-Watt application.
You can re-use the statement provided in your Heriot-Watt application.
Refer to Heriot-Watt website for admission status of Stage 1 applications
Refer to Heriot-Watt website for deadline
If your application has passed the initial assessment by Heriot-Watt, you will be invited to apply to the University of Oxford and will be provided with a deadline.
*New course for entry in 2024-25
This course is offered by Oxford's Department of Biology and led by Heriot-Watt University
✉ [email protected] ☎ +44 (0)131 449 5111

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/courses/robotics-ai-net-zero:
The EPSRC CDT in Robotics and AI for Net Zero (RAINZ) is a joint programme between the Universities of Manchester, Glasgow and Oxford.
It will train the next generation of engineers in the robotics and AI (RAI) technologies needed to support the UK's net zero agenda.
Students on the RAINZ CDT will be trained in both research and commercialisation of robotics and AI technologies to support the lifecycle asset management of critical net zero energy generation infrastructure.
RAINZ is structured around an innovative cohort training and research model to ensure graduates are not only subject matter experts, but have highly valuable skills in teamworking, multi-disciplinary systems integration, industrial engagement, and commercialisation.
Each cohort will be recruited to conduct research directed towards an industry co-created, cross-sector cohort challenge which will be different for each new cohort.
The research focus of the CDT will be on robotics and AI (RAI) to provide step-changes at each stage of the lifecycle of Net Zero energy generation assets, such as wind turbines, solar arrays, or nuclear reactors.
This will be done through the creation of new innovative technologies, workflows, etc which will increase safety, reduce costs, decarbonize operations and enhance the overall viability of such systems.
Initially students will focus on the use of RAI in operations and maintenance of Net Zero assets (O&M), through inspection, maintenance, and repair activities; and in the decommissioning of infrastructure in renewables (wind, solar, geothermal, tidal, hydrogen) and nuclear (fission and fusion).
The research in the CDT will also support the decarbonization of these assets across their lifecycle phases in a diverse range of sectors.
The scope of research will expand through the lifetime of the CDT to include the other lifecycle phases: design, logistics, construction, and recycling.
Within Oxford, research will focus on RAI topics aligned with the research themes of the principle investigators within the Oxford Robotics Institute.
In Year 1, students will be enrolled onto an MSc at The University of Manchester related to their PhD research.
Within this year students must achieve a GPA of at least 65% in the exams to be considered for progression to the DPhil.
Students will not be awarded an MSc, as the summer period will be spent undertaking a CDT summer school rather than an MSc dissertation.
Once an Oxford student has moved to the DPhil portion of the CDT, they will be based in the Oxford Robotics Institute within the group or groups of their local supervision team.
The first year of this course is based at the University of Manchester.
Following this, RAINZ students studying at Oxford will move to the University of Oxford, and will be subject to the University's residence requirements for full-time students.
There are strong links with researchers in other departments in the mathematical and physical sciences and, ever increasingly, with researchers and practitioners in medical science departments and University hospitals.
The research clusters are well-supported by experienced teams of technical, computing, and administrative support staff.
You will have access to well-equipped research areas and workshops.
For RAINZ students based at the University of Oxford, the allocation of graduate supervision is the responsibility of the Department of Engineering Science and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances a supervisor may be found outside the Department of Engineering Science.
As well as supervision, the student will be a part of a RAINZ cohort of students that will take part in meetings and training activities throughout their period of study.
Students based in the Oxford Robotics Institute will also take part in group and Institute meetings.
In the first year at the University of Manchester, students will be continually assessed as part of their MSc course.
Students must achieve a GPA of at least 65% in the exams to be considered for progression to the DPhil.
A successful transfer of status from PRS to DPhil status will require a satisfactory research proposal and evidence of research skills (usually in the form of a draft paper).
The final thesis is normally submitted for examination during the fourth year and is followed by the viva examination.
The final award for Oxford-based students will be a DPhil awarded by the University of Oxford.
As this is a new course, there is no graduate destination data.
However graduates are expected to pursue a course in either the net zero industry or academia.
Your application will initially be assessed by the RAINZ CDT against the entry requirements for the particular project you are applying to.
An interview with the University of Oxford will be conducted following your application.
A previous master's degree is not required in order to be considered for the course.
Applications from mature students or students returning from industry to education are also encouraged.
In these cases the degree requirements may be demonstrated through appropriate professional experience.
An initial shortlisting process will be run by the RAINZ CDT team based on your application and its fit to your nominated projects.
Interviews will be conducted by members of the RAINZ consortium as well as the supervision team for one of the projects you have applied for.
Interviews will typically cover both the technical background knowledge required for the project, as well as more general skills and experience related to engineering, robotics, and AI.
Details of the timescales for interviews and decisions will be published on the RAINZ website.
All applicants who are offered a place on this course will be offered a fully-funded scholarship, covering all course fees for the duration of their course and a living stipend.
The fee rates at the University of Manchester for each of the first year MSc courses are published in the links under 'MSc options' on the RAINZ CDT website.
For an indication of costs at the University of Oxford, the table below shows the annual course fees for the 2025-26 academic year for the RAINZ CDT at Oxford.
Please note that the estimated living costs above are for study at the University of Oxford.
You are advised to consult the guidance about living costs at the University of Manchester for the first year of the course.
The following colleges accept students on the RAINZ CDT :
Brasenose College Exeter College Hertford College Jesus College Keble College Kellogg College Lady Margaret Hall Linacre College Pembroke College Reuben College St Cross College St Edmund Hall Wadham College Wolfson College Worcester College
The first stage of admission to the RAINZ CDT is administered by RAINZ CDT.
You should visit the RAINZ CDT website for application instructions and deadline information .
To apply and for further details about the course you are advised to contact the RAINZ CDT admissions team using the details on their website .
Your application will be initially assessed by the RAINZ CDT against the eligibility requirements for the particular project you are applying to .
The application fee of £20, which is usually payable per application to the University of Oxford, will be waived for all applications to this course.
Informal enquiries about the overall RAINZ CDT, including questions about the admissions process, should be made to the RAINZ CDT admissions team using the details on their website .
Enquiries about individual projects should be made to the supervisors listed for each project.
You must first apply to RAINZ CDT by 5pm on Tuesday 11 February 2025.
How to Apply to RAINZ Apply to RAINZ CDT
If your application has passed the initial assessment by RAINZ CDT , you will be invited to complete an application to the University of Oxford.
Only candidates who have been invited to proceed and provided with a unique CDT application ID should submit an application to the University of Oxford.
Under 'Proposed field and title of research project' enter the title of the research project that you are applying to.
Under 'Proposed supervisor name' enter the name of the lead supervisor on the research project you are applying to.
You can re-use the statement provided in your RAINZ CDT application.
Refer to RAINZ CDT website for admission status of Stage 1 applications
Refer to RAINZ CDT website for deadline
If your application has passed the initial assessment by RAINZ CDT, you will be invited to apply to the University of Oxford and will be provided with a deadline.
*Admissions for this course are co-managed with RAINZ CDT.
This course is jointly offered by the University's Department of Engineering Science and RAINZ CDT

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/contact-us:
If you have a query about graduate admissions at Oxford, we're here to help.
In no more than six questions , our help tool will direct you to the most appropriate advice and assistance.
Hello, please could you start by telling me why you'd like our assistance today?
I have a query about postgraduate study at Oxford.
I don't hold a degree and I'm not currently studying for one, but I'd like to study at Oxford.
I have been asked to write a reference to support an application.
Thank you for agreeing to provide a reference in support of an application for postgraduate study.
We provide detailed advice for referees on this website and our frequently asked questions portal.
All the links below will open in a new window so you can continue to refer back to this page.
If you haven't done so already, please consult out dedicated page that provides information for referees .
The page provides guidance for submitting your reference, information about what we're looking for in a reference letter, and advice on automated emails, reminders and deadlines.
If you're looking for more information about the course the applicant has applied to, you can find the course using our A-Z of courses .
We also offer some specific answers to frequently asked questions:
Admission to the majority of the postgraduate courses offered on this website requires that you already hold, or are in the process of completing, an undergraduate degree.
In a small number of cases, substantial professional experience may be considered as an alternative to a degree qualification.
Please consult the entry requirements on our course pages for details.
If you don't hold a degree and aren't currently studying for one , you may wish to consider applying to one of the many undergraduate degree courses at Oxford .
If you have a query about any of these courses, please contact the undergraduate admissions team online (telephone support is not available for undergraduate courses).
Some of the courses we offer don't follow the standard application process that's described on this website.
Which course does your enquiry relate to?
Medicine (Graduate Entry)
DClinPsych in Clinical Psychology
The Skaggs-Oxford DPhil programme in Biochemistry.
National Institutes of Health Oxford-Cambridge Scholars Programme in Biomedical Sciences.
A course offered by the Said Business School (eg MBA, EMBA or an executive diploma).
A course that uses the standard graduate application form.
The course page provides full details about the course, information about the application process, and contact details for all enquiries .
Open the Skaggs-Oxford course page
For this course, you must first apply to the National Institutes of Health (NIH).
Open the NIH OxCam course page
The Saïd Business School manages its own application process and uses a separate application system for all courses, except the MSc in Law and Finance .
Please contact the school directly for all enquiries.
Links to individual course pages, which contain the relevant contact details , can be accessed via the list of Saïd Business School courses:
List of Saïd Business School courses
We would like to tailor our advice based on your progress in applying.
Please can you tell us what stage you've reached in the application process?
I am interested in applying to a graduate course, but I haven't started an application.
I’ve started an application to a graduate course, but I haven't submitted it.
I’ve submitted an application for a graduate course at Oxford.
Thanks for starting an application with us.
Would you like assistance or advice with completing the application form, or is your enquiry about something else?
Yes, my question is related to the application process.
No, I have another question about postgraduate study at Oxford.
Thank you for submitting an application.
Is your enquiry related to the outcome of your application?
No, my question is about something else.
Yes, I’ve submitted an application and I'd like to know the outcome.
Yes, the department has informed me of the outcome of my application and I have a question.
There's lots of advice we can offer if you're thinking about starting an application.
What would you like to know more about?
I'd like to apply to a postgraduate course at Oxford, but I need some help getting started.
I'm not sure how to choose a course to apply to.
I'm trying to find out the entry requirements for postgraduate study at Oxford.
I'm looking for guidance on the equivalency of international grades and qualifications.
I'd like to know when the application deadlines are.
I'd like to know if accommodation is available for postgraduate students.
I'd like some advice about the collegiate system and how to choose a college.
I'm trying to find out about visa requirements for international students.
I'd like to know what funding is available to graduate students.
I have a query about a topic that isn't mentioned above.
What aspect of your application can we help you with today?
I'm trying to find out the entry requirements for the course I've chosen to apply to.
I have a query about the supporting documents that are required.
I'd like some guidance on references.
I'd like to know how applications are assessed.
I'd like to know how I can pay the application fee and whether I might be eligible for a waiver.
I have a technical query about the application form (eg accepted file formats).
Do you know whether your application is complete and ready for assessment?
Yes, my application is complete and ready for assessment.
I'm not sure.
No, my application is missing one or more supporting materials.
What would you like to ask us about today?
I'd like to know how applications are assessed and when I will hear the outcome.
Notused
If you're thinking about postgraduate study at Oxford but aren't sure where to start, our guide to getting started provides information about:
The guide provides a ten step journey to starting an application at Oxford.
Oxford offers a wide range of graduate courses from postgraduate certificates to doctorates.
Before you start looking for a course in a particular subject area, you may want to learn more about the different types of course that we offer , such as Master of Philosophy (MPhil) or  Doctoral training programmes (CDTs and DTPs).
If you're already familiar with the types of postgraduate courses at Oxford, you may wish to narrow your search by choosing a department .
Our A-Z of courses offers the ability to search by keyword, so you can enter a topic of interest.
You can also filter by course type, as well as restricting your search to full-time, part-time or online study .
Whatever method you use to select a course, make sure you that read carefully the entry requirements section of the course page before starting your application.
If you're still unsure where to start, our guide to getting started is the best place to begin your journey.
FAQs - Applying to Oxford
As well as belonging to an academic department, all graduate students at Oxford also belong to a college (except those taking non-matriculated courses).
Your journey to postgraduate study at Oxford should begin by choosing a course to apply to.
Once you've decided on a course, the 'college preference' section of the course page will show which colleges accept students from that course.
When you fill in the application form you'll have the option to specify a preference for any of the colleges that are listed on the course page.
Alternatively you can choose not to state a preference and let us find you a college place.
If you're unsure whether to express a college preference or aren't sure which college to choose, our guide to choosing a college provides information about factors you may wish to consider.
Our college pages provide a helpful guide to what each college has to offer.
Remember that if you do state a preference for a college, you may still receive an offer from a different college.
You can find the entry requirements for each course in the 'Entry requirements' section of its course page .
If your qualifications aren't from the UK, visit our International Qualifications page for guidance on the grades and qualifications that are considered equivalent to the University's minimum entry requirements.
If your qualifications aren't listed , or you are still unsure whether your previous academic study will enable you to make a competitive application, contact the relevant academic department using the contact details on the course page , under 'Course-related enquiries'.
The Graduate Admissions Team cannot advise you on your likelihood of being accepted for a particular graduate course.
Remember that Oxford’s graduate admission process is very competitive.
The University is committed to supporting applicants from underrepresented and disadvantaged groups via a range of graduate access schemes, but you are unlikely to be offered a place if your qualifications are below the minimum entry requirements for your course unless you have significant extenuating circumstances.
Similarly, meeting the minimum entry requirements doesn’t guarantee that your application will be successful.
FAQs - Entry Requirements
Our database of frequently asked questions covers most common queries about entry requirements:
The deadlines for each course are stated on the course page .
We strongly recommend that you submit your application form and all of your supporting documents at least two weeks before your chosen deadline.
To be eligible for Oxford scholarships, you must apply by the December or January deadline used by your course.
If your course uses a November deadline, applications submitted by this deadline will also be eligible for Oxford scholarships.
The 'Oxford scholarships' section of the application form will be removed after the funding deadline for your course has passed.
As this may not happen immediately, please do ensure that you apply by the funding deadline for your course if you wish to be considered for funding.
Our Application Guide provides further information about the different deadlines , including what happens if you miss a deadline.
Our database of frequently asked questions also covers most common queries:
FAQs - Deadlines
The University expects to be able to offer over 1,000 full or partial graduate scholarships across the collegiate University in 2024-25.
You will be automatically considered for the majority of Oxford scholarships , if you fulfil the eligibility criteria and submit your graduate application by the relevant December or January deadline.
The 'Funding and costs' section on each of our course pages may also provide information about course-specific funding that's available.
Our Application Guide provides further information about funding and applying for scholarships .
FAQs - Funding
In order to take up a place on one of our courses, you must be able to demonstrate English language proficiency at the University's standard or higher level .
Each course page states the required level for that course.
You can use out self-evaluation tool to help you decide whether you need to provide evidence of English language proficiency:
Self-evaluation tool
Our Application Guide provides further information about English language proficiency , and deals with the following topics:
You may also wish to consult the information about English Language Test waivers and the circumstances under which that may be considered.
FAQs - English language
If your qualifications aren't from the UK, visit our International Qualifications page for guidance on the grades and qualifications that are considered equivalent to the University's minimum entry requirements.
If your qualifications aren't listed, or you're still unsure whether your previous academic study will enable you to make a competitive application, contact the relevant academic department using the contact details on your course page .
FAQs - International qualifications
The application fee is £75 per taught course application (MPhil, MSc, MSt, PGDip, PGCert and MPhil + DPhil Economics) and £20 per research course application (CDT, DPhil, MSc by Research, DPhil Neuroscience (1+3), MPhil Socio-Legal Research and MPhil Law) unless you are eligible for an application fee waiver.
The fee is used to deliver our Graduate Access programmes , as part of the University’s commitment to increasing access to study at Oxford .
This helps us to support applicants and potential applicants from all backgrounds, at every stage of their journey into graduate study at Oxford.
Application fee waivers are available to some groups of students and full details about the different types of waiver that are available can be found in our Application Guide.
The application fee section of the Application Guide also provides information to help if you:
FAQs - Application Fee
Ordinarily, your college will explain their process for applying for accommodation when you receive your college offer.
Our Accommodation page proves further information about accommodation for graduate students , including college accommodation, University accommodation and private accommodation.
FAQs - Accommodation
As part of your application, you will need to supply a number of supporting documents.
The list of documents will depend on the course you are applying to and can be found in the 'How to Apply' section of the relevant course page .
This provides information about each required document, such as guidance on length/word count and how it will be assessed.
Our Application Guide page proves further information about supporting documents , including requirements and how to upload them to the application form.
The page includes dedicated sections on the following topics:
In addition to the Application Guide, our database of frequently asked questions also covers most common queries:
FAQs - Supporting Documents
Our Application Guide page proves further information about references , including how to choose and register referees.
The page also includes dedicated sections on the following types:
FAQs - References
Our decision timeline provides an overview of what happens after you have submitted your application.
It includes dedicated sections that provide advice and guidance on the following topics:
The entry requirements for each course can be found on each course page .
FAQs - Selection Process
If you are applying to a course with college membership and were accepted by the academic department, you are guaranteed a college place.
You can see whether there are colleges associated with your course on your course page.
The process of college placement will begin automatically once your academic department accepts you and you do not need to contact colleges yourself.
Further information about college places , including advice about tracking your college place, can be found in our decision timeline.
Our Visas and immigration page provides detailed information about visa requirements , including the Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) .
Our extensive database of FAQs also provides helpful advice:
FAQS - Visas and immigration
Our Application Guide explains how to apply for graduate study at Oxford, including how to complete the application form and provide supporting documents.
If you've consulted the guide and still have a question, our database of frequently asked questions also covers most common queries:
FAQs - Application guidance
If you've consulted the guide and have a technical question (eg about file formats for supporting documents), our database of frequently asked questions also covers most common queries:
FAQs - Technical assistance
The University of Oxford’s Graduate Applicant Self Service tool allows you to manage your application once you have submitted it.
The tool allows you to:
If you upload replacement documents after the deadline (excluding transcripts and language test scores), we will reject them, as accepting them would change the completion date of your application and result in your application being considered late and not considered by the academic department.
You can access Graduate Applicant Self Service for submitted applications after you log in to the online application system:
Applicant Self-Service Guide Log in for self service
For further details about how to use the service, please see the Graduate Applicant Self Service instructions .
If you are still missing any required documents after you apply, you will be able to upload these via Graduate Applicant Self-Service .
If you are uploading a document that has previously been uploaded, the original will be removed/replaced, except for transcripts and test scores, where multiple documents will be retained on your application.
You must ensure that you upload any missing documents before the application deadline for the course you are applying for.
Please do not upload any documents that are not required to support your application, such as a degree certificate or photograph.
Once your application is ready for assessment, you will only be able to upload transcripts and/or English language test results.
After this point, you will not be able to upload updated versions of the following:
If your application was incomplete at the deadline, we will accept outstanding documents if they meet our requirements, but your application will still be considered incomplete at the deadline and is unlikely to be assessed by the academic department.
If a later separate deadline is in operation for the course to which you are applying, your application will become complete for that deadline.
Once a decision has been made on your application, no further documents can be uploaded.
FAQs - Supplementary Materials
You will usually find out by email whether your application is successful from your academic department about eight to ten weeks after the application deadline.
If the course has closed to applications more that ten weeks ago (refer to the deadlines and 'admissions status' on the relevant course page ) please contact the department directly using the details on the course page .
If the course is still accepting applications, or ten weeks have not yet passed since applications closed, please be assured that the department will be in touch once a decision has been made.
There is no need to contact anyone to discuss your application at this stage.
Our decision timeline provides more information about what to expect after you have submitted an application .
You may also wish to read the frequently asked questions about the selection process .
Please contact the department directly using the contact details provided in the correspondence from the department.
Alternatively, you can contact the department directly using the details on the relevant course page .
That answered my question.
I'll follow the advice above.
I'd still like to contact someone.
We're glad we were able to help you today.
Please return to this page at any time to ask a further question .
We're sorry that this didn't answer your question.
You can search our list of frequently asked questions , or ask a specific question and we'll be happy to reply by email.
If you would prefer to contact us by phone, please consult our telephone support hours .
Contact hours for telephone support

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/visitors/visiting-oxford:
You'll find ancient and modern colleges, fascinating museums and galleries, and plenty of parks, gardens and green spaces in which to relax.
Plus, the city centre is small enough to cover on foot, and only a few minutes walk from the main rail and coach stations.
">Video of Oxford from the air - 30 second teaser
Oxford is not a campus university, so it is not all located on one site.
It is made up of many different buildings, including academic departments, colleges and halls, located around the centre of Oxford.
Many University buildings, such as gardens, libraries and museums, as well as many of the colleges, are open to visitors during the day, although please note that they may have varying opening hours, fees and rules for groups.
You can find more information, including opening times and fees, at the links below:
To make the most of your visit, bring along a copy of our leaflet, ' Explore the University of Oxford ', which contains a map and information on opening times of colleges, museums and other places of interest.
Oxford University does not organise tours but a city walking tour is offered by the Bodleian Libraries in association with the Oxford Guild of Tour Guides.
The tours, all operated by Blue and Green Badge Guides, begin at the beautiful modern Weston Library before heading through the historic and famous streets of the city.
Tours take around two hours and can be booked through the Bodleian Libraries .
A number of independent operators also offer guided tours of Oxford.
A range of general and themed tours are available, as are tours by cycle, rickshaw and bus.
For a list of tour companies, please visit the Daily Information website.
Please note that all operators are independent of Oxford University.
Details are provided here for information only.
The collegiate University is committed to improving access and is currently continuing to develop its Access guide .
As more of our historic buildings are modified the Access guide will become more comprehensive.
In the meantime, the Access guide is a helpful first point for information on accessible buildings.
If you're thinking about applying for an undergraduate degree and want to see more of Oxford, our Virtual Open Days are an excellent opportunity to see the University, get to know the city, and meet tutors and students.
Experience Oxfordshire offers advice on walking tours, accommodation, things to do in Oxford, and more.
Make sure to bring your Alumni Card with you and see our special offers on the Alumni website

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/visitors/visiting-oxford/how-get-oxford:
This page will help you travel to and around the city of Oxford.
Oxford is not a campus university, so once you're here you can use our interactive, searchable map of Oxford's colleges, halls, departments, libraries and museums to find your way around or download our interactive and accessible Explore Oxford University Map .
You can also use Google Maps to find your way around Oxford on foot or using public transport.
From London Heathrow and Gatwick airports, take The Airline coach service , which runs 24 hours a day.
You can also get to Oxford by train from Heathrow via London, and from Gatwick via Reading.
From London Stansted airport, take the Stansted Express train service to London Liverpool Street and then take the tube to either Paddington or Marylebone for direct trains to Oxford.
Alternatively there is a National Express 737 coach service .
Direct services run from London Paddington (serving Oxford station) and London Marylebone (serving Oxford and Oxford Parkway stations) .
Other services operate from the north via Birmingham New Street; from the south via Reading; and from the west via Didcot or Reading.
For details and to plan your journey, see contact National Rail Enquiries .
Oxford Railway Station is a 5-10 minute walk from the centre of Oxford.
Please use Google Maps or our interactive map to find your way from the station to the part of the University you are visiting.
The Oxford Tube offers a direct service between Oxford and London, running a frequent timetable on a virtually 24-hour basis, Monday to Sunday.
For information on coaches from other major cities and airports, contact National Express .
The central coach station is at Gloucester Green in the city centre.
Many Oxford streets are closed to traffic and parking is severely limited.
Visitors are encouraged to use the five Park and Ride bus services.
Please refer to Oxfordshire County Council's up-to-date traffic information for details of all local road works and any disruptions likely to delay your journey.
There are five Park and Ride sites which serve Oxford City Centre.
Please note that Thornhill and Seacourt are often full, particularly on University Open Days.
We recommend that drivers coming from the east (including London), the south and the west use the Redbridge Park and Ride, while drivers arriving from the north can choose between Pear Tree and Oxford Parkway.
The Oxford Bus Company has information on Park and Ride services 300 and 400 .
The latest timetable for Stagecoach 7 is available here .
Oxford City Council has further information on Park and Ride sites.
Parking in Oxford city centre is limited and can be expensive.
For information on car parks, on-street parking and costs of parking, see Oxfordshire County Council's website .
For information on parking in Oxford for people with disabilities, please see Oxford City Council's Blue Badge scheme .
BUT PLEASE NOTE: The University of Oxford is not a campus university and our colleges, departments and other constituent units are to be found throughout the city of Oxford, rather than on one central site.
Departmental and college addresses may be found on individual college and departmental websites.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/visitors/visiting-oxford/visiting-the-colleges:
Here you will find information on opening times and admission charges, where these apply, for the colleges and permanent private halls of Oxford University, and links to their individual websites.
You will also find links to virtual tours of some of the colleges.
If you are interested in studying at Oxford University, please see our information for prospective students including information on colleges for prospective undergraduates
(Image: Blackwell Quad, credit David Fisher)

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/visitors/visiting-oxford/places-to-eat:
The Ashmolean Museum houses the University’s extensive collections of art and antiquities, ranging back over four millennia.
The basement café offers light lunches, snacks and drinks, while the Rooftop Restaurant is open for lunch, dinner, cocktails and afternoon tea, with regular jazz nights.
The University Museum of Natural History is the largest natural history museum outside London.
Its café offers hot drinks, snacks and sandwiches on the mezzanine overlooking the main exhibition hall.
The Bodleian Libraries ' Weston Library houses regular free public exhibitions, and its café offers hot drinks, snacks and sandwiches in the setting of Blackwell Hall.
The University Parks consist of around 70 acres of beautiful parkland, bordering on the River Cherwell, including sports areas, a duck pond and a large collection of plants and trees in landscaped surroundings.
In the summer, you can visit a refreshment stand run by local sandwich shop Jimbob's Baguettes, selling snacks and drinks.
The University Church has a long and varied history and offers excellent panoramic views of the city.
The Vaults Cafe serves organic food, coffee and snacks.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/visitors/visiting-oxford/university-shops:
When you purchase from the wide range of official Oxford University products available online or at our shops in Oxford, you are helping to support the University's work.
The University's official store has now ceased trading.
Celebrate centuries of history and learning with the Bodleian Library's gift selection.
Working with specialist designers and manufacturers, Bodleian products have been created using images sourced from within its extensive collections.
Each sale provides financial support for the ongoing work of the Library.
Choose from a wide range of gifts including souvenirs, books, posters, jewellery and decorative arts.
Select from guide books, postcards, plants, a small selection of gardening equipment, books for children and adults, gifts, stationery, toiletries and many seasonal items.
Take your pick from a variety of books, catalogues, postcards and more.
The Bate shop features a wide collection of gifts, many with a musical flavour, for you to choose from.
Select from a varied selection of postcards, gifts and books relating to the Museum's collection.
Choose from a wide variety of fossils, minerals, jewellery, books, toys and many more natural history souvenirs, as well as a range of bespoke stationery, clothing, postcards and Museum publications.
The OUP bookshop on the High Street has now permanently closed.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/students/new/knowyouroxford:
If you’ve just started studying at Oxford University or you’re thinking about applying, Know Your Oxford will help you to find your feet in the city.
The podcast will give you an insider’s view to student life in central Oxford.
You'll hear first-hand from those who know what it’s like to be a student here, helping you to settle in.
For the best experience, listen to the podcast episode or follow along with the transcription when you're in Oxford.
If you're not in Oxford, you can still listen to the tour on your device wherever in the world you are.
Your guide for the Know your Oxford podcast episode tour is Alex Beukers, who is a current student at the University.
Alex opens the door to studying at Oxford: outlining the role of the colleges and departments; giving the inside view on Oxford’s academic dress and ceremonies; and pointing out the museums, libraries and other attractions.
The tour also includes practical advice on being a student, with information about the students’ union and University services; and where to find shops, supermarkets, and places to eat and drink.
You can also learn about the Ashmolean museum and Bodleian Libraries, experience the bustling May Morning celebrations at Magdalen Bridge, and more
Winding through the historic heart of Oxford, the tour passes by iconic buildings including the Radcliffe Camera and the Sheldonian Theatre, revealing snippets of the city’s long history as it goes.
Students and staff from across the University help to bring the tour to life, with presidents of the African and Caribbean Society and the Dramatic Society; a librarian at the Bodleian; and college porters all helping to tell the Oxford students’ story.
If you want to get to grips with life at the University, and really know your Oxford, this tour is a must.
Please note, some references such as current retail names may have changed.
Listen to the podcast episode
Know Your Oxford was made possible thanks to the Oxford University Innovation Challenges.
For further information, see the IT Services website .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/students/welfare/counselling:
For appointment and enquiries, please email [email protected] .
When requesting an appointment, you will be asked if you have a strong preference to be seen in-person or online and we will do our best to accommodate this.
For those students who can be flexible and will accept either option, we will allocate the earliest appointment to you that matches your availability.
All Student Welfare and Support Services are firmly committed to embed inclusion in all of our activities.
We seek to deliver services where diversity is valued and respected, with practices that are culturally competent and trauma-informed, and to foster an environment that positively advances equality.
Read the Service's Equality, Diversity and Inclusion statement .
There are contacts for emergency (including out of hours) and non-emergency services for health, welfare and academic support.
E nsuring you have all the tools and support to look after your wellbeing.
Working individually with a counsellor in a meaningfully focussed and brief way.
Explore how you relate to others and benefit from their support and experience.
Access resources which are used to support students at Oxford.
A 24/7 anonymous online community available to all students.
Read our mental health and wellbeing strategy.
The Counselling Service is here to help, request an appointment in person, by phone or email.
The podcasts have been developed to address some of the particular concerns that students at the University speak about when they attend the Counselling Service.
">Video of An Introduction to the Counselling Service at the University of Oxford
Get help in an emergency or crisis situation:
Student Welfare & Support Services Counselling Service 3 Worcester Street Oxford OX1 2BX
Tel: 01865 270300 Email: [email protected]
During term (Weeks 0-9) reception is open 09:00-17:00, Monday-Friday.
For pre-arranged appointments the Service remains open until 20:00, Monday-Thursday
During vacation periods (Weeks 10 to -1) our Service operates between the hours of 9.00-17.00, Monday-Friday
Watch student experiences of counselling

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/student-life/welcoming-and-supportive-community/living-oxford:
Oxford is a young city with over 40,000 students from two universities, and with a third of the population aged under 30.
In addition to its educational institutions, Oxford is also home to motor manufacturing, publishing and a large number of science and technology-based companies.
As you might expect, there are hundreds of cafes, bars, restaurants, music venues, theatres, shops, pubs and clubs catering to this vibrant and cosmopolitan community.
The nightlife is a lot better than I expected.
I mean the pubs, clubs and even venues where bands perform [...] I really enjoy the funk & soul and 80s nights.
Mili
Oxford is a small city, easily explored on foot or by bike or bus.
Importantly, it is also well known as a safe city.
The Complete University Guide ranks Oxford in its top twenty safest student cities .
Green spaces abound, ranging from the huge expanses of Port Meadow and Shotover Hill, the University Parks, Christ Church Meadow, South Park (location for many a festival), to miles of tranquil waterside walks and many other peaceful corners.
If it's entertainment you're looking for, then Oxford offers everything from student club nights to stand up comedy.
The city has classical concerts, plays and musicals, cinemas and an abundance of live-music venues.
The independent Daily Info newsletter lists everything going on in the city and is a great way to find things to do.
Take a look at the map to see that the University’s colleges make up much of Oxford’s city centre.
There is no central University campus.
Typically, they feel spacious and have large gardens, sometimes running alongside the river.
All are within easy distance of the main University buildings, such as the Bodleian Libraries.
Read more on college life and on colleges .
All first year undergraduate students are guaranteed accommodation in their college, and many continue to live in college accommodation for the whole of their degree.
As a first year undergraduate student, you will be offered college accommodation either on the main site of your college or in a nearby college annexe.
This accommodation is guaranteed, so you don’t need to worry about finding somewhere to live after accepting a place here.
All this is organised for you before you arrive.
All colleges offer at least one further year of accommodation for undergraduates and some offer this for the entire duration of your degree.
You may choose to take up any option to live in your college for the whole of your time at Oxford, or you might decide to arrange your own accommodation after your first year - perhaps because you want to live with a spouse, or with friends from other colleges.
If you choose to ‘live out’, Oxford has a large selection of privately-rented houses and flats available.
Living out does tend to be more expensive as houses are normally rented for the whole year rather than just for term time.
However, this does mean that you would have somewhere to stay if you wanted to study out of term or take a holiday job in Oxford.
Students who live out still have use of all their college’s facilities including meals and washing machines.
My best Oxford memory so far is receiving a G&D’s ice cream cake for my birthday.
Charith
All undergraduates are required to live within six miles of central Oxford, or 25 miles if living with your parents or guardians.
There are some exceptions to this but overall Oxford believes that this adds to the strong community feel within every college.
Please visit the University's residency requirements for more information.
The best thing about Oxford as a city is the coffee shops.
Amber
Oxford has excellent transport links.
The city is just over 50 miles (92 km) from London and has great train and coach networks which connect you to international airports at Birmingham, Heathrow and Gatwick.
Situated in central England, Oxford's position makes it perfect for visiting other parts of the UK.
You can be in central London or Birmingham within an hour, get to the south coast in two, or travel cross-country to other destinations such as Manchester, Edinburgh or Bristol.
View 360° images of accommodation
Listen to our guided tour for new and prospective students.
FAQs - Student life and living in Oxford

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/open-days-and-visits/open-days-registration-form:
Please register below to receive more information about our 2025 Undergraduate Open Days.
Our 2025 Open Days will take place on Wednesday 2 July, Thursday 3 July and Friday 19 September.
We can't wait to welcome you and for you to look round our beautiful university city, chat to staff and students and find out first-hand what it's like to study here.
Registration for our Open Days is not compulsory, but by entering your details below you will receive lots of useful information about these events and about applying for undergraduate study at Oxford via our Choosing Oxford newsletter for prospective applicants.
By submitting this form you confirm that you have read and understood the data privacy statement available at: ox.ac.uk/ugprivacy .
In particular, this explains that the information you provide will be held by the University of Oxford in accordance with the University’s data protection policy, the Data Protection Act 1998; and the UK General Data Protection Regulation.
It will be used for the purpose of sending you the information described above and you can unsubscribe anytime.
We may also contact you to ask for your feedback on aspects of these activities.
We will analyse the data in anonymised form in order to evaluate the effectiveness of our communication.
The information you provide will not be passed on to any third parties without your permission and the University does not sell any data to third party organisations.
We use Adestra (a product of Upland) to deliver our email newsletters.
We gather statistics around email opening, user location and clicks using industry standard technologies including clear gifs to help us monitor and improve our email newsletters.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/applying-to-oxford/guide/ucas-application:
If you want to study at Oxford, you need to apply a year before the start date of your course by completing an online UCAS application form .
Applications open in May so you can start work on the form from then.
You won't be able to submit your application until early September.
There is a strict submission deadline of 6pm (UK time) on 15 October.
Your application must be complete - including the academic reference - and submitted before the deadline.
Late applications cannot be accepted.
The deadline for applications is 6pm (UK time) on 15 October and this must be strictly adhered to.
Completing a UCAS application for Oxford follows the same process as for other universities, we just have an earlier submission deadline of 15 October .
Please note that you should not send us as part of your application any certificates, transcripts or other documents for qualifications that you have already taken.
The only exception to this is if you already have a degree from a university – see the 'Other forms' section on this page.
We will contact you for evidence of your qualifications if you are offered a place at Oxford.
Read guidance from UCAS on filling in your application .
For most courses at Oxford you are required to take an admissions test test as part of your application.
Registration for tests is not automatic and is not part of the UCAS process.
If you are applying for a second undergraduate degree, please send a copy of the transcript from your first degree to the college that is considering your application, to arrive by 10 November.
No other references, transcripts, or certificates are required or accepted except for students applying for Graduate-entry Medicine (A101) or Choral or Organ Awards .
One section of the application is called your personal statement.
This is where you can write whatever you’d like to say about yourself and your motivation to study your course.
People sometimes think that there is a trick to writing a personal statement for Oxford, or that we are looking for some special secret formula, but this is not the case.
It’s important to remember that you can only write one personal statement and so the same wording will be seen by all the universities you apply to.
Your personal statement should therefore focus on the course you want to study, not the universities themselves.
Please read this helpful advice from UCAS .
Please also view UCAS’ guidance on the use of assistive technology (including artificial intelligence) when writing your personal statement.
As this is a piece of formal writing, and in line with UCAS' advice on using emojis , these should not be included.
For students applying to start university in 2026 or later, the UCAS personal statement consists of three questions.
The new detailed advice from UCAS explains what students should include in their answers and provides subject-specific personal statement guides to help you understand what admissions tutors are looking for.
The new format is designed to help students structure their personal statement more easily rather than to change the content.
The questions are designed to give you a starting point and to help you scaffold your answers.
Each answer will have a minimum character count of 350 characters, which is clearly labelled on the question boxes, along with an overall character counter, so you can keep track.
The 4000 overall character limit (including spaces) remains the same.
Provided that your academic referee can give us some background on the impact of COVID-19 on your education in their reference, you do not need to specifically refer to this in your personal statement.
If the pandemic has shaped how you think about your subject or offered you relevant opportunities to show your interest in your subject area, you can of course include this as part of your motivation for applying for the course.
Otherwise, follow the advice given below.
Universities build a picture of you as a student from all the different information you provide, to help decide whether or not to offer you a place.
The picture is made up of several different pieces:
For most courses at Oxford you will also need to take an admissions test or submit written work ( check the details for your course ).
If your application is shortlisted, your interview will also be taken into account.
This means that your personal statement is important but it’s not everything: it’s just one part of the overall picture.
Tutors at Oxford are only interested in your academic ability and potential.
They want to see that you are truly committed to the subject or subjects you want to study at university but it’s not enough just to say that you have a passion for something.
You need to show tutors how you have engaged with your subject, above and beyond whatever you have studied at school or college.
This can include any relevant extra-curricular activities.
Try to avoid writing your personal statement as though you are ticking things off a list.
There is no checklist of required achievements, and tutors will not just scan what you have written to look for key words or phrases.
Tutors will read your personal statement to try to understand what has motivated you to apply for their course.
It’s a good idea to evaluate your experiences, to show what you have learned from them and how they have helped develop your understanding of your subject.
Think about talking to your friends about what you want to study at university: what would you tell them?
What have you read or watched or seen that has inspired you?
(This might have been at school, at home, in a museum, on TV, in a book, on YouTube or a podcast or anywhere else.
You can also take a look at our suggested reading and resources .) Why was it interesting?
What do you want to find out next?
What did you do?
If you find this difficult, it might be time to think about whether or not you’ve really chosen the right course.
If you can’t think of anything that has inspired you, this lack of enthusiasm will probably come across in your personal statement, or it will become clear at interview, and you’re unlikely to gain a place at Oxford.
If you find it easy to answer these questions, you will have a long list of ideas to help you write your personal statement.
When you start to write, remember not just to list your achievements but show how they have affected you, how you have benefited, and what you’d like to learn next.
Be honest about yourself and what has inspired you, whether that’s been text books, museums and literature, or websites, podcasts and blogs.
Be sure to tell the truth, as tutors might check later, so don’t exaggerate and certainly don’t make any false claims.
Don’t hold back either – this is no time for modesty.
When you've written a first draft, have a look back at the selection criteria for your course and think about the evidence you've given for each of the criteria.
Have you covered everything?
We typically suggest that you focus around 80% of your personal statement on your academic interests, abilities and achievements.
This can include discussion of any relevant extra-curricular activities.
The remaining 20% can then cover any unrelated extra-curricular activities.
There’s a myth that Oxford is looking for the most well-rounded applicants, and that you will only be offered a place if you have a long list of varied extra-curricular activities.
In fact, extra-curricular activities are only helpful in so far as they demonstrate the selection criteria for your course.
If you are applying to other universities as well as to Oxford (you can make five choices on your UCAS form) then you may need to find out whether the other universities have different selection criteria.
If they do, then you might want to provide some information about your extra-curricular interests – but keep it to a minimum.
The space in your personal statement is limited, so think carefully about what you want to include.
We understand that not everyone has the opportunity to do work experience or to go travelling so these activities are not a requirement for any of our courses.
Tutors won’t be impressed by your connections, or the stamps in your passport, but they will be impressed by how you’ve engaged with your subject.
For example, some of our applicants for Medicine may have had work experience placements in prestigious hospitals but not be able to evaluate their time there.
If you have no more experience than some simple voluntary work, or even just discussing medical matters with your friends and family, you can still write an effective personal statement by reflecting critically on what you have learned and discussed.
To give another example, for the History of Art course, tutors will not want to hear about all the galleries and exhibitions that you have visited around the world if you cannot discuss the art that you saw.
You can come across more effectively in your personal statement by evaluating art you have seen, even if you’ve only seen it online or in books without ever leaving the school library.
Don’t be put off by any friends who you think have more impressive things to say in their personal statements.
Remember that tutors do not have a checklist of achievements that they are looking for: they want to see how you have engaged with your subject.
If you are thinking of applying for completely different courses at different universities (eg Physics and Accounting, or Biology and Music) we’d encourage you to reconsider.
It’s important to choose a subject area that you really want to study, and focus on that one area when making your applications.
Also, you can only write one personal statement which will be seen by all the universities to which you apply, so it needs to be relevant for all your courses.
If you are thinking of applying for related courses at different universities then we suggest that you avoid using course titles in your personal statement.
We recommend that you write about your interest in the general course themes, and how you have engaged with relevant subject areas, so that your personal statement is equally relevant for each of your course choices.
Students sometimes feel that they need to say something dramatic to stand out from the crowd and be really memorable in their personal statement but this is not true.
Applying to Oxford is not like a talent show where you may only have a few seconds to make an impression.
Tutors consider each application carefully on its individual merits, looking for evidence of your commitment and ability.
If you use your personal statement to demonstrate your academic abilities and your engagement with your subject(s), then your application will be memorable for all the right reasons.
Ask a teacher to read through what you’ve written, listen to their feedback and then make any updates that they suggest.
You may need two or three tries to get it right and it can take longer than you think, especially with the limited number of characters.
It can be tricky to get in everything you want to mention, but don't spend too much time trying to make your personal statement completely perfect - it's only one of the things that the tutors will consider.
As mentioned earlier on this page, the format of the personal statement has recently changed from one longer piece of text to three sections with question prompts.
Applications submitted in 2025 for 2026-entry courses (as well as those submitted in 2025 for deferred entry in 2027) will use the new personal statement format.
You can read more about the changes on the UCAS website .
A reference from a teacher or someone else who is qualified to comment on your academic ability is an essential part of your UCAS application.
Your application will be incomplete without a reference and we will not be able to consider it.
This is the section of the UCAS form where you list all your qualifications along with the grades you have already achieved and any standardised test scores.
Please list everything as the admissions tutors need to see the whole picture of your academic studies so far.
It doesn't matter if you have taken a lot of qualifications, a few, or none, we ask you to tell us about them.
You also need to list any educational qualifications you are currently working towards.
Students who are awaiting examination results or are yet to take examinations should enter 'pending' against these qualifications (including resits) when completing the Education section.
Pending qualifications will then be shown in the adviser portal and is where referees should record their predicted grades for these pending examinations.
Where applicable, this is an important part of the application, so make sure your referee is aware of this.
Using predicted grades means you can apply to study at Oxford before you have finished school (or equivalent) and you don't have to wait until all your exams are complete and your results are known.
These predictions help admissions tutors understand your academic potential and let them know if you are going to meet or exceed the entrance requirements for your chosen course.
If you are made an offer of a place, it will be conditional on your achieving the required grades (based on the entrance requirements for your course) in any outstanding exams.
We appreciate that many educational systems around the world do not usually predict a student's grades in this way; however without these predictions from your teacher we are unable to consider your application.
There’s lots of advice for teachers in the teachers’ section of our website and from UCAS about writing references and predicting grades .
If you have listed any exams or qualifications as not yet taken on your UCAS form, then your teacher must provide predicted grades for them.
If you can't get predicted grades, then your only alternative is to wait until you have got the final results for all your exams and qualifications before applying to Oxford.
Please remember that you can only apply to Oxford between early September and 15 October.
If you are not a native English speaker, please also include any English language qualifications that you have taken or are due to take.
Our English language requirements page lists which tests we accept and also explains possible exemptions.
It will need to be clear from your application that you are on track to achieve the admission requirements for your course .
Please visit our international qualifications page for the international qualifications we accept and the level of academic attainment we would require.
For any exams you are yet to take, you will need to ask your referee (normally the teacher supporting your application) to predict your results and submit these as part of your UCAS application.
Please refer your referee to our advice on writing references and predicting grades .
You may choose to declare the results of any individual modules or internal exams in the 'Education' section of your UCAS application, but this is not essential.
You may instead like to ask your academic referee to mention the results of any internal school exams in the reference, if you feel that these results will help to demonstrate your academic ability and potential.
Please visit the UCAS website for further advice on how to enter your qualifications on the UCAS form.
Note: do not send us transcripts for the qualifications you've already taken ; you will only need to produce certificates or transcripts if you are offered a place here.
However, if you are applying for a second undergraduate degree, you will need to send a transcript from your first degree separately, to the college that is considering your application.
You do not upload this as part of your UCAS form.
If you have personal circumstances that you'd like to tell us about please include them in your personal statement, or ask your teacher to include the information in your reference.
If for any reason this is not appropriate, then please wait until you have had confirmation that your application has been received by a college and then contact them directly .
You can contact our Admissions Office for further information and advice if you're not sure what to include.
If you are applying for Medicine, please read the Medical School's guidance on submitting information about extenuating circumstances .
Usually special circumstances are something that you as an individual have experienced, something that is unique to you.
So we would not, for example, expect you to let us know about your school being closed due to COVID-19.
We are extremely aware of the widespread disruption to education during the pandemic and will be asking your academic referee to tell us how this has affected your year group.
Please visit the tab Declaring your disability and read our Guidance for disabled applicants to find out about the support we offer our students.
We are sympathetic to the fact that sometimes candidates under-perform at school or college because of extenuating circumstances.
If you feel that your performance has been affected in this way please let us know.
You should let us have this information in your UCAS application as we need to receive this information before admissions decisions have been made.
Information received after admissions decisions have been made will only be considered in exceptional circumstances and if this was not available earlier.
Examples would include disruption caused by change of school or system, severe discontinuity of teachers (but not if this was due to nationwide school closures due to COVID-19), bereavement, and debilitating illness.
We take care to treat each application individually and would always take such mitigating circumstances into account, if they are brought to our attention before admissions decisions have been made.
You could include this information in your personal statement or your teacher could mention this in their reference.
If for any reason this is not possible, then we would advise you to contact the college you applied to (or are assigned to if making an open application) once you have had confirmation that your application has been received.
Teachers and other academic referees should follow the guidance provided by UCAS in order to explain the impact of COVID-19 on your education.
Whatever your particular circumstances, the earlier we know about your individual requirements, then the sooner we can begin to meet them.
We are committed to making sure that all our students can benefit from the great opportunities at Oxford so please do tell us about any disability, whether seen or unseen, on your UCAS application.
This should include:
Please be assured that admissions decisions are made on academic grounds alone.
Around 30% of all our undergraduate students are known to the Disability Advisory Service.
By telling us now, you will help us put in place any agreed support early and to make reasonable adjustments to facilitate your access to your course and our University.
It will also mean that we can provide appropriate arrangements during the admissions process, so for any test or interview.
While you do not need to include this information at this stage, we strongly recommend you do so in order to give us time to prepare and arrange suitable support.
You’ll find the relevant section at the bottom of the Personal Details tab of your UCAS application
See also our further Guidance for disabled applicants .
This includes information on contacting our Disability Advisory Service and how to put in place any necessary arrangements for our admissions tests, if this is one of the admission requirements for your chosen course.
The application process for international students is exactly the same as for UK and EU students: i.e.
you must apply through UCAS by 15 October.
UCAS is an independent organisation that handles all applications to study undergraduate degrees in the UK.
To complete a UCAS application, you will need to register with UCAS and pay them a fee.
The UCAS website also has guidance for international students.
There is no separate application form for Oxford's undergraduate courses (with the single exception of A101 Graduate Entry Medicine ), and it is not possible to apply without completing a UCAS form.
FAQs- Application process

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/applying-to-oxford/guide/admissions-tests:
Tests form one part of Oxford's admissions process and are used alongside a range of information to help assess candidate’s academic potential and suitability for many of our courses.
All Oxford admissions tests will be online, taken using a computer and delivered in partnership with Pearson VUE via its established network of test centres.
If you are applying for one of our Law courses, please follow our LNAT guidance.
If you are applying for Medicine or Graduate Entry Medicine, please follow our UCAT guidance.
This year’s tests will take place as follows:
AHCAAT – Friday 24 October
BMSAT – Tuesday 21 October, Wednesday 22 October, Thursday 23 October, Friday 24 October and Monday 27 October
CAT – Wednesday 22 October, Thursday 23 October and Friday 24 October
MAT – Wednesday 22 October and Thursday 23 October
MLAT – Friday 24 October
PAT – Wednesday 22 October and Thursday 23 October
PhilAT – Friday 24 October
TSA – Tuesday 21 October, Wednesday 22 October, Thursday 23 October, Friday 24 October and Monday 27 October
HAT – In 2025, candidates applying for any course with History do not need to take a History admissions test.
Full guidance for candidates on how to register and book your test including how to request access arrangements is available via the individual test pages below
Also for Engineering Science and Materials Science
For Philosophy and Theology only.
Candidates for Philosophy and Modern Languages take this test but as part of the MLAT so should register for that instead.
Admissions test policy on access arrangements
Admissions test policy on requesting special consideration
Admissions test policy on UCAS ID
Pearson VUE
AHCAAT BMSAT CAT HAT (not running in 2025) MAT MLAT PAT PhilAT TSA
LNAT
UCAT

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/applying-to-oxford/guide/written-work:
Many of our courses require applicants to send in a sample of their written work as part of their application.
The tabs on this page will give you more details of what you need to send (if anything), how to send it, and the deadlines by which the work must be received.
The deadline for submitting written work is 10 November .
Please note that the deadline for submitting Fine Art portfolios is earlier.
If the course requires you to submit written work as part of your application and you are worried that you don’t have a suitable piece of work to submit, please contact the college you are applying to (or the college you are allocated to after you apply) to discuss what your options are.
Please read the information on each tab on this page carefully.
Please remember that most courses require you to complete an admissions test or tests, so make sure to check our ' Admissions tests' page as well.
If the course you are applying for requires written work please send work that demonstrates your analytical, reasoning, language and writing skills, as appropriate for your chosen degree course.
The written work may well form a springboard for discussion at your interview should you be shortlisted, so make sure to keep a copy for your own reference.
Does the course you are applying for require you to send in written work?
This list will show you whether your course requires you to send in written work, but you must check the 'How to Apply' tab on each course page to view more details of what the course tutors want you to send.
Yes.
View Archaeology and Anthropology for details of what you need to send.
Visit Asian and Middle Eastern Studies for details of what you need to send.
None required.
View Classical Archaeology and Ancient History for details of what you need to send.
Visit Classics and Asian and Middle Eastern Studies for details of what you need to send.
View Classics for details of what you need to send.
View Classics and English for details of what you need to send.
View Classics and Modern Languages for details of what you need to send.
View English and Modern Languages for details of what you need to send.
View English Language and Literature for details of what you need to send.
Yes, you must submit a portfolio.
View Fine Art for details of what to send and the Ruskin School of Art website for information on how to submit your portfolio.
View History for details of what you need to send.
View History (Ancient and Modern) for details of what you need to send.
View History and Economics for details of what you need to send.
View History and English for details of what you need to send.
View History and Modern Languages for details of what you need to send.
View History and Politics for details of what you need to send.
View History of Art for details of what you need to send.
View Music for details.
View Philosophy and Theology for details of what you need to send.
View Religion and Asian and Middle Eastern Studies for details of what you need to send.
View Theology and Religion for details of what you need to send.
The work you send in must be original and ideally have been produced during the course of your school or college work, marked by a teacher and not re-written or corrected in any way.
Please make sure to include details about the circumstances under which your work was produced on the cover sheet provided.
Tell us under what conditions you wrote the essay, with what help, and in what timeframe.
Tutors will take that information into account.
If you are a mature applicant you can decide (but it is not necessary) to produce a new piece of work, as you may want to give a clearer reflection of your current abilities.
Again, we understand that this means it may not be possible to have it marked.
Please use the space on the form to describe the circumstances in which the work was produced.
It may be typed or handwritten – as long as it is legible – and photocopies are acceptable.
We would expect each piece of written work to be no more than 2,000 words.
You will need to complete a written work cover sheet for each piece of work that you submit.
Extended essays for the International Baccalaureate, Extended Project Qualification (EPQ), or other pieces of work which exceed the 2,000 word limit are not acceptable as submitted written work.
However, you may like to submit an extract from an extended essay.
Also, if you mention your essay in your personal statement, tutors may like to discuss this with you at interview if your application is shortlisted.
All written work must be in English (except where required for Modern Languages ).
If your work is in another language please submit both the original work and your own translation into English.
After you have submitted your UCAS application (and usually before the end of October), the college considering your application will get in touch to tell you how to submit your written work.
These instructions will include:
In addition to those specific instructions, please remember that:
If your application is shortlisted, we recommend that you re-read your written work before your interview, as tutors may ask you about it.
Written work must be submitted to arrive at the college no later than 10 November .
Fine Art portfolios have an earlier deadline.
Please contact the college that is considering your application if you are not sure what to send, or if you are concerned that you do not have suitable written work.
WRITTEN WORK COVER SHEET:
Download the cover sheet.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/applying-to-oxford/guide/interviews:
Interviews in 2025 for 2026-entry will be held online.
All applicants will receive a letter or email indicating whether or not they have been invited for interview, usually between the middle of November and early December.
There are lots of myths about interviews at Oxford, but really they're just conversations about your chosen subject - like a short tutorial - with someone who knows a lot about it.
Interviews are tailored to individual candidates.
While questions may sometimes be the same or similar, the direction of the conversation during the interview will depend on a a candidate's responses.
In some subjects, questions may pick up on other aspects of a candidate's application, such as their UCAS personal statement or submitted written work.
Interviews are designed to test mental agility, the ability to think independently and to engage with new ideas beyond the scope of your school or college syllabus.
A good deal of the teaching at Oxford takes place in small classes or tutorials, and your interviewers – who may be your future tutors – are assessing your ability to study, think and learn in this way.
The interview is designed to assess your academic potential.
Tutors are looking for your self-motivation and enthusiasm for your subject.
Decisions are not based on your manners, appearance or background, but on your ability to think independently and to engage with new ideas beyond the scope of your school or college syllabus.
Oxford typically receives over 23,000 applications for around 3,300 places every year and shortlists approximately 10,000 candidates.
With so many more applications than places, it just isn’t possible to interview everyone.
Tutors shortlist the candidates they feel have the strongest potential and meet their selection criteria best.
Only those shortlisted are invited to interview.
If you do not get shortlisted for interview, unfortunately that means that your application has not been successful.
If you are shortlisted for interview - congratulations!
Being invited to attend our interviews is a fantastic achievement in its own right, considering the number of strongly competitive applications that we receive each year.
You will receive a letter or an email indicating whether or not you have been invited for interview, usually between the middle of November and early December.
Different courses will issue invitations on different days depending on when their interviews are scheduled.
Your email or letter will usually come from the college you applied to.
If you submitted an open application, it will come from the college you have been allocated to.
Sometimes you might get invited to interview by a college you did not apply to.
This is part of our reallocation process, where applicants get moved around to make sure everyone interviewed has a similar chance of being made an offer.
Please be aware that you may only be given a week’s notice that you have been shortlisted.
The interview timetable is available to view.
All interviews are expected to take place in early to mid-December so please make sure you are going to be available during this time as interviews cannot be rearranged.
The interview timetable is available to view.
You are quite likely to have more than one interview.
You might also be interviewed by more than one college.
In some subjects, you will be invited to interviews at more than one college before your interviews start.
In other subjects, you might have 'initial' interviews at your first college and then be invited to an 'additional' interview at another college after these have taken place.
We aim to give everyone a minimum of 24 hours' notice of these additional interviews.
Online interviews should take place where applicants feel able to perform at their best.
This should be somewhere you have reliable access to the required technology (details to follow) and a quiet space, free from distraction.
We hope that this will be either in your school or college, or your home or similar environment.
As soon as you receive your invitation to interview/s we suggest that you discuss with your school or college where you would like this/these to take place and to make arrangements accordingly.
Some applicants may benefit from enhanced school or college support, including those with special requirements as a result of a disability or those who have difficulty accessing the appropriate technology or a stable internet connection.
We would be very grateful if schools and colleges could support applicants in these circumstances.
You will be interviewed by academic tutors, usually from a college.
They teach and research at the University and decide who studies here.
Normally you will be interviewed by two tutors, occasionally more.
If you are applying for a joint course, with two or more subjects, you should expect to be interviewed by tutors representing each of the subjects.
For some joint courses you may be interviewed separately for each subject area.
Tutors will understand that you may be nervous and will try to put you at your ease.
They want you to feel able to be yourself in the interview, and to allow you to demonstrate your skills and abilities.
They will probably ask you a few simple questions to begin with: perhaps about something in your personal statement or why you have applied for a particular course.
They will then move on to questions about your subject.
Depending on what is relevant for the course you are applying for, you may be given a text, a poem, a graph, or an object, and then asked to answer questions and comment on it.
You may be given these before the interview, and will be advised if there is anything in particular on which you need to focus.
Tutors may also refer to any written work that you were asked to submit.
Questions may be about the subjects that you are currently studying at school or college.
However, you will also be offered opportunities to show whether you have read around the subject and to demonstrate your knowledge and interest beyond your school or college syllabus.
Go to the demonstration interview videos and sample interview questions tabs on this page for more of an idea of what to expect.
There may well be more than one right way to answer a question in which case tutors will be more interested in exploring your thought process.
Remember they are trying to find out how you think, so anything you say will interest them.
Many questions are designed to test your ability to apply logic and reason to an idea you may never have encountered before.
If you think you don’t know the answer to a question, don’t panic, but try and apply your mind to it – you may surprise yourself!
You may also wish to explain that you haven’t covered that topic yet, but the key thing is to appear interested.
Don’t play it cool because you’re nervous.
Tutors love their subject and they want to teach people who feel likewise.
Sometimes tutors may suggest an alternative way of looking at a problem.
They are looking for evidence that you are willing to engage with new ideas, and that you can be flexible in your thinking.
Often your answers will lead to a discussion and students sometimes feel they learn a lot in interviews – despite their nerves.
Interviewers are not trying to make you feel ignorant or catch you out, but to stretch you in order to assess your potential.
Top tip: don’t try and second guess what tutors are looking for – just be yourself.
Tutors may ask you about extra-curricular activities which you have mentioned in your personal statement, particularly to help you settle into the interview.
However extra-curricular activities will not be assessed unless they help to demonstrate how you meet the selection criteria for your course.
Please don’t feel as though you must ask a question.
If you are given the chance to ask your own questions at the end of the interview, this does not form any part of your assessment.
If there are any adjustments you need because of a disability, make sure that the college which has invited you to interview knows about these as soon as possible.
Please read the interviews section of our Guidance for disabled applicants page for more advice.
If you are ill prior to or during your interview please follow the guidance for interview candidates who are taken ill .
If there are other extenuating circumstances that you feel affected your interview performance you should let the college know as soon as possible, either before your interview takes place, or as soon as possible afterwards.
It will not be possible to take into account circumstances that were not declared prior to admissions decisions being made.
Download the full transcript of the podcast.
Please note that although some of the information and experiences explained in the podcast are assuming interviews will be face to face and take place in Oxford, there is a lot which is relevant for online interviews as well.
We understand that it can be difficult to know what to expect from Oxford interviews or how to prepare, particularly if you or your teachers don't know anyone who has been shortlisted before.
The following guidance aims to cover what we would like all shortlisted candidates to know.
After reading this and exploring the available resources, we hope you can feel prepared and able to demonstrate your academic ability and potential.
Once you are clear on the practicalities and arrangements for your interview, we recommend you begin to think about the content of the interview itself, the sort of questions you might be asked and what you would like tutors to know about how and what you think about your subject.
You should also think about any revision you might need to do.
Our top tip is to practise speaking about your subject and your thoughts about what you've seen or read - these don't have to be formal 'mock interviews' - instead they could be chats with teachers, friends, or family.
If you aren't able to speak to other people, why not record a vlog to practise speaking, or hold an imaginary interview in your head, or even talk to the cat!
Whilst watching our demonstration interview videos, stop and start as many times as you like, so you can think about what your own answers might have been.
It will all help you on the day.
A timetable for online interviews in 2025 for candidates applying for 2026-entry (or deferred entry in 2027) will be available later in the year.
In the meantime, you can view the timetable for online interviews which took place in December 2024 .
For the past few years, interviews have taken place online using Microsoft Teams.
Technology requirements have been divided into three tiers, with tier 1 involving the least technology and tier 3 requiring the most.
Most courses are in tier 1 where you will only need a computer for video conferencing using Microsoft Teams.
Note: Whatever technology you are using, you must ensure that any automatic transcription tools you may have enabled in Microsoft Teams are disabled during your interviews.
Note : In some cases, using Teams while logged into a school account, or whilst on a school network, might mean the use of a webcam or video feed is blocked.
It is important that we are able to see you during the interview, as therefore it may be necessary for you and/or your school to ensure there is a workaround in place so that you can use a webcam.
For example, if taking the interview at home, instead of using your school account, you can join the call anonymously using a browser.
Interviews for some subjects are likely to require the use of a shared virtual whiteboard and in other, more mathematical subjects, a separate touchscreen device will be needed for the whiteboard along with a basic universal stylus so you can share mathematical notation, draw sketches, annotate diagrams or text, or add text.
No candidate or their school will be expected to purchase a touchscreen device in order to participate in their Oxford interviews.
Where necessary, for tier 3 subjects and where there are more technology requirements, colleges will discuss arrangements with schools and applicants in order to find a practical solution for everyone involved.
You may be invited to more than one interview.
For each one you will be sent a separate Microsoft Teams calendar invitation, which you will need to accept by clicking ‘Accept’, ‘Yes’ or equivalent (depending on your email client).
By clicking on the link contained within the invitation you will enter a virtual interview lobby and interviewers will then ‘admit’ you to your interview.
Your invitation will also include all other information you need to be aware of in advance of your interview.
Read our detailed guidance on how to connect to Microsoft Teams for your online interview.
In some cases, interviews are expected to take place in schools, and so you and your school will need to check that you have access to the required technology listed on this page.
Please note that, in a small number of cases, you might be invited to an interview that uses a lower technology tier than the one listed in this section (for instance, you may not require Tier 3 technology for a Philosophy interview if applying for Mathematics and Philosophy).
This will be explained to you in your invitation to interview.
We recommend that, for all tiers of interviews, you (and your school, if applicable) test your technology setup in advance of interviews.
Video conferencing only
A computer, with a microphone, speakers and a webcam with access to Microsoft Teams as the video conferencing tool, either installed in advance or via an internet browser.
You do not need to have a Microsoft account in order to use Microsoft Teams for this purpose.
You should also have the following:
Other than Microsoft Teams, you do not need any additional hardware or software for interviews in this tier.
During the interview your interviewers may wish to show you a document by sharing their screen or to hold something up to the camera for you to see.
Likewise, you may be asked to display rough working using your computer’s own camera.
Video conferencing and interactive virtual whiteboard
You will need a computer, with a microphone, speakers and a webcam with access to Microsoft Teams as the video conferencing tool, either installed in advance or via an internet browser.
For interviews in this tier, you will also need access to an online virtual whiteboard via the website or app, Miro , on the same device on which you are accessing Microsoft Teams.
We recommend that you create a Miro account prior to your interview to practise using a whiteboard – this is free to do.
When you create an account, you will need to give your email address and create a password.
This triggers a 6-digit access code which is sent to your email address.
You will be asked during registration to give your company name and role but here you can instead just enter your full name and when asked for your role, click on the option 'Not company-related'.
Either before your interview or at the start of your interview, you will receive a link by email to a Miro whiteboard from the Oxford college running your interview.
You will need to follow this link, which will open the whiteboard either in your browser or in the Miro app.
During the interview, your interviewers may wish to show you a document by sharing their screen, by pasting it into the Miro whiteboard, or by holding something up to the camera for you to see.
Likewise, you might be asked to display any rough working using your computer’s own camera.
Further, the interviewers may use the Miro whiteboard to write out mathematical notation, draw sketches, annotate diagrams or text, or to add text.
You may be asked to do the following using Miro:
Read our additional guidance for those needing to register with Miro and using Miro in tier 2 interviews.
Video conferencing, Interactive Virtual Whiteboard and Natural Handwriting Capture via a basic universal stylus.
You will also need a touchscreen device and basic universal stylus so you can access and write on a Miro whiteboard.
It is possible that if the computer used to access Teams is touchscreen, no separate touchscreen device will be needed and the Miro whiteboard can be run on this at the same time.
See the note under technology required on this page for further details.
For interviews in this tier, in addition to the device on which you are accessing Microsoft Teams, you will also need a basic universal stylus and a touchscreen device for accessing a Miro Whiteboard .
This can be a tablet, or a touchscreen laptop/Chromebook and should have a screen at least 8 inches in size, so a mobile phone is not likely to be suitable.
Note: Candidates with tier 3 requirements for their interviews may not need a second screen if the computer that they will be using for the video call has a touchscreen of at least 11” (28cm).
The computer will need to be able to run Teams and Miro in separate windows (tablets using App versions may not allow this functionality).
Any universal (capacitive) basic stylus will allow candidates to work collaboratively on the Miro whiteboard.
The stylus does not need to be a ‘smart’ or ‘active’ stylus like an Apple Pencil.
The Teams window may be reduced during collaborative use of Miro to allow sufficient space for whiteboard workings.
Create a Miro account so you can practise using a white board before your interview – this is free to do.
Either before your interview or at the start of your interview, you will receive a link by email to a Miro whiteboard from the college running your interview.
You will need to be able to access this link on your touchscreen device in order to access the whiteboard you will use in your interview, so you should login to your email account on this device before your interview starts.
Interviewers may wish to show you a document by sharing their screen, by pasting it into the Miro whiteboard, or by holding something up to the camera for you to see.
In addition, the interviewers may use the Miro whiteboard to write out mathematical notation, draw sketches, annotate diagrams or text, or to add text.
You may be asked to do the following using Miro on your touchscreen device and a stylus:
Please don’t worry.
We know that these things can sometimes be a problem, and your interviewers will understand.
We do recommend that you - and your school if that’s where you’re having your interview - test the technology beforehand, to make sure it works and that you’re comfortable with it.
Remember your interviewers will want you to do well, and be able to see your potential.
If the technology goes wrong or the connection is bad, make sure you tell your interviewers so that they are aware.
If the interview can’t proceed then don’t worry - the college will rearrange it as soon as they can.
Required for:
">Video of Tier 1 interviews
Download the full transcript of the Tier 1 video.
">Video of Tier 2 interviews
Download the full transcript of the Tier 2 video.
">Video of Tier 3 interviews 1
Download the full transcript of the Tier 3 video.
These sample interview questions come direct from the tutors who conduct the interviews.
We hope they'll make you think, and help you understand why we ask the questions that we do.
Interviewer: Alison Salvesen, Mansfield College.
Can archaeology ‘prove’ or ‘disprove’ the Bible?
Candidates in my subject come from a wide variety of backgrounds and qualifications, so we generally try to tailor the interview questions to the individual according to what they have on the UCAS form or wrote about in their submitted work, in order to find out whether they have a genuine interest in the subject area and an aptitude for the course.
For this particular question I would be looking for an answer that showed the candidate could appreciate that the Bible was a collection of documents written and transmitted over several centuries, and containing important traditions that have a bearing on history, but that academic study of the Bible means that it has to be examined carefully to see when and where these traditions had come from and for what purpose they had been written.
Whereas they should recognise that archaeology relies on non-literary sources preserved from ancient periods such as the remains of buildings and tools.
These can often be dated by scientific means (and so appear more objective than literature), but we still frequently need additional information such as inscriptions or evidence from other similar sites in order to make sense of the ancient remains.
In the end I would hope the candidate would work towards a realisation of the very different nature of these types of evidence, which sometimes gives a complementary picture, while in others it may be contradictory.
Both require very careful interpretation, and just arguing that ‘The Bible says’ or that ‘Archaeology proves’ is much too simplistic.
(The same kind of thing applies to archaeology, the Quran, and non-Islamic historical sources for a study of the early Arab conquests.)
Interviewer: Kathryn Scott, Christ Church
Would you expect this compound to be more soluble in octanol or water?
(The student will be shown the structure of an organic compound with functional groups that they will be familiar with from A-level/IB studies).
We do not expect the student to know the answer to this question straight away, and in fact getting the correct answer isn’t important here.
It is more useful for us to see how the candidate applies their chemical knowledge to a problem they are unlikely to have considered before, how they justify their conclusions and whether they are capable of considering alternative possibilities.
If a student struggles with a starting point we would prompt them to describe more generally the different kinds of interactions that hold molecules together and to comment on their relative strength.
We would then encourage them to think about what interactions the specific compound might make first with octanol and then with water.
A good approach to answering the question would be to first consider the individual functional groups separately and then to discuss the compound as a whole.
The extension to this question asks the student to interpret some graphical data and requires a more technical introduction.
We are careful at this point to make sure that the student has understood the explanation before moving forward with the question.
The relative solubility of a compound in octanol vs aqueous solution can be determined by putting a sample of the compound in a 1:1 mixture of octanol and aqueous solution and then measuring the concentration of the compound that has dissolved in each of the solvents.
For one particular compound the relative solubility varies with pH as shown in the following graph.
Can you interpret this graph?
We would clarify the compound discussed here is different to the one in the first part of the question and that ‘aqueous solution’ means water with acid or base added to control the pH.
The aim of this question is to see whether the student can understand a new concept and apply it to a problem.
One approach to this question is to first consider the flat regions of the graph.
Between pH 0 and 4 the compound has a relative solubility very close 4.
The student can use the equation to work out that this corresponds to much more of the compound dissolving in octanol than in water.
In contrast, between pH 9 and 14 the relative solubility of approximately zero corresponds to almost equal concentrations of the compound dissolving in octanol and water.
The student then needs to consider how the structure of a compound might change as pH is varied.
If they struggle at this point we might give a specific prompt, for example, 'What form would you expect a water molecule to be found in at low pH?'.
Ultimately the prompts lead to the idea that the charge of a compound can change with pH due to gain or loss of hydrogen ions.
The graph shown here corresponds to a compound where the vast majority of the molecules are neutrally charged between pH 0 and 4.
As the pH is raised a greater proportion of the molecules will lose a hydrogen ion to become negatively charged, being charged reduces the solubility in octanol and so the relative solubility decreases.
The plateau region above pH 9 occurs because almost all of molecules have lost the hydrogen ion by this point.
Although the compound becomes negatively charged, it does not become more soluble in water than octanol, this suggests that the compound also includes functional groups that interact well with octanol, such as alkyl chains or rings.
It is important to note that a student would not have to make all of these points to do well in the interview.
Interviewer: Owen Lewis, Brasenose College.
Why do some habitats support higher biodiversity than others?
This question encourages students to think about what high-diversity habitats such as rainforests and coral reefs have in common.
In many cases, patterns or correlations can help us to identify the underlying mechanisms.
For example, a student might point out that both rainforests and coral reefs are found in hot countries and near the equator.
The best answers will attempt to unravel exactly what it is about being hot or near the equator that might allow numerous types of plant and animal to arise, persist and coexist.
Do new species evolve more frequently there, or go extinct less frequently?
Once students have come up with a plausible theory, I'd follow up by asking them how they would go about testing their idea.
What sort of data would they need?
Interviewer: Martin Speight, St Anne's College.
Why do many animals have stripes?
The main aim of the question is to get applicants to think about biological topics and put them in the context of successful adaptations to life on Earth.
So I might expect students to start by thinking of some stripy animals, then move on to thinking about categories of striped animals – for example those that are dangerous (such as wasps, tigers, and snakes), those that have stripes for camouflage (such as zebras but also tigers), and those whose stripes are harmless mimics of dangerous ones.
They might think of specific examples for detailed comparison: tigers and zebras for example both have stripes for camouflage and blending in with background, one to hide from prey and the other to hide from predators.
Other things that would be worth considering include whether stripes may only occur in the young of a species; whether the colour of the stripes matters rather than just the contrasting stripe pattern, and why do stripe size, shape, width and pattern vary in different species.
There are no right or wrong specific answers to the questions – I'm just interested in candidates' speculations about the advantages of having stripes.
Here's a cactus.
Tell me about it.
We wouldn't actually phrase the question this way – we give the student a cactus in a pot and a close-up photo of the cactus's surface structure and ask them to describe the object in as much detail as possible using the plant and the photo.
We are looking for observation, attention to detail, both at the large and micro scale.
We ask them to account for what they see – this means they don't have to use memory or knowledge about cacti (even if they have it) but to deduce the uses and functions of the shapes, sizes, structures that they have just described.
So for example, why be fat and bulbous, why have large sharp spines, surrounded by lots of very small hair-like spines?
Why does it have small cacti budding off the main body?
There will frequently be more than one logical answer to these questions, and we are likely to follow one answer with another question – for example:
‘The big spines are to stop the cactus being eaten, yes, but by what sort of animals?' We would also bring in more general questions at the end of the cactus discussion, such as what are the problems faced by plants and animals living in very dry habitats such as deserts.
If you could save either the rainforests or the coral reefs, which would you choose?
I'd expect students to be able to use their general knowledge plus their common sense to come up with an answer – no detailed knowledge is required.
Students might then be asked about the importance of natural features, such as biodiversity and rare species, and human interests, such as the fuel and food, ecotourism and medicines we get from rainforests or reefs.
Finally there are impacts to consider from climate change, soil erosion, pollution, logging, biofuel replacement, overfishing, etc.
The final answer doesn't matter – both reefs and rainforests must be managed sustainably to balance conservation and human needs.
Is it easier for organisms to live in the sea or on land?
Firstly candidates should define 'easier' – does it mean less complexity, less energy expenditure, less highly evolved, less likely to be eaten etc?
Then candidates could think of problems caused by living in the sea, such as high salinity, high pressure, lack of light etc.
Problems living on land include extra support for the body, avoiding desiccation, the need for more complex locomotory systems (legs, wings etc) and hence better sensory and nervous systems etc.
Then ask in which of the two ecosystems have animals and plants been more successful?
So now they have to define 'successful'...
Why do lions have manes?
Some of the best interview questions do not have a 'right' or a 'wrong' answer, and can potentially lead off in all sorts of different directions.
Applicants might have picked up ideas about the function of a lion's mane from independent reading or from watching natural history documentaries.
That's fine – but I'd follow up their response by asking how they would test their theory.
When I've used this question in interviews I've had all sorts of innovative suggestions, including experiments where lions have their manes shaved to investigate whether this influences their chances with the opposite sex or helps them win fights over territory.
Ladybirds are red.
So are strawberries.
Why?
Many Biology tutors use plant or animal specimens – often alive – as a starting point for questions and discussion, so applicants shouldn't be surprised if they are asked to inspect and discuss an insect or a fruit.
Red can signal either 'don't eat me' or 'eat me' to consumers.
I'm interested in seeing how applicants attempt to resolve this apparent paradox.
Would it matter if tigers became extinct?
This question is not about hoping students will display their expert knowledge of tigers.
Most applicants would instinctively answer 'Yes...', but it is the 'because....' that interests me, and can help to distinguish critical thinkers.
I might follow up this question by asking if it would matter if less glamorous creatures – like fungi – went extinct.
Interviewer: Robert Wilkins, St Edmund Hall
Why is sugar in your urine a good indicator that you might have diabetes?
This question builds on general knowledge and material studied at school in biology and chemistry to assess how students approach a clinically-relevant problem.
It’s commonly known that diabetes is associated with sugar (glucose) in the urine; this question asks students to think about why this occurs.
Students have usually have learnt that the kidneys filter blood to remove waste products, such as urea, that must be eliminated from the body but many other useful substances which must not be lost – including glucose – are also filtered.
Given that glucose is not normally found in the urine, students are asked to speculate as to how it can all be recovered as the urine passes through the kidney’s tubules.
The process involves reabsorption by a carrier protein that binds the glucose molecules and moves them out of the renal tubule and back into the blood.
Students should appreciate that, in binding glucose, the carrier will share properties with enzymes, about which they will have learned at school: the capacity to reabsorb glucose is finite because once all of the carriers are working maximally, no further glucose reabsorption can occur.
A successful applicant will make the connection that an elevated level of glucose in the blood in diabetes leads to increased filtration of glucose by the kidneys and saturation of the carriers that perform the reabsorption, resulting in ‘overspill’ of glucose in the urine.
Interviewer: Jan Schnupp, St Peter's College.
Why do a cat's eyes appear to 'glow' in the dark?
This question builds on commonly held knowledge and on material covered in Biology at school about visual processes.
The question assesses criteria such as scientific curiosity (has the applicant ever wondered this themselves?
Have they formulated any theories?) and scientific reasoning, based on information provided by the interviewer as the interview progresses.
After establishing that the applicant understands that light is detected by photoreceptors in the eye (and exploring and explaining this concept if it is a new one), the discussion would consider how the glow might be advantageous to the cat, seeing whether the applicant can appreciate that it may help the animal to see in the dark.
Possible explanations for the glow would be discussed with an expectation that applicants might recognise that the light could be generated within the eye or alternatively that light entering the eye is in some way reflected back out.
Having established the second possibility as more being more plausible, the interviewer would probe to see whether the candidate recognises the significance of giving photoreceptors two chances to capture light as rays pass into and then out of the eye and why at night this might enhance vision.
Interviewer: Martin Galpin, University College.
How many different molecules can be made from six carbon atoms and twelve hydrogen atoms?
This question gives candidates an opportunity to demonstrate a wide understanding of chemistry and there is no simple, immediate answer.
Most candidates would start by drawing some molecules to construct some that satisfy the requirement of six carbons and twelve hydrogens.
If the candidate gets stuck, the interviewer may ask them to explain how many bonds they’d expect each carbon and each hydrogen to form.
This part of the interview tests candidates’ familiarity with different kinds of molecules, their ability to visualise molecules in three dimensions and then draw them, and their ability to decide if two differently-drawn molecules are actually equivalent.
During this process, the interviewer would also be looking at how well the candidate responds to prompting.
After a few minutes, the interviewer may use the question to move the discussion toward concepts such as chirality, cis-trans isomerism, ring strain, and isotope effects.
Candidates may not have heard of these before, which is fine and to be expected; the interviewer wants to see how quickly the candidate picks up new concepts and whether they can offer plausible explanations for them.
The interviewer might finish the discussion with a rather more difficult question, such as ‘is a molecule only stable if all the carbons form four bonds?’, thus challenging what is taught at school and getting the candidate to think critically about the nature of a chemical bond.
Interviewer: Gail Trimble, Trinity College.
Why do you think Dido kills herself in Aeneid 4 ?
Couldn’t she just have gone back to her old life?
I would never ask a question like this without the student mentioning the text first, as we don’t assume that all applicants will have read the same things.
Many candidates have never studied Latin or Greek before at all, so we certainly wouldn’t assume that they had any particular knowledge.
I would open this part of the interview by asking the applicant to choose a Classical text that they have enjoyed.
This could be something they have read at school/college or on their own, in the original or in translation – it just needs to be something that they found interesting and that they would be happy to discuss.
A good answer to this question about Aeneid 4 might point out that the work contains hints that Dido’s sister and the people she rules will be devastated by her death: she actually has a lot to live for.
The answer might look for things Dido says that suggest she’s killing herself because she has lost her self-respect, and perhaps ask whether this rather obsessive focus on self-respect is a typical characteristic of ancient heroes.
Other typical questions might be about why so much of the Odyssey is about Odysseus’ return to Ithaca, rather than the adventures at sea that everyone remembers, or whether Achilles or Hector is the real hero of the Iliad ?
It really depends on what the applicant says they have read.
We’re looking for candidates to be able to pick out details in the text that support the argument they want to make - and opposing arguments, too.
The questions allow us to see whether candidates are open-minded and able to see how others, both today and, crucially, in the ancient world, might put the evidence from the texts together to draw different conclusions.
And we would hope that candidates would think about how, although literary texts often encourage us to react to their characters as if they were real people, actually these characters are constructed by an author, and what we see of them always reflects that author’s choices.
Interviewer: Brian Harrington, Keble College.
How do pirates divide their treasure?
A group of 7 pirates has 100 gold coins.
They have to decide amongst themselves how to divide the treasure, but must abide by pirate rules:
So, what division should the most senior pirate suggest to the other six?
This is a standard logic problem and is a good example of the type of question that could be asked.
I like to see how students can take directions, and if they can break problems into smaller subsets, and work through a complex concept applying a solution in an algorithmic way.
If students have any questions, I want them to ask – not to sit in silence feeling stuck!
The solution involves looking at what happens with only 2 pirates, and working up from there.
(We assume that the most senior pirate has the letter A.
Others will be B, C, D etc, depending on how many there are in the group.)
Pirate A suggests he gets all the gold.
He votes for it, so it carries.
Pirate A gets 100 coins, pirate B gets 0.
Pirate A knows that if he’s thrown overboard, pirate C would get nothing (as the situation would revert to the two pirate example above, with pirate C promoted to pirate B).
So if pirate A bribes pirate C with 1 coin, pirate C will vote in favour.
Pirate A gets 99 coins, pirate B gets 0, pirate C gets 1.
Pirate A knows that if he dies, then pirate C gets nothing (again, it will become the 3 pirate case, and pirate C will be promoted to pirate B), so he needs 1 coin to bribe him.
Pirate A gets 99 coins, pirate B gets 0, pirate C gets 1, pirate D gets 0.
Now Pirate A needs 3 votes, so he must bribe each of the pirates who would get 0 coins if he dies with 1 coin each.
Pirate A gets 98 coins, pirate B gets 0, pirate C gets 1, pirate D gets 0, pirate E gets 1.
Same story: bribe pirate C and pirate E.
Pirate A gets 98 coins,  pirate B gets 0, pirate C gets 1, pirate D gets 0, pirate E gets 1, pirate F gets 0.
In this final stage (although you can continue indefinitely!) the senior pirate has to get 4 votes, so must bribe 3 pirates… might as well bribe the 3 that have the most to lose if he dies (ie, pirates C, E and G).
Pirate A gets 97 coins, pirates C, E and G get 1 coin each, and the others get nothing.
Interviewer: Conall MacNiocaill, Exeter College.
How can we estimate the mass of the atmosphere?
This question can be addressed in a variety of ways and addresses several of our selection criteria: an aptitude for analysing and solving a problem using a logical and critical approach; lateral thinking and hypothesis generation; the ability to manipulate quantities and units; and the ability to apply familiar concepts (pressure, force etc.) to unfamiliar situations.
Candidates often like to start off by thinking about the composition of the atmosphere, and how we might know that, what its density is, and then to ways of estimating its volume.
We look to see if there are ways of simplifying the problem: for example, could you treat the Earth and atmosphere as a sphere slightly larger than the Earth and subtract the volume of the Earth from the larger sphere to get a volume for the atmosphere?
The difficulty with this approach often lies with determining where the atmosphere ends and how the density might vary with altitude, how applicable concepts like the ideal gas law are in these circumstances, and these are uncertainties that we might explore in a discussion.
An alternate approach is to see if there are properties of the atmosphere that we can observe at the surface that might enable us to estimate the mass.
One such property is atmospheric pressure, which is a force per unit area.
The force can also be described as a mass multiplied by an acceleration, which on Earth is the acceleration due to gravity.
Hence, if we have some idea about atmospheric pressure we can calculate the mass pressing down on a unit area.
If we can estimate the total surface area of the Earth (approximated by the surface area of a sphere) we can therefore calculate the total mass of the atmosphere.
Interviewer: Roger Benson, St Edmund Hall.
Tell me what this rock looks like.
For this question, you are given a hand sample of rock to examine, and are asked to describe what you see.
In the second part of the question, you are asked to suggest how the rock formed, and why it looks the way it does (it is made of crystals of several different types, and the types of crystal vary in their average size).
This question does not rely on pre-existing knowledge of geology or rocks.
In fact, what we are interested in is whether the candidates can make accurate and critical observations (what does the rock look like?) and are able to interpret the meaning of those observations using their knowledge of physical and chemical processes (reasoning ability: aptitude for analysing and solving problems using logical approaches).
As with many of our questions, we don’t want candidates necessarily to tell us the ‘right’ answer straight away.
We want to see that they are motivated, and keen to engage with the topic.
We don’t want to intimidate or overwhelm the candidates with difficult questions that they haven’t encountered before.
But we do want to see that they can get to grips with new information and use it in their reasoning.
So we often provide suggestions and small questions that help to guide the conversation at various points.
In the first part of the question, when describing the rock, we want candidates to organise their observations, so they have some structure.
For example, the rock is made of crystals, some of which have well-defined shapes.
The crystals vary in colour and size, and probably represent different chemical compositions (different minerals).
The smaller types of crystals generally have less well-defined edges.
In the second part of the question, we want to see that candidates can use their knowledge of crystal formation – from GCSE and possibly A-level – to interpret why the rock appears as it does.
The crystals indicate that the rock formed by crystallisation of molten rock from a liquid to a solid.
Some crystals might be larger because they took longer to form.
Crystals with poorly-defined shapes may have formed last, fitting into whatever space was available at the end of the process.
These observations can be used to discuss the history of cooling of molten rock.
Interviewer: Terry O'Shaughnessy, St Anne's College.
The Holiday Puzzle:
'Alex and Brian are cousins.
They are planning a four-day holiday in Venice and they each have 400 euros to spend.
(They have already paid for their return flights and for their hotel room.) On the flight to Venice Alex and Brian discuss how they should each allocate their spending over the four days.
Alex believes that the satisfaction he gains from spending a certain amount x euros on a given day is proportional to √ x .
Explain why this might be a reasonable way to represent his preferences.
If he has these preferences how would you expect him to allocate his spending over the four days?
Brian has the same preferences as Alex, but he knows that he tends to be impatient.
This means that, on any given day, he tends to give extra weight to the current day’s spending when he makes his spending decisions for that day.
Thus on a given day he behaves as if the satisfaction he would gain from spending x euros would be √(2 x ) whereas the thinks that on subsequent days the satisfaction he will gain from spending x euros will be only √ x .
If Brian has these preferences how would you expect him to allocate his spending over the four days?
Is there a better way for Brian to allocate his spending and, if so, how might he achieve this better outcome?
Does your analysis of this problem have any implications for any current economic policy issues?'
After asking one or two general questions such as 'what topic in Economics have you enjoyed most, or found most surprising' we move on to working through a puzzle.
We give the candidate a copy 10 minutes before the interview starts.
We might spend 10-15 minutes going through the implications of the puzzle during the interview, though this depends on how far candidates get, and how quickly they get there!
Each puzzle is designed to see how willing candidates are to abstract from the complexities of a 'real world' case involving some economic principles and to put such principles 'to work'.
There are usually some simple mathematical ideas involved (in this case, the idea that the utility function provided implies that it is best to allocate spending uniformly over the four days).
However, we do not expect any calculations to be performed, though drawing a diagram is often useful (as it is in this example).
Interviewer: Brian Bell, Lady Margaret Hall.
Do bankers deserve the pay they receive?
And should government do something to limit how much they get?
This is a very topical question in light of the recent financial crisis.
A simple answer might be that since banks are generally private firms and workers are free to work where they wish, then the pay they receive is just the outcome of a competitive labour market.
In this story, bankers earn a lot because they are very skilled and have rare talents.
It is hard to see a reason for government intervention in this case – though on equity grounds one may want to have a progressive income tax system that redistributes some of this income.
A good candidate would wonder why it is that seemingly equivalently talented people can get paid so much more in banking than in other occupations.
Do we really believe that bankers are so much better than other workers in terms of skill?
An alternative story is that the banking industry is not competitive and generates profits above what a competitive market would produce.
This would then allow workers in that industry to share some of those profits and so earn much more.
In this case, there is a role for government intervention - making the market more competitive.
The key point about this question is trying to get candidates to think about the economics of pay rather than just whether they think it is fair or not.
Interviewer: Steve Collins, University College.
Place a 30cm ruler on top of one finger from each hand so that you have one finger at each end of the ruler, and the ruler is resting on your fingertips.
What happens when you bring your fingers together?
This would never be the opening question in an interview - we usually start with a first question that gives the candidate an opportunity to get comfortable by discussing something familiar.
We then ask more technical questions based on material in the GCSE and A-level syllabi.
This question would come later in the interview, when we present candidates with an unfamiliar scenario and ask them to use what they know about familiar concepts (such as friction) to explain something.
Almost everyone in this example will expect the ruler to topple off the side where the finger is closest to the centre to the ruler because they expect this finger to reach the centre of the ruler first.
They then complete the 'experiment' and find both fingers reach the centre of the ruler at the same time and the ruler remains balanced on two fingers.
We like to see how candidates react to what is usually an unexpected result, and then encourage them to repeat the experiment slowly.
This helps them observe that the ruler slides over each finger in turn, starting with the finger that is furthest from the centre.
With prompting to consider moments and friction, the candidate will come to the conclusion that moments mean that there is a larger force on the finger that is closest to the centre of the ruler.
This means that there is more friction between the ruler and this finger and therefore the rule slides over the finger furthest from the centre first.
This argument will apply until the fingers are the same distance from the centre.
The candidate should then be able to explain why both fingers reach the centre of the rule at the same time as observed.
In some cases, particularly if we have not done a quantitative question already, we might then proceed with a quantitative analysis of forces and moments.
We might even discuss the fact that the coefficient of static friction is higher than the coefficient of dynamic friction and therefore the 'moving' finger gets closer to the centre than the static finger before the finger starts to move over the other finger.
Interviewer: Byron Byrne, Department of Engineering Science.
How would you design a gravity dam for holding back water?
This is a great question because the candidate first has to determine the forces acting on the dam before considering the stability of the wall under the action of those forces.
Candidates will probably recognise that the water could push the dam over.
The candidate would then be expected to construct simple mathematical expressions that predict when this would occur.
Some may also discuss failure by sliding, issues of structural design, the effects of water seeping under the dam, and so on.
The candidate will not have covered all the material at school so guidance is provided to assess how quickly new ideas are absorbed.
The question also probes the candidate's ability to apply physics and maths to new situations and can test interest in and enthusiasm for the engineered world.
Interviewer: Lucinda Rumsey, Mansfield College.
JK Rowling has just published a book for adults after the hugely successful Harry Potter series.
In what ways do you think that writing for children is different to writing for adults?
Candidates who have grown up on Harry Potter might have read Rowling's new book and have thought both about Rowling's change of audience and their own change as readers from child to adult.
But even without knowing Rowling's work at all candidates could say something about themselves as readers, and how as readers they approach different kinds of books, and how writers develop a body of work and write for different audiences.
Mainly I always want to know that whatever they are reading, candidates are reading thoughtfully and self-consciously, and are able to think as literary critics about all the books they read.
I worry that not all candidates might have the same access to a wide range of literature, and I am careful to judge them on what they know, not on what they don't know.
If I asked that question about Shakespeare some candidates might have a view of his literary output, but many wouldn't.
If I start with Harry Potter, everyone at least has a starting point of recognition.
And I think Rowling deserves a mention as I am sure that there are many people applying to study English at university this year who became avid readers because of her books.
Interviewer: Emma Smith, Hertford College.
Tell me about [this literary work you have mentioned in your UCAS personal statement]
I'd want to start with something the candidate has already identified as something they want to talk about (so be honest on your personal statement!).
I'd want to get a sense of what the candidate picks out about it, and perhaps to try to move the discussion onto matters of form ( how the text is written) rather than content ( what it is about).
That might include - how does the author choose to begin or end the work and why?
is it a first-person or a third-person narrator, and what effect does that have?
what kind of vocabulary and writing style are chosen?
what assumptions does it make about its readers?
There might be other questions too: does the biography of the author have any relevance to our interpretation?
do we need to know something about the historical context to understand it differently?
how would we evaluate whether it is 'good' or not, and does that matter?
where might its meaning be ambiguous?
can it be compared to one of the other texts mentioned or studied to clarify any one of these aspects?
All of these approaches are intended to develop a discussion - like a tutorial -  and to work with something the candidate is already familiar with - something they have read and/or studied and enjoyed - but to ask some more sideways or expansive questions about it, moving away from the character or close-reading focus which is often prominent at A-level but is supplemented or challenged by other reading methods during university study.
Interviewer: Lynn Robson, Regent's Park College.
Why do you think an English student might be interested in the fact that Coronation Street has been running for 50 years?
First and foremost this brings popular culture into the mix and also shows that techniques of literary analysis can be applied to other media.
It could also open up discussion about things such as techniques of storytelling; mixing humorous and serious storylines/ characters; how a writer might keep viewers or readers engaged; collaborative writing; the use of serialisation, and how writers/texts might move from being perceived as 'popular' (like Dickens, say) to be 'canonical'.
Interviewer: Lorraine Wild, St Hilda's College.
If I were to visit the area where you live, what would I be interested in?
The question gives candidates an opportunity to apply concepts from their A level geography course to their home area.
They might discuss urban planning and regeneration, ethnic segregation and migration, or issues of environmental management.
The question probes whether they are able to apply ‘geographical thinking' to the everyday landscapes around them.
It reveals the extent to which they have a curiosity about the world around them.
By asking specifically about their home area the question eliminates any advantage gained by those who are more widely travelled and have more experience of a variety of geographical contexts.
Interviewer: Ian Forrest, Oriel College.
What would a historian find interesting about the place where you live?
We use this question to open a discussion that could go in a number of different directions.
We want to encourage candidates to talk about a subject on which they know something, but where probing questions can lead them to look at what they know in a new and revealing light.
It was very common for candidates to say that nothing interesting ever happens where they live, but this was a chance for the interviewers to encourage them to reflect on what we mean by historical significance, and why some places seem unremarkable in those terms.
It also allowed us to hear candidates describe things like a town in decline, unusual street names, or pride in local sports teams, and then to ask them what questions a historian should ask in order to set these in context.
It’s also a good question because it allows us to steer candidates away from prepared scripts (which are always a waste of time), and for us to see evidence of some of the instincts and skills that are really important in good History students: observation, noticing the unusual, being interested in the world around them, a questioning attitude, and the ability to see things from new angles.
Is violence always political?
Does 'political' mean something different in different contexts?
This pair of questions allows the interviewer to deal with historical material from any period the candidate is studying or knows about from more general reading.
It could also be answered extremely well from contemporary or current affairs knowledge.
The aim of the question is to get the candidate to challenge some received notions about what constitutes politics, and to think about how political history might be studied away from the usual kings, parliaments etc.
A good candidate would, with assistance, begin to construct categories of when violence looks more and less political.
A very good candidate would, with assistance, begin to construct a useful definition of 'political', but this is challenging.
The main aim would not be to solve these problems, but to use them to find some new interest in a subject that the candidate already knows something about.
Interviewer: Stephen Tuck, Pembroke College.
Imagine we had no records about the past at all, except everything to do with sport – how much of the past could we find out about?
I would say this to a candidate who had mentioned an interest in sport on their personal statement, though it could equally be applied to an interest in something else – like film, drama, or music.
What I would be looking for is to see how the candidate might use their imagination, building on something they know about (probably much more than I do) to tackle questions of historical research.
Answers could relate to the racial/class/gender relations in society (who played the sports, and which sports, at any given time); international politics/empire (which countries were involved, did groups of countries play the same sport); economic development (the technological development of sports, how sport was watched); the values within a society (bloodthirsty sports to more genteel sports); health (participation rates); or many other issues – the list is long.
I would usually ask supplementary questions, to push the students further – and often, I would have no answer in my mind, but would simply be interested in seeing how far the student could push their analysis.
Which person (or sort of person) in the past would you most like to interview, and why?
Candidates know that this is not a right/wrong type question.
The question is not so much about which person the candidate wants to meet, but what sort of issues the candidate wants to find out about (which can be quite revealing) and then working out the best way to do so.
'Meeting' Elizabeth I or Winston Churchill might be exciting, but if the candidate wants to find out about, say, their leadership style, they might be better off asking questions of a courtier or member of the war cabinet.
Or if they wanted to find out what we don't know about any given period, they might want to interview people who didn't leave any written records.
Sometimes we might encourage the candidate to think through whether the person they selected would be willing or able to reveal the information they sought (and we allow plenty of time for the candidate to change the issue they want to find out about, and reconsider their choice of person).
Interviewer: Sian Pooley, Magdalen College.
What can historians not find out about the past?
The aim of this question is to encourage candidates to think critically, creatively and comparatively about how historians know what happened in the past.
I would use this sort of open question to allow a candidate to talk about the availability of historical evidence in whatever time period, place or theme interested them from their school-work or wider reading.
For instance, a candidate might start off by saying that they had been studying Tudor England and historians don't know much about the lives of the poor because they were less likely to be able to write.
Given these lower levels of literacy, we could then talk about what sources historians can use to learn about the lives of the majority of the population in sixteenth-century England.
This would require the candidate to think creatively about alternative sources (and their drawbacks), such as, for instance, criminal court records in which people who could not write were required to give oral testimony as witnesses.
Historians are always interested in explaining continuity and change over time, so I might then ask the candidate to compare what historians can know about Tudor England to another time period or place that interests them.
For instance, if they had also studied the USA during the Depression, I might ask the candidate whether the gaps in historical evidence are different in interwar America.
By thinking comparatively across four-hundred years and in different continents, a candidate might be able to draw some thoughtful conclusions.
They might want to think about how structures of power have altered over time or about how social norms for what can be recorded and kept in archives have changed.
This is the sort of conversation that no candidate could predict in advance.
The hope is that the discussion allows candidates to show their understanding of, and enthusiasm for, history, and – most importantly – their ability to think independently, flexibly, and imaginatively about the past.
Interviewer: Ben McFarlane, Faculty of Law.
What does it mean for someone to ‘take' another's car?
There is no right answer to this question.
For example, can you take a car without driving it, or even without moving it?
Our focus is on the candidate's reasoning – how he or she formulates an initial definition, and how he or she then applies and refines that initial definition in response to hypothetical examples provided by the interviewers.
One example might be: 'I am walking along the street when it starts to rain.
I open the door of an unlocked car and sit there for 15 minutes until the rain passes.
Have I ‘taken' the car?' The aim of the interview is to give the candidate a chance to show his or her application, reasoning ability, and communication skills.
Interviewer:  Liora Lazarus, St Anne's College.
If the punishment for parking on double yellow lines were death, and therefore nobody did it, would that be a just and effective law?
Candidates are not meant to give a right or wrong answer to this question.
They need to demonstrate that they have recognised the various issues that arise.
The candidate who distinguishes between 'just' and 'effective' does best.
The issues are different once that distinction is made.
A just law might not be effective, or vice versa.
The issues of how proportionate the punishment is to the crime refer to the justness of the law.
The answer to its effectiveness is already in the question: 'and therefore nobody did it.'
Interviewer: Imogen Goold, St Anne’s College.
Should it be illegal to run a red light in the middle of the night on an empty road?
Studying law requires that students understand what the law is, and also about what it should be, that is to think normatively.
We are particularly interested in their capacity to justify their views and interpretations.
This involves being able to analyse concepts and to critically appraise arguments and the reasoning behind a position, as well as to consider objections and to offer rebuttals to those objections.
There isn’t a right or wrong answer to this question; we would be using the example to see how well the candidate could justify their stance.
For example, a candidate might say that if no one was harmed by running the light, then it wouldn’t hurt to run it so it shouldn’t be illegal.
This would be suggesting that the law is based on preventing harm.
We might then explore whether this is the only purpose or the dominant purpose of the law, and how that might shape how legal rules need to be constructed, whether there are any circumstances in which exceptions might be valid and how effective exceptions could be created.
Here, we would be looking to see how well they can see the problems with their approach and the difficulties inherent in drafting a rule that works in every situation without being too broad.
This line of discussion would draw out their capacity to respond to challenges to their position, their ability to amend their initial answer when it no longer seems sustainable, and their ability to think precisely.
Another candidate might suggest that even if no one is harmed, it is important that laws are respected and we could examine why this is the case.
For example, if running lights was only illegal when it was dangerous, this would leave it to each person’s assessment of ‘dangerous’, so we could never be sure when someone would run a light, leading to chaotic traffic.
This question also picks up on ideas about what it means for something to be illegal and citizen’s relationship with the law, whether it can ever be justified to break the law and what might be a sufficient justification.
This could lead into more philosophical discussions of what it means for a law to be binding and how legal rules might differ from moral rules or guidelines.
A candidate might begin to consider whether there is something special about legal rules – are they different from other kinds of rules, such as those of a game, moral rules, social rules, club rules and so on.
We could use this as a way into exploring with them whether the fact that something is illegal is itself a reason not to do something, over and above, perhaps, the harm the rule is aiming to prevent.
Candidates might then think about how law makes other people’s behaviour more predictable so that we can plan our own actions, or how the law might serve functions like punishing wrongdoing.
An example might be that because the law makes murder illegal and those who kill are punished, I can expect that I can leave my house and generally not expect to be killed, so this allows me to decide it’s safe to go outside.
Concocting evidence
'You are the sheriff of a small town on the American frontier 150 years ago.
A young woman from a prominent white family in your town has been killed.
She was white, and a rumour is spreading that the killer was a young black man, even though no evidence of this has been brought forward.
There is increasing disquiet in the community.
Some people are scared for their female relations, while the family and their friends are desperate to avenge her death.
You are worried that if you don’t find the killer soon, the townspeople will take matters into their own hands and mete out vigilante justice.
You are particularly concerned that there will be violence amongst the townspeople, and possibly racially-motivated killings, if nothing is done.
You have no idea who the real killer is.
A homeless man comes to town.
He has no friends or family in the town; no-one has seen him before as far as you know.
You do not suspect he committed the murder.
However, you do think you would be able to concoct enough false evidence to convince a jury that he killed the young woman and sentence him to death.
Do you concoct the evidence to save the town from violence and potentially prevent the deaths of numerous people?
Would your answer be different if:
1) You discovered that the real murderer was the son of another prominent local family, and you believed it highly likely revealing the killer’s identity would lead to violence between the two families which could well result in numerous deaths?
2) You knew that the homeless man had been convicted of another murder and was on the run from a death sentence from another town?
3) You did have evidence of the homeless man’s guilt in the murder of the young woman, but you knew it would be rejected by the court on a ‘technicality’ of evidence rules?
Would you concoct new evidence?'
This is a complicated question and we would take the candidate through the scenario slowly and discuss their reasoning to the first part before moving on to each variation in turn.
This question delves into the role of the law in society and what is meant by justice.
There are many ways to answer it.
What we would want to see is the candidate reasoning about issues like whether the sheriff should be purely utilitarian and act so as to prevent violence, or whether other considerations like justice should override this, even if it means loss of innocent life.
Strong responses would include lots of explanation of their thinking about why there might be good reasons for the law to be committed to only punishing the guilty; the goals of punishment and its justifications; and why we need to promote trust in law enforcement institutions and the law.
Really great answers might think about how rules of evidence aim to promote justice, and might consider how something could be a technicality (or not).
Candidates could also think about what a purely utilitarian legal system might look like and the problems it might pose, and why even if the law must be utilitarian in many ways, this needs to be tempered with other considerations.
Interviewer: Steve Roberts, St Edmund Hall.
How hot does the air have to be in a hot air balloon if I wanted to use it to lift an elephant?
When I actually used this question in interviews, no-one actually got as far as an actual 'X degrees C' answer in the ten minutes or so we allowed for it, nor did we expect them to.
We use this sort of question to try to find how applicants think about problems, and how they might operate within a tutorial.
We make this clear to interviewees before even giving them questions of this type.
Things we are looking for include how readily they can see into the core of a problem (what's the essential physics in this?
– what concepts and equations might be useful?); how they respond to hints and suggestions from us (can they take a hint or two and run with it, or do they have to be dragged through every step?); their approach to basic concepts (how does a hot air balloon work, anyway?
What else operates like one?); estimates (typical size of balloon, weight of elephant) and sorting out what's important (what about the weight of the balloon itself?); and how they use 'rough maths' to get a quick idea of the likely sort of answer, using sensible approximations in working through formulae, and keeping track of units.
Interviewer: Rebecca Cotton-Barratt, Christ Church.
Imagine a ladder leaning against a vertical wall with its feet on the ground.
The middle rung of the ladder has been painted a different colour on the side, so that we can see it when we look at the ladder from the side on.
What shape does that middle rung trace out as the ladder falls to the floor?
This question tests whether you can do what mathematicians do, which is to abstract away all the unimportant information and use mathematics to represent what’s going on.
I’d initially ask the candidate what shape they think will be formed, and then ask them how they can test this hypothesis.
They might initially try sketching the ladder at different stages – this is fine, but ultimately what we want is something that we can generalise and that is accurate (you can’t be sure that your drawing is that accurate, particularly when you’re making a sketch on a whiteboard and don’t have a ruler).
So eventually they will fall back on maths, and try to model the situation using equations.
If they get stuck we would ask them what shape the ladder makes with the wall and floor, and they’ll eventually spot that at each stage the ladder is forming a right-angled triangle.
Some might then immediately leap to Pythagoras’ Theorem and use that to find the answer (which is that it forms a quarter circle centred on the point where the floor meets the wall).
This is a fun question because the answer is typically the opposite of what they expect because they think about the shape the ladder makes when it falls (which is a series of tangents to a curve centred away from the wall and the floor).
A nice extension is what happens when we look at a point 1/3 or 2/3 up the ladder.
Interviewer: Richard Earl, Worcester College.
How many ways are there to cover a 2 x n rectangular grid with 2 x 1 tiles?
The question would typically be posed with the caveat – 'I don’t expect you to have the answer straight away; try working out the answer when n = 1,2,3,4 say'.
So here is something to investigate.
Maths interviews are usually conducted over a piece of paper, sometimes at a white board and so diagrams will get drawn and the student will find the answers are 1, 2, 3, 5 for the first four cases.
Some systematic care may be needed to explain why the fourth answer is 5 and why no sixth solution has been missed.
A relatively comfortable few minutes has been spent on this, but it’s also important that the student and I aren’t talking at cross-purposes.
At this point I usually tell the student the next two answers at 8 and 13 – any thoughts on the emerging pattern?
The answer is the Fibonacci sequence – where a term of the sequence is the sum of the previous two eg 8 = 5 + 3, though it’s not important if the student hasn’t met this before or has forgotten the name.
The next stage of the interview is about understanding why that pattern should be appearing here.
When done with this bit of the interview hopefully the student has taken on board a few new ideas.
So the question moves on to: 3 x n rectangular grids and 3 x 1 tiles, to 3 x n rectangular grids and 2 x 1 tiles.
Hints will continue to be needed, but also there will be plenty of chance to see just how much the student has taken on board from earlier and how well s/he can adapt what’s been learned.
One of the reasons I found this a good question in the past was that its knowledge content is low, no more than GCSE.
But its internal complexity is sufficiently difficult to test the brightest students, especially in the final part, whilst also allowing students repeated chances to show what they were learning and share their thinking.
Interviewer: Andrew King, Exeter College.
Put these countries in order by their crude mortality (deaths per thousand of the population): Bangladesh, Japan, South Africa, the UK.
Interviews for Medicine aim to gauge candidates' understanding of the science underpinning the study of medicine, as well as skills in scientific enquiry.
This question invites candidates to think about a public health question and epidemiology that can be approached in many different ways, without necessarily knowing anything about specific mortality rates around the world.
We would expect the initial discussion to probe the differing causes of death that contribute to mortality rates – such as those 'Western diseases' heart disease and cancer – and how they compare to those found in developing countries (high infant mortality, infectious diseases, poor nutrition, high rates of HIV etc.).
The majority of candidates will expect Bangladesh or South Africa to have the highest crude mortality rate, and will be surprised to find that it is in fact Japan.
The other part of the mortality rate calculation is of course the age of the population: we would ideally steer the conversation towards a discussion of why a wealthy but older country like Japan might have a higher mortality rate, while a country like Bangladesh – which many people might initially expect to have a high mortality rate due to relative poverty as a country – actually has a relatively lower mortality rate because of its young population.
Similarly, Britain actually has the second-highest mortality rate because of the age structure of its population: we are a relatively old country and a majority of deaths occur in older people.
We wouldn't expect students to get the right answer on their own, and in fact that's not the point: the point is to see how they apply their understanding of social and cultural factors in health and illness to a problem of epidemiology.
Some students might already have a detailed knowledge of demography, others might need to be given more relevant information – the point isn't what they know, it's what questions they ask to make their conclusions, and how they interpret information to draw those conclusions.
We might then go on to discuss how you could make a valid comparison between mortality rates in different countries.
Interviewer: Chris Norbury, The Queen’s College.
The viruses that infect us are totally dependent on human cells for their reproduction; is it therefore surprising that viruses cause human diseases?
Like most good interview questions, this could be a starting point for any number of interesting conversations.
Most candidates will have a reasonable understanding that viruses are essentially parasitic genetic entities, but the interviewers are not really looking for factual knowledge.
In a tutorial-style discussion, strong candidates will engage with the paradox that viruses need us for their own reproduction, and yet cause us damage.
They might point out that some of our responses to viral infection (such as sneezing) favour the spread of the virus.
The interviewer might steer the discussion towards viral infections associated with high mortality, and the idea that any virus that killed off its host entirely would run the risk of extinction – unless it could infect other host species too.
Candidates may have come across examples of viruses that jump from non-human animals to human hosts in this way.
We might then ask if the candidate considers it possible that there are viruses that infect humans and reproduce successfully, but do not cause any disease.
How might we go about finding and characterising such viruses?
These questions probe selection criteria including problem-solving, critical thinking, intellectual curiosity, communication skills, ability to listen and compatibility with the tutorial format.
Interviewer: Helen Swift, St Hilda's College.
What makes a novel or play ‘political’?
This is the sort of question that could emerge from a student’s personal statement, where, in speaking about their engagement with literature and culture of the language they want to study, they state a keen interest in works (of whatever type they mention, such as a novel, play or film) that are ‘political’.
We might start off by discussing the specific work that they cite (something that isn’t included in their A-level syllabus), so they have chance to start off on something concrete and familiar, asking, for instance, ‘in what ways?’, ‘why?’, ‘why might someone not enjoy it for the same reason?’.
We’d then look to test the extent of their intellectual curiosity and capacities for critical engagement by broadening the questioning out to be more conceptually orientated and invite them to make comparisons between things that they’ve read/seen (in whatever language).
So, in posing the overall question ‘what makes this political?’ we’d want the candidate to start thinking about what one means in applying the label: what aspects of a work does it evoke?
Is it a judgment about content or style?
Could it be seen in and of itself a value judgment?
How useful is it as a label?
What if we said that all art is, in fact, political?
What about cases where an author denies that their work is political, but critics assert that it is – is it purely a question of subjective interpretation?
And so on.
The interviewers would provide prompt questions to help guide the discussion.
A strong candidate would show ready willingness and very good ability to engage and develop their ideas in conversation.
It would be perfectly fine for someone to change their mind in the course of the discussion or come up with a thought that contradicted something they’d said before – we want people to think flexibly and be willing to consider different perspectives; ideally, they would recognise themselves that they were changing their viewpoint, and such awareness could indicate aptitude for sustained, careful reflection rather than a ‘scattergun’ effect of lots of different points that aren’t developed or considered in a probing way.
Undoubtedly, the candidate would need to take a moment to think in the middle of all that  – we expect that ‘ermmm’, ‘ah’, ‘oh’, ‘well’, etc.
will feature in someone’s responses!
Should poetry be difficult to understand?
This question arose out of discussion of a few poems that a candidate said he had read, and we were talking through how these poems were conveying meaning (through things such as tone and the imagery they used).
We wanted to push the candidate into more conceptual thinking to test his intellectual curiosity and how he would handle moving from familiar particulars (the poems he knew) to less familiar ways of approaching them.
What's important for candidates to realise is that we don't expect a single correct answer to such a question; it's a starting point for a new direction of discussion: what sorts of 'difficulties' might we have in mind?
Are these specific to poetry or do they also feature in other types of writing?
What most interests us is that candidates are willing to venture down a new path, however uncertain this may feel: to have a go and show that they have the potential to develop their thinking further – and thus thrive on the sort of course we offer.
Literature forms an important part of a Modern Languages degree at Oxford, but we know that most candidates won't have studied literature formally before in the language for which they're applying.
What we want to know isn't that they've read a certain number of texts to prove their interest, but that they have the aptitude for studying texts: that they're able to think carefully and imaginatively about whatever they've had chance to read (poems, prose, drama) that's interested them, in any language.
What is language?
Although I would never launch this question at a candidate on its own, it might grow out of a discussion.
Students sometimes say they like studying Spanish, for example, because they 'love the language'.
In order to get a student thinking critically and analytically, the question would get them to consider what constitutes the language they enjoy – is it defined by particular features or by function (what it does)?
How does form relate to meaning?
What makes a short story different from a novel?
To further their subject interest and to discover whether the Oxford Modern Languages course is a good fit for them, candidates are encouraged to try reading some literary texts in the foreign language.
We know that most won't have studied literature formally before in the language for which they're applying, so this will be reading that they've undertaken independently.
In that respect, short stories, such as those by Guy de Maupassant, are a good and a popular place to start: they're engaging, memorable and can feel quite approachable.
So if a candidate mentions s/he has read a few short stories, we might begin by asking them which they found the most engaging (or, for instance, the most challenging) and why.
After developing this discussion for a short while, we might then push outwards from particular narratives to broader, conceptual issues, such as 'what is a short story?' or, differently posed, 'what makes a short story different from a novel?'
This isn't a question on which we'd necessarily have expected the candidate to have reflected already; it would be the beginning of a conversation, which would start by breaking down the question itself and building up an answer gradually: what might we want to think about in making such a comparison?
What elements of plot design or structure or character presentation might differ?
Are there, in fact, salient differences?
Is it a valid opposition to make?
We'd be looking for a willingness to try out new ways of thinking and an aptitude for thinking carefully and imaginatively through a perhaps initially unfamiliar issue.
That we'd been speaking about one or two particular stories before posing this 'bigger picture' question would mean that the candidate would have ready to hand material to illustrate her/his responses.
In asking such a question, I as interviewer don't have in my mind a fixed answer or set of expected points as the candidate starts to respond; the follow-up on any question depends on how s/he sets about thinking her/his way through it.
Interviewer: Stephen Goddard, St Catherine's College.
In a world where English is a global language, why learn French?
I might use this question early in an interview in order to set the candidate thinking, and to elicit some idea of their motivation before moving on to more specific questions.
Given the nature of the Modern Languages course, I would be interested in responses about the French language as a 'window' into French culture/literature/history, knowledge of which is valuable in itself/essential to understanding today's world, etc.; but would also be happy to see candidates investigate some of the assumptions underlying the question: Is English a global language?
What about Mandarin Chinese, Spanish, etc.?
Can we not in fact still consider French a global language?
Interviewer: Jane Hiddleston, Exeter College.
What do we lose if we only read a foreign work of literature in translation?
This is a good question as it helps us to see how candidates think about both languages and literature.
They might be able to tell us about the challenges of translation, about what sorts of things resist literal or straightforward translation from one language to another, and this would give us an indication of how aware they are of how languages work.
They might also tell us about literary language, and why literary texts in particular use language in ways that make translation problematic.
This might lead to a discussion of what is distinct about literary works, and this helps us to see what kind of reader they are more broadly.
We don't do this with the expectation that they have already read any particular works, however, but in order to get a sense of why they think it is worth studying literatures in foreign languages.
This is an important issue, given that Modern Languages students at Oxford read a lot of literature in the language as part of their course.
Occasionally candidates are able to give examples of famous lines or quotations that risk being misread when translated into English.
This issue might also be something we discuss when we read an extract or poem in the language together during the interview.
Interviewer: Dan Grimley, Merton College.
If you could invent a new musical instrument, what kind of sound would it make?
This question is really very open-ended, and I'm interested in answers which demonstrate a critical imagination at work--what kinds of sounds do instruments/voices make now, and how might these be imaginatively extended/developed?
Are there new ways of producing sound (digital media) which have transformed the way we listen or understand sound?
Is the idea of an 'instrument' somehow outdated these days, and can we imagine more symbiotic/hybrid ways of generating/experiencing musical sound?
It's by no means limited to classical music – I'd welcome answers which deal with musical styles and tastes of all kinds (and which are produced/consumed in all places).
Interviewer: Laura Tunbridge, St Catherine’s College.
What are the different ways in which you listen to music?
How does that change the way in which you think about what you're listening to?
Music interviews often have several parts: there may be questions about your interests or on broad topics, and many colleges will give a reading and/or a short piece of music to look at beforehand, which you will be asked questions about.
Some colleagues play music in the interview and, similarly, ask what your thoughts are about it.
The point of all this isn't to find out what you don't know but to get a sense of how you read a text or understand a piece of music, and how you think through issues or material.
We are very much aware that the types of music people play and care about are varied and the course itself covers a wide range, from global hip hop to Mozart, medieval song to sound art.
It's not a question, then, of liking the right stuff but of finding out how curious you are, and how well you can apply what you already know to something new.
Standalone questions like this one, are more unusual, but suggest the kinds of topics that might be used to prompt discussion.
The question allows students to use their own musical experiences as a starting point for a broader and more abstract discussion about the different ways people consume music, the relationship between music and technology, and how music can define us socially.
There might be follow-up questions about whether students think a particular way of listening has more worth the others, for example.
It could also prompt other discussions; for example, we tend in Western Europe to be silent in concert halls: why might that be and what is the effect?
Does it encourage a certain kind of attentiveness and respect?
Might it put some people off?
What would be the effect of, say, clapping between movements of a symphony to your understanding of how the music works?
I might also expect to discuss whether particular types of music suit being listened to in particular ways; whether listening on headphones changes the way you experience what's going around you; and what makes some soundtracks better than others.
We are interested in probing their understanding of music and its contexts, so thinking about how you share music with others and how the environment in which you listen to music affects the way you experience it.
If you hear the same tracks live, at a festival or concert, what factors change how you hear and think about the music?
The study of music is about more than just examining composed works, and a question like this gets at that aspect of the course.
Interviewer: Cecile Fabre, Lincoln College (now of All Souls).
'I agree that air transport contributes to harmful climate change.
But whether or not I make a given plane journey, the plane will fly anyway.
So there is no moral reason for me not to travel by plane.' Is this a convincing argument?
The interview is not meant to test candidates' knowledge of Philosophy, since more often than not, they have not studied this subject before.
Moreover, we are not trying to get them to guess or arrive at 'the right answer'.
Rather, the interview is about candidates' ability to think critically, to deal with counter-examples to the views they put forward, and to draw distinctions between important concepts.
This answer raises the difficult question of individuals' responsibility, as individuals, for harmful collective actions.
Some candidates might be inclined to dispute the premise that air transport contributes to climate change: that’s fine, but we would then ask them to accept that premise for the sake of argument.
Whether they are able to do that is in itself an important test, since much of philosophical thinking proceeds in this way.
Some candidates might say that the argument is a good one: given that what I do makes no difference, I have no moral reason not to do it.
At this point, I would want to know what they consider a moral reason to be (as distinct from or similar to, for example, a practical or prudential reason).
I would also push them to think about other cases: for example, the bombing of Dresden (one jet fighter less makes no difference to the collective outcome – so why not go and fight); or voting (why should I vote in a general election, given that my vote makes no difference)?
Are the cases the same?
Are they different?
If so, are the differences or similarities relevant?
That is to say, do those differences and similarities help us think about the original case?
Do they help us to work out a view about individual responsibility in those cases?
For example, in the Dresden case, the individual jet fighters act together as part of an organisation – the air force – whose aim is to bomb Dresden.
But we cannot say of companies such as British Airways that they aim to cause climate change.
And the air passengers cannot really be described as acting together.
Does this make a difference?
Suppose that you could plug yourself into a machine for the rest of your life, which would give you all the experiences you find enjoyable and valuable.
Once in the machine, you would not know that you are plugged in, and that these experiences are not real.
Would you go into the machine?
If so, why?
If not, why not?
The interview is not meant to test candidates’ knowledge of Philosophy, since more often than not, they have not studied this subject before.
Moreover, we are not trying to get them to guess or arrive at ‘the right answer’.
Rather, the interview is about candidates’ ability to think critically, to deal with counter-examples to the views they put forward, and to draw distinctions between important concepts.
Thought-experiments are an important part of doing Philosophy.
The experience machine is a thought experiment (it’s also at the heart of the movie The Matrix, of course.) It invites candidates to think about what makes a life worth living.
Some candidates might be tempted to go into the machine, on the grounds that a good life is a pleasurable life.
If so, we would invite them to consider the case of the addict with unlimited supplies of pleasures-inducing drugs.
We would also invite them to consider the distinction between ‘experiencing’ and ‘doing/acting’: could actually carrying out those pleasurable activities be a better measure of a good life than merely experiencing those pleasures?
Other candidates might say, on the contrary, that they would not go into the machine, precisely on the grounds that a good life is not merely one in which we experience pleasure.
Depending on how they construct their argument, we would try and see what they make of the distinction between what is pleasurable and what is valuable (some experiences might be valuable precisely in so far as they are not enjoyable.) In all cases we want them to reflect on whether a good life, for me, is simply what I say it is, or whether a good life must be objectively good.
Interviewer: Tim Mawson, St Peter's College
Are our deaths bad for us?
I quite like this question because whichever way one answers it, new questions open up.
One can distinguish between the process of dying and the state of being dead.
The first seems non-problematically something that might well be bad for us (involving suffering), but the second is harder to assess – not least because one can have differing understandings of what the state of being dead is: is it permanent annihilation?
Is it somehow waiting unconscious for a resurrection?
Is to die simply to be transported instantaneously to some new realm?
Or is it something else again?
And can one know which?
Whichever way the discussion goes, interesting topics branch off.
These can include the nature of the self and personal identity; the rationality (or otherwise) of religious beliefs.
There are also different understandings of what ‘badness’ is or would be – are all bad things that happen to us things which affect our consciousness, in which case how could annihilation (if that’s what being dead is) be bad for us?
And wider discussions of the nature of value might open up from there.
Is there a world of value in some sense ‘out there’, waiting to be discovered, independent of what we might happen to think or feel about it?
Or is value more ‘in here’, waiting to be created, depending on our own individual (or societal?) thoughts and feelings?
Students might also have different understandings of the ‘us’ in the original question: perhaps it’s good for us as a species that individuals die off; perhaps it’s bad for each of us as individuals that we die off.
Perhaps there isn’t an answer that applies across the board to all of us considered as individuals – some individuals' deaths are bad for them; some aren't.
Questions in practical ethics come up here – to do with euthanasia and the like.
Most people have instinctive reactions to these types of questions, answers that feel right to them without argument.
In Philosophy, we are less interested in what that answer or series of answers might be, but how the person developing their thinking justifies it with argument or adapts it in the light of counterargument; how they respond to new considerations – new conceptual distinctions, new evidence, and so on; how (or if) they spot inconsistencies or growing implausibility as their series of answers and ideas develop, or bonds of mutual support between their answers and ideas.
Why is income per head between 50 and 100 times larger in the United States than in countries such as Burundi and Malawi?
The question is focused on perhaps the most important economic question there is: why are some countries rich and some countries poor?
As with most economics questions, there is no simple or unique answer.
Candidates need to think about all the potential reasons why such income gaps exist.
A good starting point is to think about whether the amount of capital and technology available to workers in different countries is the same and if not, why not?
US workers are much more productive because they have access to the best technology - the US is at the technological frontier.
But why do poor countries not just buy the same technology and be as productive?
Possibly, the education levels are too low to allow for the use of such technology or perhaps there are insufficient savings to purchase the technology or the infrastructure might not exist.
Good candidates should recognise that institutions matter a lot - respect for property rights and the rule of law appear to be pre-requisites for sustainable development.
Other factors might include trade restrictions by the rich world on poor countries exports, civil wars, disease (eg AIDS, malaria) etc.
The trick is to think widely and not try and fit the answer to some lesson that has been learnt in school.
Interviewer: Dave Leal, Brasenose College.
When I was at school in the 1970s, there was talk of a pensions crisis that would one day hit.
The talk persisted in the 1980s, and the 1990s – and then there was a pensions crisis, and little had been done politically to prepare us for it.
Is there a fault with the British political system that means we can't sensibly address serious medium and long-term problems when they are identified?
This question was an invitation to think about democracy and its limitations – it's a big question, but an important one.
I have had candidates come up with good discussions about voting methods – for example, how having proportions of parliament voted in for much longer terms might promote more long-term policy thinking.
Another approach might be to reflect on the responsibility of the electorate; if they do not think in long-term ways, it may not be politicians who are to blame, and the problem may be down to education.
One might reflect upon the importance of having an unelected second chamber to which all really important business could be delegated.
One candidate suggested that no one should be allowed to stand for parliament unless they have dependent children, with the thought that this would ensure a personal motivation towards longer term thinking on a variety of matters.
There is no single 'right answer' to the question; most answers given serve as the basis for further elaboration.
For example, in the case of longer parliamentary terms: What would be the wider consequences of that change?
Would they be desirable?
We are testing the capacity to begin to locate the source of a problem, and try out solutions through discussion.
The precise solution students suggest matters much less than evidence of the refining of ideas and of self-correction where necessary.
I'm having trouble with the meaning of three words: Lie, Deceive, Mislead.
They seem to mean something a bit similar, but not exactly the same.
Help me to sort them out from each other.
When I used this question, candidates adopted a number of strategies.
One was to provide definitions of each of them - which turned out to be less easy than one might think without using the other words in the definition.
Or they could be contrasted in pairs, or, like a good dictionary, examples might be given of sentences where they are used.
No particular strategy was 'correct', and a variety of interesting discussions developed.
A few candidates were inclined to think that it might be possible to lie without intending to; most reckoned that one could unintentionally mislead.
A fertile line of discussion centred on misleading someone by telling them the truth.
When Lucy tries to console Mr Tumnus, the faun, in Narnia, she tells him that he is 'the nicest faun I've ever met'.
Which does sound comforting.
She's only ever met one faun, though - him - so he's also the nastiest faun she's ever met.
If he had felt comforted by her remark, would he have been deceived?
And, in saying something true, had she deceived him, or had he deceived himself?
Questions of this sort help us to test a candidate's capacity to draw nuanced distinctions between concepts, and to revise and challenge their own first moves in the light of different sentences containing the key words.
Discussion may well lead into areas which could crop up during a degree in philosophy, including questions in ethics, the philosophy of mind and of language.
It's not, though, a test of 'philosophical knowledge', and the content of the discussion begins from words which candidates should have a good familiarity with.
Until asked this question, they would probably think that they knew their meanings pretty well.
Those for whom English isn't a first language might be thought to be at a disadvantage, but they often do strikingly well at such questions, better indeed than native speakers.
There may well be reasons for this, which could form the basis of a different interview question.
Interviewer: Ian Phillips, St Anne’s College.
What exactly do you think is involved in blaming someone?
Questions like this help draw out a candidate’s ability to think carefully and precisely about a familiar concept, evaluating proposals, coming up with counter-examples, disentangling considerations, and being creative in proposing alternative approaches.
Obviously the notion of blame is an important one in moral theory but insofar as blame is an emotional attitude it also brings in issues in the philosophy of mind.
Debates about the nature of blame are going on right now in philosophy so the question is also partly a prompt for doing some philosophy together – which is exactly what we hope to achieve in a tutorial.
With a question like this we’re not looking for a right answer but instead whether the candidate can be creative in coming up with examples and suggestions, and can think critically and carefully through their implications.
So, for example, many candidates start out by suggesting that for A to blame B, A would have to think that B had done something wrong.
Many also make the point that B needn’t actually have done anything wrong.
We can use this opening suggestion to consider a simple theory of blame: blame is just thinking that someone has done something wrong.
When this is put to candidates, most recognize that blame seems to involve more than this.
This shows their capacity to evaluate a proposal, and we’ll typically ask them to illustrate their verdict with a counter-example: a case where someone thinks someone has done something wrong but doesn’t blame them.
Candidates will then be encouraged to offer and test-out more sophisticated proposals about the nature of blame.
Some might suggest that blame involves a more complex judgement than just that someone has done something wrong.
Others instead might argue that real blame requires feelings of some kind on the part of the blamer: anger, or resentment, for example.
And again we can put these proposals to the test by looking for counter-examples.
Good interviews will often generate all kinds of interesting and revealing discussions that show a candidate’s ability for analytical thought: for example about self-blame, cases of blame where the blamer knew the blamed had done nothing wrong, and indeed cases of blaming something inanimate (such as a faulty printer or phone).
Interviewer: Jeffrey Tseng, St Edmund Hall.
A ball, initially at rest, is pushed upwards by a constant force for a certain amount of time.
Sketch the velocity of the ball as a function of time, from start to when it hits the ground.
Physics interview questions often start with a question like this which looks as though it could have come from the Physics Admissions Test.
In this example, I've asked the student to sketch a graph, and then I’d help him or her to get through the problem.
Students do make mistakes, and that’s fine as I don’t expect them to know all the material, especially as the interview progresses.
It's not assumed that a less-talented student will need more help on any given problem, and for this reason it can be difficult for students to judge how well they're doing during the interview.
If a student gets things correct straight away, I just move on, either to further aspects of the original question, or to others.
For instance, the above line of questioning could easily result in a discussion of satellites, orbits, weightlessness or dark matter.
It's usually a guided discussion rather than a matter of getting answers right or wrong straight away.
I want to see how students respond to guidance and how they correct themselves, hopefully less by guessing than by thinking through what they know and what I've told them.
Or in other words, while I am looking for a correct answer in the end, I'm even more interested in rigorous thinking.
Interviewer: Kate Watkins, St Anne’s College.
A large study appears to show that older siblings consistently score higher than younger siblings on IQ tests.
Why would this be?
This is a question that really asks students to think about lots of different aspects of psychology, and we guide students when discussing it to think about both scientific factors such as maternal age (mothers are older when younger siblings are born - could that play a role?) and observational analysis about how birth order might affect behaviour and therefore performance on IQ tests.
It’s a great question because students begin from the point they are most comfortable with, and we gradually add more information to see how they respond: for example, noting that for example the pattern holds true even taking into account things like maternal age.
This can lead them to think about what the dynamics of being an older sibling might be that produce such an effect - they might suggest that having more undivided parental attention in the years before a sibling comes along makes a difference, for example.
Then we introduce the further proviso that the effect isn’t observable in only children - there is something particular to being an older sibling that produces it.
Eventually most students arrive at the conclusion that being an older sibling and having to teach a younger sibling certain skills and types of knowledge benefits their own cognitive skills (learning things twice, in effect).
But there isn’t really a ‘right’ answer and we are always interested to hear new explanations that we haven’t heard before.
What we are interested in is the kinds of reasoning students use and the questions they ask about the study - what it takes into account, what it might not – that tells us about their suitability for the course.
And of course it doesn’t matter if you have a sibling or not - though depending on family dynamics, that can add an interesting twist to the conversation!
Interviewer: Nick Yeung, University College.
Imagine that 100 people each put £1 into a pot for a prize that will go to the winner of a simple game.
Each person has to choose a number between 0 and 100.
The prize goes to the person whose number is closest to 2/3 of the average of all of the numbers chosen.
What number will you choose, and why?
I like this as a question for Experimental Psychology because answering it brings in a range of skills relevant to the subject.
Partly it involves numerical and analytical skills: the question implies that the answer will be 2/3 of some other number, but which one?
Some people's first guess is 2/3 of 100, i.e., 66 or 67, in which case I'd ask them what numbers everyone else would have to pick for them to win.
In this case, everyone else would have to choose 100, which is unlikely.
More often people first guess 2/3 of 50 (= 33), which seems intuitively more likely.
At this point, and usually without prompting, the recursive nature of the solution becomes clear: If there is good reason for me to choose 33, then maybe everyone else will choose 33 too, in which case I should choose 2/3 of 33...
but then everyone will think this and choose 2/3 of 33 too, so I should choose 2/3 of that number..
and so on.
Assuming everyone thinks like this, then everyone will eventually settle on 0 as their choice – this is the formal ‘game theory’ solution.
At this point, I'd ask questions that bring out the candidate's broader reasoning skills in terms of thinking how we could define what it is rational to do in this game.
Game theory gives one definition of rationality, but does it give a plausible winning answer – that is, is it likely that everyone, all 100 of them, will go through exactly the thought process we've just described?
If not, is 0 really a rational answer?
The question also has a psychological angle in thinking about reasons for people's behaviour and choices: Will everyone put in the same effort?
Will everyone be motivated to win?
When I've used this question in live audiences, sometimes people say they'd pick the number 100 just because it'd throw a spanner in the works for everyone playing the game rationally.
How should this affect your choice of answer?
What if the stakes were increased so that everyone put £1000 into the pot at the start?
What's clear from all of this is that we're not looking for a single answer.
Rather, we're interested in seeing how people think through a problem, figure out what are the relevant factors, respond when new information is provided, and so on.
An experiment appears to suggest Welsh speakers are worse at remembering phone numbers than English speakers.
This would never be given as a one-line question out of context – it is one of a set of questions I ask students after showing them a psychology experiment case study with data about short-term memory in English and Welsh speakers.
The key point is that numbers are spelled differently and are longer in Welsh than in English, and it turns out that memory (and arithmetic) depend on how easily pronounced the words are.
I would hope the student would pick out this connection between memory and how easy to spell or pronounce a word is, and how that relates to spelling and pronunciation in Welsh versus in English.
The interview is structured so that further hints and guidance are provided if the student doesn't immediately see this problem with the design of the experiment described in the problem sheet.
This basic question can then lead to interesting discussion about the role of language in other cognitive abilities, such as memory or maths.
This question is meant to be deliberately provocative, in that I hope that it engages candidates' intuitions that Welsh people aren't simply less clever than English people!
What is 'normal' for humans?
We're keen to point out to potential psychology applicants that primarily psychology is the study of normal human beings and behaviour; in part this is because of a suspicion that potential undergraduates are attracted to psychology to help them study forms of human life they find strange (neuroses, psychoses, parents).
There are various ways that this question might be approached, but some approach that distinguishes the normal from the statistical average is a good start.
Issues such as whether normality is to be judged by 'biological' factors that might be held to be common to humans, or whether it's normal within a particular culture or at a particular period of history, might also be worth addressing.
We are mainly looking for a line of thinking which could be developed and challenged.
Once candidates show a defensible position regarding what might serve as the basis of normality, we extend the discussion to (for example) the relation between abnormality and eccentricity.
Interviewer: David Popplewell, Brasenose College.
Why do human beings have two eyes?
This question may result from a more general discussion about the human senses.
It can develop in a number of different directions, partly depending upon the knowledge and expertise of the interviewee.
For example, two eyes are important for three-dimensional (3D) vision.
Why is it that we can still see in 3D when only looking through one eye?
What determines the optimum position and distance between the two eyes?
Why is it that we see a stable view of the world even though we are constantly moving our head?
How can an understanding of mathematics, physics and biology help us explain 3D vision?
The discussion may develop into a consideration of the different senses and the role they play in us interacting in our environment, including interacting with other people, and the nature of perceptual experience.
Interviewer: Miles Hewstone, New College.
Should interviews be used for selection?
This question could come out of a discussion of errors and biases in human judgement – that we sometimes overlook some information, while attaching too much weight to other information; and we are often over-confident about the decisions we make.
What sources of information might be used to select, for example, Oxford students?
How do we know that information is valid?
What does validity even mean?
Once we have chosen what information we will consider, how can we combine it?
And what are we trying to predict?
(What is the criterion?).
How would you design a research study to see how well different sources of information do, in fact, predict how well we can select Oxford students?
What would your study need to measure?
Would there be a control group?
If so, what kind of control group?
What would you need to control for?
Interviewer: Andrew Teal, Pembroke College.
Is someone who risks their own life (and those of others) in extreme sports or endurance activities a hero or a fool?
Theology and Religion doesn't require A-level Religious Studies, so we always want to find issues that enable us to see how a student is able to handle and unpick a question, relating the particular to more general concepts.
This question appeared to work well because there really isn't a single answer – it's open not least because we could state the opposite case and observe how flexible, reasoned and committed each student was.
The question is properly approached from many perspectives and opens up many topics – is there something distinctively human about going beyond boundaries?
Is this impulse selfish, or does it contribute to the whole of humanity's attainment?
Is the heroism of those who respond to the needs of the sportsperson more heroic still?
What debts do individuals owe to society, and society owe to individuals?
What is a hero, and is that category in opposition to folly?
What we found with this question is that it did manage to open what is a stressful occasion into a real discussion, and we want to offer places to gifted candidates who are willing to think out loud with us in tutorials, and in a college community, whilst they are still explorers into truths.
Interviewer: Peter Groves, Worcester College.
Is religion of value whether or not there is a God?
This is a question we would hope any candidate for Theology and Religion would enjoy answering.
It raises a number of issues for them to explore.
What is our definition of religion, and how fluid is that definition?
What do we mean by value, and how might it be measured?
Are the effects of religion in the past as important as its consequences in the present?
A candidate might also want to ask what we mean when we say ‘there is a God?’ Is affirming this statement enough, or should religious or theological enquiry be more specific – is talk of God in the abstract as helpful as discussion of particular religious ideas or texts?
How would we construct a case for the value of religion in the absence of belief in God?
A good answer could engage with one or more of these problems, and we would hope in conversation develop further questions.
For example, can we adjudicate competing claims in conversations such as these?
Is a worldwide religion such as Christianity or Islam intrinsically more or less valuable because of its number of adherents?
Do ethics or aesthetics have a part to play: can I claim religious ideas have value if they inspire great art or music or poetry?
Who gets to decide what is great?
Does religion affect this decision?
All these possible questions represent directions in which the conversation might go – none is particularly wrong or right, but strong candidates will see a number of different routes available for them to explore, and could choose whichever interested them most.
If your course isn't listed here, please refer to the questions for other courses which are most similar to yours.
The questions are intended to give you an insight in to the type of questions that may be asked, rather than to give specific examples of topics that will come up.
You may also like to refer to the Interviews Guide and the selection criteria for your course, which you can find on your course page .
Recorded with our tutors and current students, these subject-specific demonstration interviews will give you a good idea of what to expect from your own interview.
Each video begins with an introduction from the tutors explaining why they interview and the format or structure of the conversation.
This is followed by the sample interview itself and then a tutors' commentary during which they discuss how they feel the interview went.
You might like to stop and start the videos as you watch, so you have time to think how you might have tackled the questions and of course you can rewind and watch as many times as you like.
Don't worry if the students seem confident and articulate, remember they are used to tutorial teaching now and tutors will not expect you to be as familiar with this sort of academic discussion.
If you can't find a video for your subject below, then we recommend that if possible, you watch one in the same tier (visit the Technology required tab) as your own and for a similar subject.
You can also explore the Additional video resources where you will find interview information for other subjects.
Download the Archaeology and Anthropology video transcript .
">Video of Biology Demonstration Interview
Download the Biology interview transcript
">Video of Biomedical Sciences Demonstration Interview
Download the Biomedical Sciences interview transcript
">Video of Chemistry Demonstration Interview
Download the Chemistry interview transcript
">Video of Computer Science Demonstration Interview
Download the Computer Science interview transcript
">Video of Earth Sciences Demonstration Interview
Download the Earth-Sciences interview transcript
">Video of Engineering Demonstration Interview
Download the Engineering interview transcript
">Video of English Demonstration Interview
Download the English interview transcript
">Video of Geography Demonstration Interview
Download the Geography interview transcript
">Video of History Demonstration Interview
Download the History interview transcript
">Video of History of Art Demonstration Interview
Download the History of Art interview transcript
">Video of Human Sciences Demonstration Interview
Download the Human Sciences interview transcript
">Video of Law Demonstration Interview
Download the Law interview transcript
">Video of Linguistics Demonstration Interview
Download the Linguistics interview transcript
">Video of Materials Science Demonstration Interview
Download the Materials Science interview transcript
">Video of Mathematics Demonstration Interview
Download the Mathematics interview transcript
">Video of Modern Languages Demonstration Interview
Download Modern Languages interview transcript
">Video of Physics Demonstration Interview
Download the Physics interview transcript
">Video of Psychology Demonstration Interview
Download Psychology interview transcript
">Video of Theology and Religion Demonstration Interview
Download the Theology and Religion interview transcript
Below are additional subject-specific interview resources, some of which were filmed before the COVID-19 pandemic.
Please note that these are likely to assume that interviews are in-person, rather than online.
If you are shortlisted, it is important that you recognise that in accepting your invitation to interview, you are agreeing to the following code of conduct:
Candidates will be at serious risk of having any offer withdrawn if they do not abide by any aspects of this code of conduct.
Please talk to the college inviting you if you think you may have any difficulty accessing the equipment or the technology outlined below for your online interview.
For each interview, you’ll be sent a separate calendar invitation containing a link that will take you to the Microsoft Teams virtual interview lobby.
You’ll then be accepted into the call and your interview will begin.
You may have more than one interview, if you do we will aim to give you a minimum of 24 hours’ notice of these additional interviews.
First, check your junk/spam folder.
The email may have been flagged as spam.
If you still can't find it, contact the admissions office of the college sending you the invitation to let them know you haven't received it and they can send it to you again.
In other subjects, you might have ‘initial’ interviews at your first college, and then you might be invited to an ‘additional’ interview at another college after these have taken place.
We aim to give everyone a minimum of 24 hours’ notice of these additional interviews.
You can find out more by looking at the interview timetable on our website, which has the interview dates for each course.
This should be somewhere you have reliable access to the required technology and a quiet space, free from distraction.
If there are any adjustments you need because of a disability, make sure whoever has invited you to interview knows about these as soon as possible.
Read further guidance .
Have a look at the tips we give on the How can I prepare?
tab on this page, but the main thing is to try and be yourself and remember if you have been shortlisted, you are a strong contender for a place.
No.
All the information on the tabs of this webpage will tell you what you need to know.
You might be asked to read a passage or an article before your interview, which will be sent to you by email.
If so, then you should make sure you will have a quiet space to read it on your own before your interview, just like if you were taking an exam.
You must not research online any materials shared with you as part of a pre-interview task unless explicitly permitted to do so by the interviewers.
Your college will explain this to you beforehand.
Everyone will need a computer with a microphone, speakers, and webcam.
All interviews will be using Microsoft Teams for video conferencing.
You don’t need to have a Microsoft account for this, but you will need to use a computer that either has Teams installed or can access Teams on the internet.
You must ensure that any automatic transcription tools you may have enabled in Microsoft Teams are disabled during your interviews and you are not permitted to use any assistive technology during your interviews unless as agreed as a reasonable adjustment for a disability.
If you have any problems getting hold of technology, talk to your school and if you still aren’t able to access it, then contact the college you are being interviews by.
Whether you need additional software or devices will depend on the course you are applying for.
Each subject has been placed into a tier, from 1 to 3.
Each tier will use technology differently.
Please refer to the Technology page to see which tier your subject is in.
You will need a computer with a microphone, speakers, and webcam.
In terms of software, you will just need Microsoft Teams.
During the interview, your interviewers might share their screens to show you a document, or hold something up to the camera, but otherwise it is just a conversation.
In addition to running Microsoft Teams on a computer or similar, you will need a Miro virtual whiteboard.
For tier 2 subjects you should access Miro on the same device you’re accessing Microsoft Teams.
The virtual whiteboard is accessible via the Miro website or app at www.miro.com .
We recommend that you create a Miro account prior to your interview to practise using a virtual white board – this is free to do.
You’ll be sent a link to a specific Miro whiteboard for your interview, and during the interview, your interviewers might show you a document by sharing their screen or pasting it into the Miro whiteboard, or by holding something up to the camera.
Your interviewers might also use the Miro whiteboard themselves to write out mathematical notation, draw sketches, annotate diagrams or text, or to add text.
You may be asked to add basic markings using the ‘draw’ tool to highlight, point to, or annotate an existing image or text, or to add text using the ‘text’ tool.
You won’t be asked to write out complex mathematical notation.
However, you might also be asked to show any rough working of your own using your own webcam.
You will need to switch between your interview Teams call and the Miro whiteboard, meaning that you might not be able to see the interviewers whilst using the whiteboard.
If you are joining the call in browser you can just switch between the two tabs.
If you are joining the call in the Microsoft Teams client and aren’t able to see both windows at once then you will need to minimise the Teams app to use the whiteboard.
We have created further guidance for tier 2 subjects on our webpage.
For tier 3 subjects you will need to run Microsoft Teams on a computer or similar but in addition you will need a touchscreen device on which to use a virtual Miro whiteboard and a stylus you can write with on this.
The whiteboard is accessible via the Miro website or app at www.miro.com .
We recommend that you create a Miro account prior to your interview to practise using a white board – this is free to do.
Your touchscreen device should have a screen that’s at least 8 inches, so a mobile phone won’t be big enough.
During the interview, your interviewers might show you a document by sharing their screen or pasting it into the Miro whiteboard, or by holding something up to the camera.
You might be asked to show any rough working on your own camera.
Interviewers might also use the Miro whiteboard to write out mathematical notation, draw sketches, annotate diagrams or text, or to add text.
You might also be asked to use Miro and your touchscreen device and stylus to:
We have created further guidance for tier 3 subjects on our webpage.
To create an account and practise using a virtual whiteboard, go to www.miro.com .
You will be asked during registration to give your company name and role but here you can instead just enter your full name and when asked for your role, click on the option "Not company-related".
You can find further guidance on creating a Miro account on our webpage.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/applying-to-oxford/guide/decisions:
Shortlisted candidates for 2026 entry will be told whether or not their application has been successful on 13 January 2026.
Decisions will be released via UCAS in the morning.
This will be followed by direct communication from the college considering your application.
Tutors make decisions based on all aspects of your application:
Feedback on admissions decisions may be requested from the college which considered the application, before 15 February in the year after the application was made.
Congratulations if you have received an offer!
Over the next months we will keep in touch via our offer holder newsletters which will give you tips and insights into student life at Oxford and let you know how to prepare for your arrival here next October.
If you can’t wait that long, then have a look now at our Oxford Students website .
Typically, we receive more than 23,000 applications for around 3,300 places and every year we receive applications from many more brilliant candidates than we have places for.
We are very aware that sadly not everyone will receive the news from Oxford they were hoping for.
We also know that many who do not receive an offer here go on to have a fabulous time at another university and some even come here for postgraduate study .
So we may meet again, but in the meantime, we wish you every success with your studies and would like to thank you for considering Oxford.
If you receive an offer but have not yet completed all your current qualifications, it is likely that this will be conditional.
Normally, meeting these conditions involves achieving certain examination results and where examinations are going ahead as planned, we expect these conditions to be met.
In countries where the normal examinations have been cancelled, we will expect the conditions of your offer to be met by the alternative assessment put in place by qualifications' regulators.
Oxford remains committed to a fair and flexible admissions process which will aim to ensure no students are disadvantaged by the COVID-19 pandemic, in particular those from under-represented and less advantaged backgrounds.
However, whatever changes occur, providing you meet all the conditions of your offer with us by the deadline stipulated by UCAS, your offer will be confirmed and you will be accepted by the University.
This applies to all our offer holders, wherever you are currently studying in the world.
For details of typical offers for your course, please see the Entrance Requirements tab on the relevant course page .
Please note that any offer may also include a requirement for evidence of proficiency in the English language .
Some candidates who receive conditional offers will have already completed school or college leaving qualifications and met the conditions.
In this case, once you have completed all the necessary administrative steps to provide your college with the evidence required, your place will become unconditional and be confirmed.
If you get an open conditional offer, your place at Oxford is guaranteed (as long as you meet any conditions attached to the offer and complete the necessary administrative steps).
However, the college you will go to has not yet been specified, and will not be decided until after you have produced evidence that you have met the conditions of your offer and when your place is confirmed.
Each year, over 250 offers include a place on our Opportunity Oxford programme .
Through this programme, we make offers to candidates who have demonstrated outstanding potential and who we feel would benefit from additional academic support in preparation for their course.
Offers made to applicants on the Opportunity Oxford programme are made on the same rigorous basis as all others.
The programme aims to smooth the transition to university from school or college so participants have the best possible start to their undergraduate career at Oxford.
If you receive an offer of a place, your college will require you to complete a Financial Declaration form in order to meet your financial condition of admission.
This aims to ensure that you are fully aware of the expected fees and living costs associated with your chosen course of study at Oxford and to give you the opportunity to plan your finances before you arrive to begin your course.
Read the 2025/26 Course Information Sheet for your course.
Read more about your contract with Oxford University .
Genuine communications from the University will be sent to you from: [email protected] or from an ‘ox.ac.uk’ email address.
If you have any concerns about the legitimacy of a document that you have been sent by the University or one of its departments/faculties or colleges then please contact the University .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/applying-to-oxford/undergraduate-admissions-and-outreach-newsletter:
Are you thinking of applying for undergraduate study at Oxford or supporting someone who is?
Please complete the form below to subscribe to our newsletter, Choosing Oxford, so we can keep you up to date with all the latest information and news on undergraduate admissions, events and other opportunities from Oxford University.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/digital-prospectus:
If you're just beginning to think about university, and are curious about what Oxford is like, you're in the right place.
Some people worry they might not be the Oxford "type", but this really doesn't exist.
There is no typical Oxford student and no single experience at our University.
Staff and students come from all kinds of backgrounds - the one thing they all have in common is a love of learning.
We believe this helps to make Oxford one of the most exciting university environments anywhere.
We hope you agree and that you enjoy finding out more about Oxford and deciding whether this might be the place for you.
Lots of people also think that Oxford students spend all their time working.
It's true that studying is an important part of the Oxford experience, but do you know how much else you can do while you're here?
Whether it's simply relaxing with friends, taking part in sport, promoting a campaign you believe in, volunteering for a local charity, rehearsing for a play or something very different, if you do study at Oxford how you spend your free time here will be very much up to you.
University is a big financial commitment and it's important you know how much funding is available to Oxford undergraduates, particularly if you are from the UK.
We offer one of the most generous student support packages of any UK university, and are committed to ensuring that no student offered a place is deterred from coming because of cost.
Don't forget that if you'd like to experience Oxford for yourself rather than just taking our word for it, you can!
Our 2025 undergraduate Open Days will be held on 2 and 3 July and 19 September, with more detailed information published on our website in the build-up to each event.
We look forward to hopefully seeing you in Oxford soon!
Keep in touch with us
Sign up for our Choosing Oxford newsletter for step-by-step support with your application.
Sign up to our Choosing Oxford newsletter and visit our undergraduate admissions website for all the latest information about applying to Oxford.
Please fill in our feedback form about this prospectus to be entered in a prize draw.
Our 2025 University-wide undergraduate Open Days will be held on 2 and 3 July and 19 September.
Further information will be published on our website in the build up.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/increasing-access/oxplore:
Are you looking to stretch and challenge the curious young minds in your life?
Then Oxplore could be the place for you!
Oxplore is a free educational website created by the University of Oxford designed to engage 11-18 year olds with complex ideas across a wide range of subjects.
The website is organised into a series of thought-provoking Big Questions which take students on a guided journey to encourage their powers of debate and critical thinking.
Each question has a series of learning resources (articles, quizzes, podcasts, videos, and image galleries) which draw upon some of the cutting-edge research led at Oxford.
With over 50 Big Questions on Oxplore, there should be something to make every mind curious!
">Video of What is Oxplore?
Find out here...
Below are two ideas to get your students/children started with using Oxplore.
These activities will enable children to practise learning and research skills which are valued in a range of subjects.
Look out for the ‘Good practice for’ sections for more information.
Visit Oxplore and find a Big Question that intrigues you.
Draw a thought bubble and write the question inside.
Around your thought bubble, jot down your first impressions.
This could include:
Look at the Big Question materials and add to your ideas.
What have you learnt?
Did anything surprise you?
What would you like to learn more about?
Could there be an interesting subject to study which is related to this topic?
(Check out the ‘Take this further’ resource in the ‘Read more’ section of the Big Question you selected for subject ideas).
Good practice for: Summarising existing and new knowledge; considering multiple perspectives; challenging preconceptions; forming a balanced opinion.
Select a Big Question and learn more about a topic that interests you.
Take a postcard-size piece of paper.
On one side, write down some of the key points made in the question and what it has made you think - for example:
‘Dear..., today I learnt about....
Some people argue that...
while others suggest...
Something that surprised me is...
Overall, I think that...
Postcards are short texts, so make your points as concisely as you can.
On the other side, create an artistic representation of the question.
You could write down the question itself or add drawings which relate to the topics covered.
Get creative!
Maybe you could send your postcard to a friend.
Remember to include our url - oxplore.org - so they know where to look!
Good practice for: Summarising ideas; writing concisely; adopting the codes and conventions of a particular text (i.e.
a postcard); expressing ideas artistically and through a different medium.
You can download a PDF with ideas for both of these activities , plus others.
You can also find other learning resources and hear about upcoming opportunities run by Oxplore on our blog .
We’d love to hear how you’re using our resources and engaging with our Big Questions.
Stay in touch via @letsoxplore on X (Twitter) , Instagram and Facebook .
Ask us a question: [email protected]
*To be able to comment on Big Questions, you’ll need to register for a free Oxplore account .
By doing this, you’ll also be able to bookmark resources for later, and gain updates about new Big Questions and Oxplore events in our termly newsletter.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/applying-to-oxford/videos:
Are you thinking of applying to Oxford, but not quite sure what studying here might be like?
Our 'What student life here is really like' official guide will take you through everything from how you'll learn to our wide range of clubs and societies.
">Video of Oxford undergraduate official guide - What is student life really like?
Read the transcript for 'What student life here is really like'
Whatever stage you're at in your studies, there are things you can do to get ready for studying at Oxford.
In this official guide to undergraduate study at Oxford, we'll talk you through some ways to prepare.
">Video of Oxford undergraduate official guide - Ways to prepare
Read the transcript for 'Ways to prepare'
In this Oxford undergraduate official guide to 'How to apply' we explain what you need to know for each stage of the Oxford application process.
">Video of Oxford undergraduate official guide - How to apply
Read the transcript for 'How to apply'

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/undergraduate/undergraduate-applicant-privacy-notice:
Expand All
The University of Oxford is committed to protecting the privacy and security of your personal information (‘personal data’).
This privacy policy describes how we collect and use your personal data during the admissions process in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and related UK data protection legislation.
It should be read in conjunction with the privacy policy of the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
This policy applies to prospective undergraduate students.
In addition, each college 1 will have its own privacy notice.
It is important that you read this policy, together with any other privacy policy we may provide on specific occasions when we are collecting or processing information about you, so that you are aware of how and why we are using the information.
1 College means any college or Permanent Private Hall
The University of Oxford 2 is the “data controller" for the information that we obtain from you or others as a result of your application for undergraduate study.
Access to your data will be provided to the University’s staff, including those based in the University’s colleges, who need to view it as part of their work in carrying out the purposes set out in Section 6.
We also share it with the third parties described in section 8.
2 The University’s legal title is the Chancellor, Masters and Scholars of the University of Oxford
The information we hold about you may include the following:
We may also process the following "special categories" of more sensitive personal data:
Special category data will not be used to assess your application and will only be used in accordance with section 7.
Most of the information we hold comes from your application, for example, via UCAS.
We may also collect additional information directly from you and from third parties, including referees, former schools, colleges and universities, and government departments and agencies.
We process your data for the purpose of processing and assessing your application for study, and for purposes related to your application, such as assessing your eligibility for funding and your financial status.
We set out below those circumstances where it is necessary for us to process your data.
(These circumstances are not mutually exclusive; we may use the same information under more than one heading.)
6.1 Because we have a contractual obligation to consider your application
Information processed for this purpose includes the data listed in section 4 above.
We also need to process data under this heading where the University is working with a third party in order to offer you services, for example, those offered by the colleges or scholarship benefactors.
See section 8 for a fuller list of examples of third party sharing.
6.2 Where we need to comply with a legal obligation
Information processed for this purpose includes, but is not limited to, information relating to the monitoring of equal opportunities.
We are also required by law to provide data to various Government departments through the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) .
6.3 Where it is necessary to meet our legitimate interests
We also need to process your data in order to meet our legitimate interests or the legitimate interests of others.
Examples include, but are not limited to, the following:
6.4 Where we have your consent
There may be situations where we ask for your consent to process your data e.g.
where we ask you to volunteer information for a survey (you will always be able to opt out of receiving such communications).
If you fail to provide personal information under 6.1 or 6.2 above
If you fail to provide certain information when requested under the circumstances described in 6.1 and 6.2 above, we may not be able to meet our contractual obligation to consider your application or to comply with our other legal obligations.
Change of purpose
We will only process your personal data for the purposes for which we collected it, unless we reasonably consider that we need to use it for another related reason and that reason is compatible with the original purpose.
Please note that we may process your data without your knowledge or consent where this is required or permitted by law.
Special category data and criminal conviction data require a higher level of protection.
Listed below are examples of processing activities that we regularly undertake in respect of these types of data.
In addition to the activities listed below, it may sometimes be necessary to process this sort of information for exceptional reasons, for example, because it is necessary to protect your vital interests or those of another person.
We may also process your special category data to identify your eligibility for certain scholarships aimed to address underrepresentation.
7.1 Disability
We will process data you have volunteered about any disability in order to make any arrangements or adjustments required in relation to your application (e.g.
to arrange access for interviews) and/or to monitor equal opportunities.
We may share this data, for the same reasons, with the University’s colleges.
7.2 Criminal conduct
Data about certain unspent criminal convictions, including whether or not you have such a conviction, is gathered during the process of applying for a course with us once you have been offered a place.
Data about barring decisions will only be collected if you have applied for and been accepted onto our Medicine courses, and where we are legally required to do so.
Processing of this nature is carried out in order to protect our legitimate interests including to protect members of the University community from a foreseeable risk of harm.
For certain courses this processing is also necessary to meet our legal obligations.
Such processing of this nature will be subject to suitable safeguards.
7.3 Racial or ethnic origin, sexual orientation and religious belief
Data about your racial and ethnic origin, religious belief or sexual orientation will only be processed where you have volunteered it and where we need to process it in order to meet our statutory obligations under equalities and other legislation.
This processing is considered to meet a substantial public interest, and we will seek to anonymise the data as soon as practicable.
In order to perform our contractual and other legal responsibilities or purposes, we may, where relevant and necessary, need to share your information with the following types of organisation:
Where information is shared with third parties, we will seek to share the minimum amount necessary.
All third-party service providers that process data on our behalf are required to take appropriate security measures to protect your data in line with our policies.
There may be occasions when we transfer your data overseas, for example, to obtain a reference or to verify information in your application.
Such transfers will only take place if one of the following applies:
We will retain your data only for as long as we need it to meet our purposes, including any relating to legal, accounting, or reporting requirements.
Details of the retention periods for different types of applicant and student data are available here .
If you enrol as a student, your data will be processed in accordance with our student privacy policy which is available here .
However, where you have consented to the processing (for example, where you have asked us to send you certain types of communication), you can withdraw your consent at any time, by emailing us at study@ox.ac.uk .
In this event, we will stop processing as soon as we can.
If you choose to withdraw consent it will not invalidate past processing and it may impact our ability to provide particular additional services to you.
If you want to exercise any of the rights described above or are dissatisfied with the way we have used your information, please contact the University’s Information Compliance Team at data.protection@admin.ox.ac.uk .
The same address can be used to contact the University’s Data Protection Officer.
It is important that the data we hold about you is accurate and current.
You can access, amend and delete your data yourself until the point at which you submit your application to the University.
Please keep us informed of any changes after you submit your application.
We reserve the right to update this privacy policy at any time, and will seek to inform you of substantial updates.
We may also notify you in other ways from time to time about the processing of your personal data.
Data Protection Enquiries Email: data.protection@admin.ox.ac.uk
The Information Compliance Team
University of Oxford
University Offices
Wellington Square
Oxford OX1 2JD
GDPR and the University
Gifts and hospitality policy
ICO registration
Photography guidance
The Prevent Duty
Retention schedules
Submit an FOI request
Council Secretariat
Governance
Legal services
HR Support
Proctors
Jobs
HR Self-Service login
Professional development
Access guide
Searchable map
Nexus email login
Term dates
© University of Oxford
Cookies statement Picture credits Legal Accessibility statement Privacy statement

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/sign-up-entry-in-2025-26:
Sign up to receive regular emails containing information about graduate study at Oxford, the admissions process and how to apply for entry in 2025-26.
If you would like us to send you a regular email update about graduate study at Oxford and how to apply for entry in 2025-26, please enter your details in the form below.
You will receive a regular monthly email while applications are being accepted for admission in 2025-26.
Alternatively, if you would like to receive updates about applying for entry in 2026-27 , you can register to receive regular updates from us, starting in September 2025.
We use a third party provider, Adestra, to deliver our emails.
We gather statistics around email opening, user location and clicks using industry standard technologies including clear gifs to help us monitor and improve our email communications.
For more information about how we use your data, please refer to our data privacy statement below this form.
By clicking ‘submit’ you are giving us your consent to process your personal data for this purpose.
The University of Oxford (the ‘University’), is the ‘data controller’ for the information you have provided above, which means we decide how to use it and are responsible for looking after it in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation and associated data protection legislation.
We will use your data to send you a regular email update about graduate study at Oxford, the admissions process, and other marketing content.
We use Adestra (a product of Upland) to deliver our email communications.
For more information, please see Upland’s privacy notice .
The University is processing your data for this purpose because you have given us your consent to do so.
You can withdraw your consent at any time by contacting [email protected] .
If you withdraw your consent, we will stop the processing as soon as we can.
However, this will not affect the lawfulness of any processing carried out before your withdrawal of consent.
We may also compare the data you have provided with user account data from our Graduate Application Form to understand how many email subscribers subsequently go on to make an application for postgraduate study at the University.
This processing occurs because it is necessary to meet our legitimate interests in monitoring the outcomes of our recruitment activity and improving our service.
Access to your data within the University will be provided to those who need to view it as part of their work in carrying out the purposes described above.
We may share your data with companies who provide services to us, such as providers of email and mailing list services.
These companies are required to take appropriate security measures to protect your data in line with our policies.
Where we share your data with a third party, we will seek to share the minimum amount necessary.
As a prospective applicant, we will store your data for 12 months after the current admission cycle has closed to meet our purposes, including relating to legal, accounting, or reporting requirements.
If you apply to study on a postgraduate course at the University of Oxford, your data will be processed in accordance with our postgraduate applicant privacy policy .
If you enrol as a student, your data will be processed in accordance with our student privacy policy .
Your data will be held securely in accordance with the University’s policies and procedures.
Further information about information security is available on the University’s Information Security website.
We store and use your data on University premises, in both a manual and electronic form.
Data will also be processed and stored electronically, both at the premises and in the online systems of companies that provide services to us, such as providers of email and mailing list services.
You may request access to any of your data, request that our processing is restricted, object to our processing or request that your data be corrected or transferred to another party, subject to certain restrictions.
You may also request that your data be deleted or ask for us to stop using it, and we will comply with your request as soon as possible.
Depending on the circumstances, however, we may have legal grounds for continuing to process your data, for example where processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest, or where the data is being further processed for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes, in accordance with applicable data protection laws.
If you would like to exercise any of the rights mentioned above or if for any reason you are not happy with the way that we have handled your data, please contact the University’s Information Compliance Team at [email protected] .
If you are still not happy, you have the right to make a complaint to the Information Commissioner’s Office.
If you wish to raise any queries or concerns about our use of your data, please contact us by sending an email to [email protected] , or by writing to Graduate Admissions, University Offices, Wellington Square, Oxford, OX1 2JD.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/applying-to-oxford/application-guide/declaration-and-payment/application-fee-waivers:
If you are resident in a low-income country, in the list of eligible countries below, and you are not able to pay the application fee, you can request a waiver of this fee.
This must be done within your online application form.
You should select ‘Standard’ on the ‘Application type’ tab.
To be eligible for this application fee waiver, you must meet all of the following criteria:
If you indicate on the application form that you are resident in one of the eligible countries below, you will be asked additional questions relating to this waiver scheme.
If your answers to these questions indicate that you are eligible for this waiver, you will not be directed to the payment screens when you submit your application.
If you are, or were, a refugee; stateless person; asylum seeker; or have been otherwise forcibly displaced within or outside your country of origin, you are eligible for an application fee waiver as long as you meet the minimum entry requirements for the course.
To request this waiver, answer ‘yes’ to the question asking whether you are a refugee, stateless person, or asylum seeker, or have been otherwise forcibly displaced within or outside your country of origin on the ‘About You’ tab of the application form.
You must also confirm that you meet the published minimum entry requirements for the course you are applying to.
Applicants who completed their undergraduate studies after January 2021 and who received at least the following levels of support from their regional funding body, or equivalent bursary, during their degree may request that the graduate application fee be waived.
The minimum qualifying support levels for each year for the different regions are set out below.
If you completed a part-time undergraduate degree during this period, contact Graduate Admissions for information on eligibility thresholds.
In addition, UK-resident asylum seekers and refugees are also eligible for an application fee waiver.
Final year maintenance grant of at least £689.
Final year Young Student bursary of at least £500.
Final year Independent Student loan of at least £9,900 in 2024-25, £7,500 in 2023-24, £6,600 in 2022-23 or at least £6,250 in 2021-22 or earlier.
Final year grant of at least £1,142
Applicants are also eligible for an application fee waiver if they are currently in receipt of one of the following benefits from the UK Government, and were not in full-time education in the 2023/24 academic year:
To request a waiver, please upload a scanned copy or screenshot of your most recent bursary or Student Finance letter that shows the financial support package you receive(d) for the final year of your undergraduate degree (detailing any loan/grant in addition to the standard government loan that all UK-resident students are eligible for).
Please ensure that any screenshot/letter includes:
If you are instead submitting a needs-based bursary letter, you must provide evidence that the eligibility criteria require a household income below £35,000 per year.
If you are applying on the basis of currently being in receipt of benefits and/or financial support from the UK Government, please upload a scanned copy or screenshot of your entitlement letter showing you are in receipt one of the above benefits and/or financial support from the Government.
Upload supporting document
Once we have processed your request, we will send you a code that you can enter into the application form to avoid having to go through the payment screens when submitting your application.
If you are applying for more than one course, this code will work for multiple applications that you submit, but may not be used by other applicants.
This code can be applied after starting a ‘standard’ application, so there is no need to wait for the code before starting your application.
You must submit your request two weeks ahead of the deadline you are applying to in order to ensure that you receive the code in good time.
Where a late request is submitted, it will not be possible to extend the application submission deadline.
Applicants who applied to UNIQ+ at the University of Oxford in the past two years (for the 2023 or 2024 programmes) and met the eligibility criteria may request that the graduate application fee be waived.
To request a waiver, please contact [email protected] as soon as you have started your application for graduate study, noting that you applied to UNIQ+.
Where possible, please use the email address that you used to apply to UNIQ+ so that we can verify your request against our records.
This waiver code can be applied after starting a ‘standard’ application, so there is no need to wait for the code before starting your application.
If you are currently studying for an Oxford graduate taught course and applying for a research course with no break in your studies, you may be eligible to apply for readmission.
You must meet the same deadlines and requirements as other applicants, but you won't be required to pay an application fee.
Find more information about readmissions status in this Application Guide.
Approximately 20 research courses that are Centres for Doctoral Training (or DPhils that are similarly structured), are taking part in a scheme that will enable you to be considered for up to three courses with the payment of a single application fee.
These courses, which are listed below, are offered by the Mathematical, Physical and Life Sciences (MPLS) and Medical Sciences divisions:
After you have submitted an application for one of the courses shown above, you can request an application fee waiver for up to two further eligible courses.
We recommend that you use your application fee waiver to apply only for eligible courses that are closely related in research area to the course you have chosen.
If you apply to Intelligent Earth (UKRI CDT in AI for the Environment) and/or the DPhil in Interdisciplinary Life and Environmental Science, one of the following courses offered by the Social Sciences Division will also be considered eligible:
This special arrangement is possible due to the close association between these courses.
No other exceptions to the eligibility criteria will be considered.
Please refer to the instructions on the relevant course page for further details about how to request an application fee waiver.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/admissions/graduate/sign-up:
Sign up to receive regular emails containing information about graduate study at Oxford, the admissions process and how to apply for entry in 2026-27.
If you would like us to send you a regular email update about graduate study at Oxford and how to apply for entry in 2026-27 , please enter your details in the form below.
Starting in September 2025, you will receive an email when applications open and a regular monthly email while applications are being accepted for admission in 2026-27.
Alternatively, if you are applying for entry in 2025-26 , you can register to receive regular updates from us whilst applications are being accepted for entry in 2025-26.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/engage-with-us/external-organisations/innovation-oxford:
Oxford’s innovators are saving lives and safeguarding our future.
They’re uncovering the hidden histories of our national treasures and keeping safe the data we depend on.
They’re working with global leaders and local communities, big businesses and social enterprises.
They’re solving real world challenges with imaginative insights and innovative solutions.
Innovation has no rulebook.
There is no one way to innovate or be an innovator – but we can help.
If you’re looking to make a change in the world, innovate with us.
Visit: Engage with us or contact [email protected] to get started.
How the Churches Conservation Trust, in partnership with Oxford experts, is boosting its commercial and trading knowledge to bring about benefits for the heritage sector.
Explore how Oxford Ionics is on a mission to build the world's most powerful quantum computers using pioneering trapped-ion technology.
Find out how the University of Oxford is helping to lead the fight against one of the greatest global health challenges.
Take a look at how development of the science park is providing a living lab to model sustainable practices.
Find out how two students started a social venture to help people out of homelessness.
Discover how spiders are helping innovation in surgery and environmental sustainability.
Learn about an innovative data-led approach to building restoration.
Discover how virtual reality is bringing mental health treatments to more people.
Find out about the Oxford spinout at the forefront of creating a fusion future to meet the world’s demand for clean energy.
Take a look at how an Oxford partnership is helping a global chemical company reduce its impact on the environment.
Discover how one of Oxford's greatest innovation success stories is on a mission to empower scientists to analyse anything, anywhere.
Explore how a partnership between the University of Oxford and the National Trust is shining new light on historic properties, landscapes and collections.
Uncover the story behind the eco-laundry and wet-cleaning service that’s taking your dirty washing for a ride.
See how a meeting of medical minds led to an innovative diagnostics company aiming to provide better care for patients with liver disease, diabetes and cancer.
Find out what happens when you put the intellectual property of academics in the hands of business-minded students.
Read about how a partnership that began half a century ago is aiming to be at the forefront of the green future of flight.
Discover how governments and businesses are being provided with the ability to understand multi-dimensional poverty and employee living situations.
Learn what happens when a team of Saïd Business School students turn a climate emergency assignment into a flourishing AI business.
Discover how a collaboration with a pharmaceutical giant delivered a COVID-19 vaccine to millions worldwide in just eleven months.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/engage-with-us/external-organisations/research-collaboration-values:
Collaboration with partners is fundamental to our research endeavour, to our pursuit of new knowledge, and to changing the world for the better.
Only through partnership with organisations, researchers, communities and research participants around the world can we together advance discovery and tackle the most pressing societal challenges.
Through equitable partnerships we create and sustain lasting networks and work with our collaborators to build capacity and a vibrant global research system.
Our approach to research collaboration and partnership is underpinned by five core values:
Pursuing bold and ambitious research to change the world for the better We collaborate with others to pursue bold and ambitious research of exceptional quality and to advance knowledge and discovery.
We work to increase the reach and significance of our research in order to address the greatest challenges facing society and have a positive impact on people around the world.
Maintaining independence and integrity We maintain, in all our research collaborations, our commitment: to academic independence and academic freedom; to research excellence and the highest standards of research integrity; to appoint who we choose to work on our projects consistent with our commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion; and to disseminate and use our research free from interference or undue influence, for the benefit of the public and in line with our charitable status.
Keeping our people, collaborators and research participants safe We prioritise the safety and security of our researchers and all other staff and students, our collaborators, and research participants, enabling them to undertake their research and collaborations with confidence and in compliance with regulatory and legislative requirements.
Identifying and managing risks In our collaborative work we identify and mitigate appropriately any risks relating to: reputational, political, ethical, legal and financial issues; the protection of our intellectual assets and our physical and cyber security; and our research or collaborations being used by governments or other organisations to undermine human rights.
Ensuring equitable collaboration and transparent recognition We treat our collaborators and research participants equitably and with respect, ensuring to the fullest extent possible that the same ethical, research practice or other safeguards that apply to our work in the UK apply when we work anywhere in the world.
We seek and develop deep and long-lasting partnerships, especially where our collaborations can contribute to greater capacity building in low and middle income countries.
We ensure fair and equitable recognition of the contributions of all collaborators and the transparent acknowledgement of financial or other support for our research.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/engage-with-us/international-visiting-researchers:
The University welcomes research visits from international academics.
We accept two types of visiting researchers:
Graduate students who are interested in spending time studying under the supervision of an Oxford academic can apply for Recognised Student status .
The Oxford University Welcome Service provides practical information on coming to Oxford from abroad.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/engage-with-us/contact-us:
General enquiries: [email protected]
Begbroke (enquiries): [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 283 700
Business Development (Biomedical Research Centre): [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 572 759
Business Development (Maths, Physical and Life Sciences): [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 283 797
Business Development (Medical Sciences): [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 572 217
Business Development (Humanities): [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 615 362
Business Development (Social Sciences): [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 614 871
Careers Service: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0)1865 274 663
Conference Venues: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 276 190
Consulting: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 280 829
Consulting (student): [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 274 646
Continuing Education: [email protected] Tel +44 (0) 1865 270 360
Culham Science Centre: [email protected] Tel +44 (0)1235 528 822
Entrepreneurship Centre at the Saїd Business School: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0)1865 288 845
Equipment (Physics): [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 283 643
Events: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 276 190
Events at Begbroke: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 283 700
Executive Development: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 422 888
Harwell Campus: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0 ) 1235 250 091
Humanities Business and Partnerships: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 615 362
Industrial and Applied Mathematics (OCIAM): [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 273 525
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships and Secondments: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 283 797
License technology: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 280 830
Materials Characterisation Services: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 283 726
Mathematics Study Group: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 273 525
Maths, Physical and Life Sciences Impact & Innovation: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 283 833
Medical Sciences Business Partnerships: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 572 217
Mentor or Coach: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 274 646
Museum and collections consultancy: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 274 646
Oxford Science Park: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 784000
Physics Knowledge Exchange: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 283 006
Policy Engagement: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 270 401
Recruit: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0)1865 274 663
Social Sciences Business and Partnerships: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 614 871
Startup Incubator: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 280 830
Smith School Executive Education: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 614 963
Statistical Consultancy: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 281 279
Student Consultancy: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 274 646
Technology Transfer: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 280 830
Venues: [email protected] Tel: +44 (0) 1865 276 190
For a general discussion about how you can work with the University of Oxford please email [email protected]

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/support-researchers/researcher-hub:
We are here to support all researchers on fixed-term research or teaching contracts at Oxford.
Our activities will also benefit academic and professional service colleagues in their work with fixed-term researchers.
Our aim is to help you: settle in comfortably; make connections; grow as a person; extend your research expertise; approach your next career step with confidence.
Oxford is rich in opportunities, once you know how to find them!

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/support-researchers/connecting-other-researchers:
Making connections with other researchers, whether professionally or socially, is an invaluable opportunity while at Oxford; but it may not be easy if you're working on your own, or just within your group, focusing on your specific area of research.
The University offers a range of mechanisms to help you make these connections both within and outside your department.
Researcher-specific networks
Other Oxford networks
There are other networks that provide links beyond the research community, such as:
Oxford Events

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/support-researchers/research-funding:
We have a wealth of information at Oxford to help researchers and research support staff to find funding, assist with the application process, and manage resulting research awards.
Research Professional Research Professional holds details of thousands of research funding opportunities as well as tips on targeting funders, advice for early career researchers and research policy news.
It is free to use for everyone at Oxford.
To make the most of Research Professional see our training and guidance .
Check our websites for internal funding opportunities, coordinated University bids, EC and GCRF/ODA funding (see right for quick links).
Research process overview Are you new to the research funding process at Oxford?
Start with our research process chart for an overview of what you need to consider as part of your research funding application.
This includes research governance and ethics approval requirements, how to cost and price your project, and the need for research contracts or agreements.
Check our websites for details of the application process at Oxford and funder/scheme guidance.
Check our websites for information on financial project management (start with the summary for PIs – SSO required ), reporting to funders, data management and open access requirements.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/support-researchers/research-practice:
A priority of the University Research Culture Programme
Research Practice Guidance
Research Practice Training Modules
Open Research
Policy on Generative AI in Research
The University of Oxford enables ambitious research of exceptional quality.
Accordingly, and in line with its Strategic Plan (2018–2024), the University supports the research community to conduct research and innovation activities with rigour, transparency, and respect.
Researchers at Oxford, regardless of career stage or job role, will benefit from policies, guidance, and training to apply the highest standards of practice when planning, designing, conducting, recording, reporting, and sharing their research findings, conclusions and any underpinning data, sources or materials.
This approach aligns with the expectations and commitments of various national and international Concordats, sector agreements, and cross-sector norms (such as the Concordat to Support Research Integrity , the Concordat on Open Research Data and the FAIR Principles for data management ), and by research funders, professional societies, regulators and publishers.
The University acknowledges that good practice in research is constantly evolving, that the relevance of some practices may vary across disciplines, and that new tools and models are emerging in how research findings are published, disseminated, and evaluated, and in how contributions are acknowledged and recognised.
Researchers are encouraged to embrace these innovations to enhance the visibility of, and trust in, their research.
The University will regularly review its policies, guidance, and training to reflect such developments.
Research Practice is a priority of the broader Research Culture Programme , and this programme is supported by the Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research).
The work for this priority is coordinated by the Research Practice Subcommittee , co-chaired by Professor Susanna-Assunta Sansone , the Academic Lead for Research Culture (Research Practice), and Dr Tanita Casci , Director, Research Strategy and Policy Unit.
Research Practice includes the following topics:
Research Practice Guidance page
Email us: [email protected]
Sarah Callaghan - Research Practice Manager
Mónica Palmero Fernández - Research Practice Coordinator
Research Practice Sub Committee

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/support-researchers/research-culture-oxford:
Oxford’s research culture programme is led by Professor Patrick Grant , Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research).
Oxford’s research culture is united around three interconnected priorities:
Through these priorities what’s good for research will be aligned with what’s good for research careers by creating an environment in which rigorous practices and diversity — of views, skills, and contributions — are valued and count towards career progression.
Professor Patrick Grant, Pro-Vice Chancellor for Research, works in partnership with dedicated Academic Leads and with the wider research leadership of divisions, departments, and faculties.
The institutional culture programme is overseen by the University’s Research and Innovation Committee, and is delivered by a team of academic and professional services colleagues .
"The reputation and impact of our research depends on creative people working together, united by a commitment to rigour and openness, and by an enthusiasm to support each other’s future success.
Our people make our environment."
- Professor Patrick Grant, Pro-Vice Chancellor for Research

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/support-researchers/information-and-data-services:
Research information and data services, and training information
Research information management service (Symplectic Elements) – a collection of online tools that help researchers at the University to record and review research activity held in personal user accounts on a secure central server
Sustainable Digital Scholarship – a research data management service, helping projects and researchers at Oxford to store, publish and preserve their research data outputs

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/support-researchers/career-planning:
It is never too early, or too late, to start planning your career.
As fixed term researchers or teaching staff (grade 6-8) you have full access to Oxford’s Careers Service during your contract period and for one year afterwards.
We have a range of specialist services available to support you.
The Careers Service website contains a wealth of resources on our pages exclusively for researchers , with an extensive range of tips whether you are looking to explore local opportunities , or find ways to boost your employability .
Extensive guidance on networking, CVs, applications, interview skills and much more, is also available on www.careers.ox.ac.uk .
It is quite common for researchers at Oxford to experience setbacks, then feel uncertain or anxious about progressing in academia, or indeed more broadly.
The Careers Service led a collaboration with PhD students, postdocs and established academics to produce a workbook and five podcasts to help researchers understand what can trigger a sense of academic failure and how to overcome this.
Researchers move on to a wide range of exciting roles within and beyond academia.
Get some ideas by browsing our expanding database on research-careers.org to get a flavour of what they enjoy in their new roles and how they made the transition.
And if there’s a sector you’d like to explore, get in touch with the team of Oxford researchers running this resource via [email protected] .
Careers workshops and events designed for researchers run throughout the year.
These cover career management, exploring your transferable skills and potential options, writing effective CVs and cover letters, and how to shine in an interview.
Insight events include discussions with academics plus people who have transitioned from academic research into a variety of sectors.
Sessions take place at the Careers Service and periodically in other University buildings
To see the full range of events and make a booking, go to CareerConnect ; if you do not have a CareerConnect account, find out about how to gain access .
The annual Careers Conference for Researchers , offers an excellent opportunity to talk to employers who recruit highly skilled researchers, listen to former researchers speak about the experience of moving beyond academia and brush up your key employability skills.
Book your place via CareerConnect.
You will gain many valuable and transferable skills in your role here at Oxford.
At the same time, you may want to bolster other skills such as leadership, teamwork or commercial awareness.
The Careers Service runs a bespoke schedule of career development events for Oxford researchers.
Researchers are also invited to explore the opportunities available through the Researcher Hub and the Centre for Teaching & Learning .
Opening hours:
Monday-Wednesday, Friday: 9am – 5pm; Thursday, 10am – 5pm (10am-7pm  in Michaelmas term).
Book an appointment
Telephone: 01865 274646 Email: [email protected] In person: 56 Banbury Road, Oxford, OX2 6PA Follow us: facebook.com/OxfordCareers and twitter.com/OxfordCareers

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/support-researchers/teaching-and-supervision:
Even though you’re employed for the purpose of research, you may be interested in teaching and supervising.
It can sometimes be difficult for researchers to find the opportunities - but they are out there so it is worth being proactive in seeking them out and being flexible about what sort of experience you gain.
The PLTO is a short introductory course to teaching at the University.
It is tailored to local requirements and run by departments, faculties and divisions.
It is intended for DPhil or postdoctoral researchers who wish to start teaching at Oxford.
College staff are welcome to apply.
For more information visit the Centre for Teaching and Learning's Preparation for Learning and Teaching at Oxford's webpage (SSO required).
The Centre for Teaching and Learning runs accredited programmes to support teaching and learning support staff at Oxford.
To receive programme information, including application deadlines, sign up to the Centre for Teaching and Learning’s mailing list .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/using-research-engage/public-engagement:
From Britain’s first public museum, the Ashmolean , to Katherine Rundell’s Baillie Gifford Prize for Non-Fiction 2022 , the 2023 Reith Lectures by Professor Ben Ansell on ‘Our Democratic Future’ and Royal Institution Christmas Lectures by Professor Mike Wooldridge on artificial intelligence, the University has a long history of engaging the public with its research.
We want our research to make a difference in the world, changing people’s lives.
Our research should not be imposed on those who are affected by it.
Instead, we should listen to their perspectives and, wherever appropriate, co-create our research.
If you think your research might be relevant to policy, you could explore the Oxford Policy Engagement Network (OPEN) .
If your research might be relevant to businesses, you could explore Oxford University Innovation (OUI) and Oxford Social Enterprise Partnership (OSEP) .
If it’s not one of these, you could explore other opportunities to engage with those outside the University.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/using-research-engage/policy-engagement:
Policy engagement is an umbrella term describing the various ways in which research and policy professionals connect and collaborate in the public interest.
From informal enquiries to formal inquiries, in consultation or sustained collaboration, policy engagement enables researchers and policymakers to improve public policy through making the most of their evidence, expertise and experience.
Find out how you can get involved.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/using-research-engage/spinout-review-statement-best-practice-adoption:
The University of Oxford has adopted best practice approaches which align with the recommendations of the independent review of university spin-out companies.
The University of Oxford welcomed the independent review of university spin-out companies , commissioned by the Government and co-chaired by our Vice-Chancellor.
As an active member of TenU the University of Oxford partnered with top universities and investors to agree terms which will greatly increase the UK's capacity to turn world-leading research into spinouts that will generate economic growth and societal impact.
Answering many of the questions set out in the Government's independent review of university spin-out companies, The USIT Guide establishes a suite of standards drawing on best practices from around the world, including notable successes like Oxford Nanopore Technologies from Oxford.
The USIT for Software Guide will also be implemented pending approval from our Intellectual Property Advisory Group .
Further responses to the review are available on Oxford University Innovation's website.
Implemented in 2021 the policy sets the founding equity share in spinout companies at 80% for the founding team and 20% for the University in nearly all cases, before any investment is raised and with no anti-dilution protections.
There are some conditions under which the split will be 90% for the founding team and 10% for the University.
More details including FAQs are available at Equity sharing | Research Support (ox.ac.uk)
This represents a standardised approach for licensing IP to new spinout companies on their formation, designed to support the thriving spinout ecosystem with simple licence terms and streamlined process.
It ensures that financial returns to the inventors and University align directly with the returns to investors and commercial success of the companies formed, while giving maximum opportunity for the companies to thrive.
More details are available at Investment opportunities - Oxford University Innovation

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/recognition/REF2021:
The UK Funding Bodies have published the outcomes of the recent national research assessment exercise, the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021.
The REF 2021 results show Oxford’s submission had the highest volume of world-leading research.
[1]
The University of Oxford made the largest submission of any Higher Education Institution (HEI) in the UK, submitting over 3,600 researchers (3,405 full time equivalent) into 29 subject areas, over 8,500 research outputs in a range of formats from journal articles to compositions, and 220 case studies about the impact of Oxford research beyond academia.
Professor Louise Richardson, Vice-Chancellor at the University of Oxford, said:
‘The REF 2021 results demonstrate once again that Oxford is a research powerhouse.
The impact case studies highlight our effectiveness in putting this research in service to society by making critical contributions to global health, economic prosperity and cultural life.’
‘The REF is one of the few opportunities to see the remarkable breadth of our research and to draw together all parts of the collegiate University in a single collaborative effort, I would like to thank everyone involved for their contribution.’
Professor Patrick Grant, Pro-Vice Chancellor for Research at the University of Oxford said:
‘The publication of the REF 2021 results marks the culmination of the work done by staff across the University, especially in the past two years or so.
Thank you to everyone involved in the submission — both those who, in a variety of ways, led and supported our research and impact activities, and also the many colleagues who coordinated the submission itself.’
‘We are pleased to have submitted work from researchers at a variety of career stages and from across the Collegiate university, thus giving us the opportunity to showcase the depth and breadth of our research.
Our submission also shows how through our collaborations with external partners our research is used to benefit society, across the UK and around the world.’
View the full Oxford REF results here .
[1] Largest volume of world-leading research is calculated from the sum of (overall %4* x submitted FTE) across all submissions.
Full results are available at: www.ref.ac.uk
Cataloguing the work of British composer, Frederick Delius, and engaging with audiences has increased knowledge and understanding of his music and the process of composition.
Trials of a new typhoid vaccine led to World Health Organisation approval, with the vaccine now administered to children in areas of high disease burden in the developing world.
Research into the inadequate servicing of local water pumps in sub-Saharan Africa has led to changes to practice, technology and policy in the provision of water services in rural Kenya and currently offers secure drinking water to over 82,000 rural Kenyans.
Oxford research on the the active removal of greenhouse gases from the atmosphere, and their storage, has informed UK goverment policy and investments to mitigate climate change.
Examining the Jewish and antisemitic histories of major properties in Britain in partnership with the National Trust, has influenced curatorial and management practices, as well as public understanding.
Implementation of malaria control programmes has achieved near elimination of the disease in the Thailand-Myanmar border area.
The AnnieMOORE TM Software developed by an international team is helping to resettle refugees in communities where they are more likely to flourish.
Oxford spin-out company Oxford Nanopore Technologies' inexpensive, fast, portable, nanopore-based direct DNA and RNA sequencing has been widely used for sequencing of viruses in public health emergencies.
An online project to document all coinage used in the Roman Empire between 30 BC and AD 400, has facilitated collaboration, changed curation practices, and supported teaching in Europe and beyond.
Investigating the effects of existing drugs on COVID-19 led to the discovery of the first effective treatment to reduce deaths caused by the disease, and has since gone on to establish three more, saving millions of lives world-wide.
A global effort to develop the world’s first suite of open-access parenting programmes to end violence against children is estimated to have prevented over 80,000 cases of severe abuse.
Establishment of the ‘global carbon budget’ - a limited cumulative amount of CO 2 that can be emitted before global average temperatures rise above a target threshold - has led to wide-reaching change in climate policy.
Promoting the teaching of Latin and Ancient Greek at primary and early secondary level has demonstrated that classical language learning can be used as a tool to support literacy progress.
Modelling of the impact of health-related food taxation policies in reducing obesity and boosting health has influenced policy in Mexico, Ireland, and the UK.
Investigating age-specific patterns of COVID-19 mortality ‘hotspots’ of infection and healthcare supply, support bubble formation, face coverings, and vaccine deployment has shaped policy-making in response to the pandemic, both in the UK and abroad.
The Zooniverse citizen science platform has engaged over 2 million volunteers on its projects, which have led to improved disaster relief response, changes to environmental policy, and enhanced teaching in schools.
Research on compassion and the values of healthcare organisations aims to support doctors’ satisfaction in their profession and promote innovative, high quality healthcare for patients.
New approaches using Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy (MBCT) are being used to treat and prevent depression for millions of people around the world.
Initiatives are improving integration of migrants in major cities in the UK and across Europe through improvement of provisions for homeless migrants, new initiatives to support language provision, the provision of immigration advice, and programmes to support employment for refugees and asylum seekers.
Mathematical models for the filtration of contaminants flowing through porous media have assisted in mitigation of arsenic poisoning in communities living in the Ganges–Brahmaputra Delta in India.
An exhibition documenting the lives of people with life-limiting and chronic health conditions improved awareness of health diversity, attracting over 800 visitors a day.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/recognition/knowledge-exchange-framework-kef:
The University of Oxford is the world’s oldest English-speaking university, has been at the forefront of research, scholarship and innovation for over 850 years and is today a vibrant hub of internationally-leading work spanning all aspects of science, medicine, the social sciences and humanities.
Our mission is the advancement of learning by teaching and research, and its dissemination by every means; and our goal is to make a difference at all scales, from the local to the global, influencing technology, policy and culture for the benefit of society.
We aim to excel in every knowledge exchange and innovation mechanism to deliver these goals, including activities measured by the KEF metrics and beyond.
This page contains supporting links and further information on the strategies, support, activities and outcomes described in the University of Oxford's KEF narrative submissions.
The full narratives are published by Research England and are available through the KEF dashboard .
Details of relevant initiatives started after the KEF narrative submission will be added here in due course.
Oxford University contributes to Local Growth and Regeneration (LGR) through working in partnership with regional, pan-regional, national , and global stakeholders.
Together , we co-develop strategies that address regional needs, identify activities and opportunities for soci o - economic gain, and we deliver tangible results .
Our r esearchers, students, and professional staff work with regional partners developing activities e.g.
advancing Net - Zero , increasing innovation space , commercialising research, strategy development, entrepreneurship, and identifying funding for i nclusive growth .
We also create and invest in spin-out / start-up s which create jobs and attract investment .
We are accelerating the pace at which we deliver these activities to expand the impact in the Oxfordshire i nnovation ecosystem .
Therefore, ‘Region and Place’ is a key theme in our Knowledge Exchange Strategy .
The University of Oxford’s mission is to facilitate excellence in research, teaching, engagement and innovation to realise beneficial outcomes for society at a local, regional, national and global scale.
The University has an outstanding reputation for its research and teaching and our aim is also to become a leader in engagement.
Core to our approach is partnership working between the University’s Academic Divisions ; Research Services ; Gardens, Libraries and Museums ; and external organisations to support staff and students to value, lead and participate in public and community engagement.
We provi d e engagement opportunities, funding, enabling reward and recognition, training , and fostering networks and partnerships.
T here is a flourishing ongoing programme of high-quality and impactful public and community engagement.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/recognition/vice-chancellors-innovation-engagement-awards:
Making a difference through research
We encourage colleagues across the university to enter the Vice-Chancellor’s Awards 2025.
The awards recognise the achievements and celebrate success across the collegiate University, from academics and researchers to professional, technical and support staff.
The winners will be announced at a special ceremony hosted by the Vice-Chancellor at the Sheldonian Theatre in May.
Nominations will close at noon on Monday 3 February 2025.
Find out more on the Vice-Chancellor’s Awards page .
This page references the nominees and winners of previous Vice-Chancellor’s Innovation & Engagement Awards.
As of 2024, these are now part of the University-wide Vice-Chancellor’s Awards.
Department of Psychiatry
A community and stakeholder-led mental health awareness campaign in Kilifi, Kenya.
The Difu Simo project is the first large-scale mental health awareness campaign in Kilifi County (Kenya) and was established in September 2019.
Difu Simo is a phrase in the local Kigiryama language which means “Breaking free”.
The project collaborates with community stakeholders through participatory action research to understand mental health from a community perspective and develop culturally relevant anti-stigma interventions.
The campaign is a collaboration between the Kenya Medical Research Institute (KEMRI) Wellcome Trust Research Programme, Documentary Institute of Eastern Africa, Malindi District Cultural Association, community members with lived experience of mental, neurological and substance use disorders (MNSDs), and the County Government of Kilifi.
People with MNSDs often face challenges such as stigma and discrimination because of the perceived negative beliefs about the causes, symptoms, and management of their problems.
Stigma has a significant impact on their quality of life and influences the decision to seek care and adhere to treatment among people with these disorders.
In Kilifi County, while there is evidence of a significant burden of mental and neurological disorders, the state of mental health services, advocacy, and awareness interventions are limited and do not directly target or involve local communities within the region.
The idea to initiate a community and stakeholder-led mental health awareness campaign in Kilifi was inspired by the lived experience of Mr Changawa, a 52-year-old man with schizophrenia, who lived half of his life in chains because of the stigma associated with the mental health condition.
Changawa’s case, which is shared through the Man in Chains documentary on the Difu Simo project website, culminated in the formation of the project to raise awareness of mental and neurological disorders and address the stigma which is prevalent in the rural area of Kilifi Kenya.
The project is currently conducted within the Epilepsy Pathway Innovation in Africa (EPInA) research project, which is funded by the National Institute of Health (NIHR).
One of the aims of the NIHR is the use of innovative approaches to increase knowledge about epilepsy in the community.
Project Team:
Mary Bitta (Project Lead), Department of Psychiatry.
Judy Baariu, KEMRI-Wellcome Trust.
Key funders: National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR), Wellcome Trust.
Faculty of English
TRACTION is a pioneering online platform which equips teachers to engage with issues of race, belonging, empire, and migration in the classroom.
Developed by an interdisciplinary Arts and Humanities team, it is a unique new resource for secondary educators and education across the UK and beyond.
What does it mean to belong?
Who belongs, and who doesn’t?
From matters of race to immigration, to our historical understanding of empire, these issues have been a global topic of discussion in recent years.
Difficult and challenging, they have put our collective understanding of history and culture under pressure.
This, however, is nothing new: the Macpherson report (1997), published after the inquiry into the murder of 18-year-old Stephen Lawrence, noted that the place to challenge racism and build belonging was the national curriculum.
Yet even in 2021, the ‘Lit in Colour’ report (Elliott et al.) found that only 12% of secondary and 13% of primary teachers in England had received training on talking about such topics in the classroom.
The TRACTION team’s response to this challenge draws on their years of experience in this area.
TRACTION is the first online platform to provide teachers with the support and training they need to negotiate that difficult terrain, equipping them with cutting-edge research that they can use to enrich and extend their current teaching.
Focussed in the first instance on self-directed professional development for English and History teachers, the TRACTION Teaching Toolkit is a modular, out-of-the-box solution.
Its three interdisciplinary modules, created by researchers and education experts at the University of Oxford, take teachers through research across the historical timeline from the 16th century up to the present day, while an additional module supports that specialist knowledge with practical, solidly embedded educational theory and pedagogy.
In addition, the Toolkit is supplemented by community-building facilities that allow teachers not only to connect with specialist researchers, but also to model best practices and share resources directly with each other, wherever they are in their journey.
Professor Nandini Das (Project Lead), Lennon Wendy; Faculty of English.
Dr Jason Todd, Department of Education.
Key Funders: European Research Council, Runnymede Trust.
Link for more information: http://www.tideproject.uk/research/announcing-traction-teaching-race-belonging-empire-and-migration/
Oxford Martin School
LEAP (Livestock, Environment and People).
LEAP (Livestock, Environment and People) is an inter-disciplinary project that investigates the impacts of producing and consuming meat and dairy on health and the environment.
In 2021, the team launched two major public engagement projects, Meat Your Persona and Meat the Future, in order to open up conversations with the public and connect research to a broad range of audiences.
We are facing a climate crisis.
The food system contributes 25-30% to global greenhouse gas emissions, of which emissions produced by livestock account for c.
80%.
Meanwhile, poor diets are one of the leading avoidable causes of ill-health.
However, public understanding and mobilisation for dietary change to tackle these challenges are lacking.
Meat Your Persona empowered the public with accessible, research-based information and tools about the health and environmental impacts of meat consumption.
Working with The Liminal Space, a creative design agency, the team built a touring installation in a bright yellow horsebox to take LEAP research to six cities (Cardiff, Leeds, Newcastle, Blackpool, Redcar, Glasgow).
This included a quiz, take-away cards containing key facts to fit with your ‘meat persona’, and plant-based recipe cards.
This stimulated visitors to discuss food and planetary health with researchers and locally recruited staff, to gain insight into our findings and, ultimately, to make better-informed choices about their diets.
Independent evaluation showed the project reached over 100,000 people, and 75% said they would talk to others about the experience.
Meat the Future, in collaboration with Oxford University Museum of Natural History, presented LEAP’s research in a thought-provoking exhibition about the societal challenges and choices we face.
Data was presented in a visually stimulating way, and visitors explored the environmental and health impacts of their own diets through digital interactives.
Between May 2021 and May 2022, it attracted more than 250,000 visitors, alongside a diverse programme of events engaging families, students, and local communities, which involved 35 researchers and reached over 4,800 people.
A new Eat the Future café at the Museum provided a largely vegetarian menu, implementing LEAP research by adopting innovative ‘eco-labels’.
Professor Susan Jebb (Project Lead), Lucy Yates; Primary Care Health Sciences.
Professor Paul Smith, Janet Stott; Oxford Museum of Natural History.
Amanda Gore, The Liminal Space.
Key Funders: International Food Policy Research Institute, Sainsbury’s, The Nature Conservancy, Wellcome Trust.
Link for more information: https://www.leap.ox.ac.uk/home
Faculty of Law
(Image credit: Lucy Klippan) This project supported lay and vulnerable users of online hearings by producing five public information films, now available on the HM Courts and Tribunals Service YouTube channel.
Produced in partnership with the court service, judiciary, advice sector and members of the public, the design focused on empathy, accessibility, and effective participation, while catering to diverse users.
The transition toward online hearings in courts and tribunals has raised a number of questions about how prepared the public is for this innovation.
Concerns have been raised that access to justice could be severely undermined as many users of the legal system may be ill-prepared, with limited equipment, bandwidth or skills required to engage effectively.
These concerns were tested during the pandemic when there was often no alternative but to conduct hearings online with participants appearing ‘in’ court from their homes.
The Supporting Online Justice Project was an evidence-based communication and design project.
It focused on how to best support lay users in online hearings by providing technical, legal, and emotional support to them in a series of open access, evidence-based films.
The project engaged in a cycle of consultation, research, and design.
This involved widespread engagement with national stakeholders; research on the legal process, design, and best practice; the production of prototypes; and their testing with lay and disadvantaged users of the justice system.
The project team worked closely with HM Courts and Tribunals Service (HMCTS) as project partners, as well as members of the Judiciary and the advice sector.
The five films were launched in March 2022 and are attracting an average of around 500 views a week.
Since the launch, the research team have been asked to produce a Scottish version of one of the films and a Makaton version for the Special Educational Needs and Disability Tribunal.
The team have also secured further funding to work with HMCTS to produce a suite of resources for the advice sector.
Professor Linda Mulcahy (Project Lead), Dr Anna Tsalapatanis, Nikki Macmichael, Rowen Siemans, Lara Maclachlan; Faculty of Law.
Dr Emma Rowden, Oxford Brookes University.
Alison Bergin, HM Courts and Tribunals Service.
Key Funders: HM Courts and Tribunals Service, UK Research and Innovation.
Link for more information: https://www.law.ox.ac.uk/supporting-online-justice
Department of Social Policy and Intervention
COVID-19 Parenting Emergency Response Between 2020-2021, the team rapidly developed and delivered evidence-informed COVID-19 parenting resources reaching more than 210 million families in 198 countries and territories.
These resources were translated into 114 languages and were included in the pandemic responses of 33 governments to prevent violence and improve wellbeing.
This is the first-time parenting information has been disseminated (and evaluated) at this scale, let alone during a crisis.
COVID-19 Parenting Emergency Response was based on rigorous research led by Dr Lachman, Professor Cluver and colleagues, who developed and tested the Parenting for Lifelong Health suite of in-person parenting programmes, which had been delivered to 300,000 families by the beginning of 2020.
COVID-19 brought a global challenge of unprecedented stress for families, through lockdowns, school closures and economic crisis, leading to sharply increased global rates of child abuse.
In March 2020, the team initiated a collaboration with WHO, UNICEF, the Global Partnership to End Violence Against Children, World Without Orphans, The Early Childhood Development Action Networks, Clowns Without Borders South Africa, and 240 local NGOs to convert in-person parenting programmes into parenting tip sheets, cartoon videos, TV and radio scripts, public service announcements, and social media messages.
To facilitate rapid adoption, the materials were open-source and freely available.
The team worked with governments, NGOs, and UN agencies to adapt and disseminate the resources for local settings, including national television in Pakistan, community radio broadcasts in Malawi, parenting hotlines in Montenegro, and food parcels in Nepal.
Disability-adapted versions were shared with the Special Olympics and reached refugee camps through UNODC and UNICEF.
This work has also laid the foundation for a successful proposal to the LEGO Foundation and Oak Foundation for the Global Parenting Initiative (GPI).
This exciting five-year initiative aims to innovate, evaluate, and accelerate the scale-up of human-digital parenting programmes in the Global South.
Dr Jamie Lachman (Project Lead), Professor Lucie Cluver, Dr Isang Awah, Amberley Barrington-Peek, Zuyi Fang, Louise Gordon, Dr Ohad Green, Susan Sentence, Saara Thakur, Dr Inge Wessels; Department of Social Policy and Intervention.
Slavica Gajdadzis-Knezhevikj, Professor Marija Raleva; Alternativa.
Professor Liane Alampay, Dr Rosanne Jocson, Bernice Mamauag, Jennel Reyes; Ateneo de Manila University.
Lauren Latona, Bard College.
Lindokuhle Ngcobo, Clowns Without Borders South Africa.
Nisso Nurova, Deloitte.
Sabine Rakotomalala, Global Partnership to End Violence Against Children.
Viorel Babii, Natalia Grandabour, Dr Lesco Galina; Health for Youth Association.
David Stern, IDEMS International.
Lara Breckon, Imperial College London.
Dr Jenny Doubt, Independent Research Consultant.
Brigitte De Hulsters, Lifecycle Consulting.
Koloina Kremer, Richemont International SA.
Rachel Machefsky, The Behavioural Insights Team.
Shekufeh Zonji, The Ealy Childhood Development Action Networks.
Stephen Blight, UNICEF.
Ivo Kunovski, University Clinic of Psychiatry.
Helen Mebrahtu, Kasonde Mwaba, Professor Lorraine Sherr; University College London.
Nicole Chetty, Dr Kufre Okop, Professor Catherine Ward; University of Cape Town.
Dr Alison Swartz, University of Cape Town & University of Essex.
Dr Alexander Butchart, World Health Organisation.
Phil Green, World Without Orphans.
Key Funders: LEGO Foundation, Oak Foundation, UKRI GCRF / Newton Fund, The Human Safety Net, UKRI Accelerating Achievement for Africa’s Adolescents (Accelerate) Hub, University of Oxford’s COVID-19 Response Fund.
Link for more information: https://covid19parenting.com/
Nuffield Department of Population Health; Nuffield Department of Medicine
Randomised Evaluation of COVID-19 Therapy (RECOVERY) Trial.
The Randomised Evaluation of COVID-19 Therapy (RECOVERY) Trial is the world’s largest study investigating potential COVID-19 treatments.
Since launching in March 2020, the study has discovered four effective COVID-19 treatments, recruited over 48,000 participants, and expanded to six overseas countries.
RECOVERY’s successes have transformed patient care, saved countless lives worldwide, and helped enable us to resume near-normal lives.
In March 2020, it was clear that a severe wave of COVID-19 was about to hit the UK.
With no known treatments for this new disease, healthcare services were bracing themselves for a sudden influx of hospitalisations.
However, there was a chance that existing drug treatments may be effective against COVID-19.
A diverse team with expertise in clinical trial management and infectious diseases involving Oxford Population Health and the Nuffield Department of Medicine at Oxford University rapidly assembled, supporting a proposal to integrate a randomised controlled trial within the NHS to systematically test potential treatments for patients hospitalised with COVID-19.
RECOVERY recruited participants at an astonishing rate – 1,000 within the first two weeks, and 10,000 within the first two months.
This led to the world’s first COVID-19 breakthrough after just three months: the steroid dexamethasone, which reduced deaths by up to a third for critically ill patients.
The discovery was immediately adopted into clinical guidelines worldwide and has been estimated to have saved over a million lives.
Since then, RECOVERY has discovered three additional COVID-19 treatments, besides proving six potential treatments to be ineffective against COVID-19.
To date, RECOVERY has recruited over 48,000 participants and continues to investigate potential treatments which could protect against new coronavirus variants.
Professor Sir Martin Landray (Project Lead), Graham Bagley, Richard Brown, Wojciech Brudlo, Sheena Camerson, Dr Mark Campbell, Andrea Cradduck-Bamford, Charlie Crichton, Professor Jonathan Emberson, Hannah Freeman, Raph Goldacre, Bob Goodenough, Professor Richard Haynes, Sarah Howard, Andy King, Professor Marian Knight, Dr Michael Lay, Professor Marion Mafham, David Murray, Sohmal Musini, Dr Guilherme Pessoa-Amorim, Dr Leon Peto, Kate Sawyer, Dr Natalie Staplin, Dr William Stevens,Karen Taylor, Karl Wallendszus, Richard Welsh, Anne Whitehouse, Sophia Wilkinson, Dr Caroline Wood; Nuffield Department of Population Health.
Professor Sir Peter Horby (Project Lead), Emmanuelle Denis; Nuffield Department of Medicine
Key Funders: National Institute for Health and Care Research, UK Research and Innovation, Wellcome Trust.
Link for more information: https://www.recoverytrial.net/
Blavatnik School of Government
Distribute of emergency relief.
When COVID-19 lockdowns in South Africa led to devastating spikes in poverty and unemployment, the team provided the government with evidence-based recommendations for designing emergency relief.
Based on this advice, the government implemented far-reaching welfare reforms, providing cash grants to the destitute and unemployed.
In March 2020, South Africa implemented a strict COVID-19 lockdown, leading to three million people losing their jobs.
In 2019, before the pandemic hit, 29.1% of adults in the country were already unemployed and 1 in 10 South Africans were going to bed hungry.
This spiked to 1 in 5 people in April 2020: at that point, the government had yet to provide any emergency relief.
Efforts to distribute food parcels to the destitute began in April 2020, but the government struggled to implement this emergency relief at scale.
Between April and July, only 1.2 million food parcels were distributed, while 9.8 million households were unable to buy enough food to cover basic needs.
Using evidence from their research and other research worldwide, Dr Kate Orkin and her team identified three immediate ways in which welfare policy in South Africa could be updated to reduce hunger and poverty during lockdown: cash grants paid via mobile phone instead of food parcels, unemployed benefits, and reduced paperwork.
During 2020 and 2021, the South African presidency commissioned her to make evidence-based recommendations.
She formed a team of economists from the University of Oxford, the University of Cape Town and Duke University, who produced evidence review papers and simulated the impact of policy options for emergency relief.
Combined with other expert recommendations and civil society pressure, their recommendations led to major policy changes.
Together, the team’s recommendations influenced spending of ZAR 97.5bn (GBP 4.87bn) which reached 28.5 million people in need.
Independent analysis estimates the measures led to 5.5 million fewer people facing food poverty between April and June 2020.
Dr Kate Orkin (Project Lead), Marta Grabowska, Desmond Fairall, Alice Cahill; Blavatnik School of Government.
Brynde Kreft, Department of Economics.
Dr Robert Garlick, Ignacio Rodriguez Hurtado; Duke University.
Dr Yasmine Bekkouche, World Bank.
Dr Neil Rankin, Stellenbosch University.
Wim Louw, Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab.
Saul Musker, Private Office of the President, Republic of South Africa.
Key Funders: UK Research and Innovation, Government of South Africa.
Link for more information: https://www.bsg.ox.ac.uk/research/research-and-policy-updates/getting-cash-based-poverty-relief-poorest-quickly-during-covid
Oxford Vaccine Group and Jenner Institute
COVID-19 vacine.
The COVID-19 pandemic has had a devastating impact on human health, normal social interaction, education and economies.
To fight back against the virus, the Oxford Vaccine Group developed the Oxford COVID-19 vaccine, which has now been used in 180 countries, with 2.8 billion doses distributed worldwide.
Our vaccine, used not-for-profit, has defended lives across the planet, protecting millions from severe disease.
In January 2020, the initial innovation was the construction of a vaccine to prevent pneumonia caused by a novel coronavirus which had been detected in Wuhan, hoping to help in controlling a local outbreak.
However, as the global threat became apparent, the project changed into a novel innovative vaccine development programme, which proceeded at unprecedented speed and scale.
The multidisciplinary team brought together biologists to make and test the vaccine in the laboratory, experts in manufacturing to produce a high-quality product, and clinical trialists to test it in 24,000 volunteers.
The first volunteer was vaccinated on 23 April 2020.
The initial studies showed immune responses, which were like those that were protective in animals, and similar immunity across all ages, including those at most risk.
The next step in clinical development was international, representing both high-income and low and middle income populations, so that the team could prove the vaccine worked in geographically, ethnically and socially diverse populations.
The authorisation of the vaccine by MHRA on 30 December 2020 allowed vaccination to be launched and administered in the UK.
With approval by the EMA at the end of January and endorsement by WHO in early February, the vaccine was distributed at scale globally, including as the major supplier through Covax to low-income countries from the Korean and Indian manufacturing sites.
An innovative close partnership with AstraZeneca ensured that the vaccine was manufactured around the world at over 20 international sites, defending local supply chains and ensuring more equitable access.
The project was the biggest engagement programme ever undertaken by the University’s public affairs team with 50 proactive stories, 40 press conferences, and 60 breaking reactive stories.
Professor Sir Andrew Pollard (Project Lead), Professor Sue Costa Clemens, Shaka Obhiozele, Hannah Robinson, Emma Plested, Yama Mujadidi, Dr Maheshi Ramasamy, Dr Sagida Bibi, Katherine Emary, Dr Rinn Song, Natalie Marchevsky, Dr Xinxue Liu, Dr Merryn Voysey, Professor Matthew Snape, Louise Bates, Dr Elizabeth Clutterbuck, Simon Kerridge, Dr Parvinder Aley, Sarah Kelly; Department of Paediatrics.
Dr Marion Watson, Dr Daniel Jenkin, Dr Alison Lawrie, Dr Amy Flaxman, Ian Poulton, Dr Paola Cicconi, Dr Pedro Folegatti, Professor Katie Ewer, Professor Adrian Hill, Professor Dame Sarah Gilbert, Professor Teresa Lambe; The Jenner Institute.
James Colman, Alexander Buxton; Public Affairs Directorate.
Professor John Bell, Professor Gavin Screaton; Medical Sciences Division.
Professor Catherine Green, Dr Carina Joe, Professor Brian Angus, Dr Alexander Douglas, Dr Angela Minassian; Nuffield Department of Medicine.
Heather House, University Administration and Services.
Sarah Pelling-Deeves, Research Services.
Dr Nisha Singh, Department of Psychiatry.
Dr Adam Ritchie, Blavatnik School of Government.
Professor Shabir Madhi, University of the Witwatersrand.
Key Funders: UK Research and Innovation, National Institute for Health and Care Research, Oxford Biomedical Research Centre, Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences Innovation Fund for Medical Science, CSIROxbridge Consortium, AstraZeneca.
Link for more information: https://www.research.ox.ac.uk/area/coronavirus-research/vaccine
Department of Education
LanguageScreen is a mobile app that allows school staff to assess children’s language skills quickly and accurately.
It is based on extensive research into children’s language development.
LanguageScreen, together with two other apps from OxEd, allows education professionals to identify children who will benefit most from educational support.
Professor Charles Hulme (Project Lead), Dr Gillian West, Caroline Korrell, Sarah Hearne, Rachel Gardner, Rosanne Esposito; Department of Education.
Dr Mihaela Duta, Department of Computer Science.
Professor Margaret Snowling, Department of Experimental Psychology.
Chris Fellingham, Oxford University Innovation.
Dr Claudine Bowyer-Crane, National Institute for Economic and Social Research.
Dr Silke Fricke, University of Sheffield.
Key Funders: Nuffield Foundation, Department for Education.
Link for more information: https://oxedandassessment.com/
Pitt Rivers Museum
Radical Hope connects academic researchers, Indigenous experts, artists, and community members to international audiences.
One of the innovative aspects is that it pays non-academic experts a fee to ensure that no one is excluded from the conversations.
The in-event chats are always lively, allowing worldwide researchers to exchange ideas.
Since November 2020 there have been 26 events in the series.
Andrew McLellan (Project Lead), Beth McDougall, Jozie Kettle; Gardens Libraries and Museums.
Dr Lisandra Costiner, Faculty of History.
Abbey Palmer, Department of Education.
Key Funders: TORCH (The Oxford Research Centre in the Humanities), Clore Duffield Foundation, National Lottery.
Link for more information: https://www.prm.ox.ac.uk/radical-hope
Nuffield Department of Medicine; Nuffield Department of Population Health
The COVID-19 Infection Survey, a partnership between Oxford University and the Office for National Statistics, is the largest household survey of COVID-19 in the world.
By collecting samples from approximately 180,000 individuals every fortnight, this ‘gold-standard’ study provided accurate data to a wide range of policy-relevant questions relating to vaccination, infection, antibodies, long COVID, and behaviours.
Dr Koen Pouwels (Project Lead), Professor David Eyre, Jia Wei; Nuffield Department of Population Health.
Professor Sarah Walker, Emma Pritchard, Nuffield Department of Medicine.
Dr Karina-Doris Vihta, Department of Engineering Science
Key Funders: Office for National Statistics
Link for more information: https://www.ndm.ox.ac.uk/covid-19/covid-19-infection-survey
Nuffield Department of Population Health
‘after birth’ is a play that uses emotion, humour and drama to engage the public with maternal mental health – the product of a four-year collaboration between researchers, theatre-makers, and women with lived experience.
Gripping, life-affirming, funny, moving and uplifting, it aims to increase awareness, reduce stigma, encourage women to talk about their concerns and find support, ultimately, saving lives.
Professor Rachel Rowe (Project Lead), Professor Fiona Alderdice, Professor Marian Knight, Sophia Wilkinson; Nuffield Department of Population Health.
Dr Zena Forster, Maiden Moor Productions.
Dr Jess Heron, Action on postpartum psychosis.
Dr Rebecca Knowles-Bevis, Independent clinical psychologist.
Key Funders: Arts Council England, TORCH The Oxford Research Centre in the Humanties), Public Engagement with Research Seed Fund, North Wall Theatre’s Propeller 2020 Award, City University London, Sheila Kitzinger Programme at Green Templeton College.
Link for more information: https://www.torch.ox.ac.uk/after-birth-a-play-about-maternal-mental-health-2020-21
Oxford Internet Institute
There are tens of millions of digital platform workers over the world doing work via platforms or apps such as Uber, Deliveroo or Upwork.
However, many platform workers face low pay, precarity, and dangerous working conditions.
Fairwork evaluates the working conditions of digital platforms and ranks them on how well they do.
Fairwork’s goal is to show that better and fairer jobs are possible in the platform economy.
Professor Mark Graham (Project Lead), Nancy Salem, Dr Matthew Cole, Daniel Arubayi, Dr Callum Cant, Fabian Ferari, Dr Kelle Howson, David Sutcliffe, Robert Warin, Dr Funda Ustek-Spilda, Alessio Bertolini, Adam Badger, Callum Cant, Jonas Valente, Michelle Gardner, Murali Shanmugavelan, Navneet Gidda; Oxford Internet Institute.
Srujana Katta, Blavatnik School of Government.
Professor Richard Heeks, University of Manchester.
Key Funders: European Research Council, Economic and Social Research Council, the Ford Foundation, the German Development Ministry and Oxford University’s Impact Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council Acceleration Account Fund.
Link for more information: https://fair.work/
Project Partners: Jana Ababneh, Daniel Abs, Pablo Aguera Reneses, Iftikhar Ahmad, Gina Alaschkar , Maria Belen Albornoz, Luis Pablo Alonzo, Moritz Altenried, Oğuz Alyanak, Branka Andjelkovic , Thomas Anning-Dorson, Marcos Aragão, María Arnal, Arturo Arriagada, Daniel Arubayi , Tat Chor Au-Yeung, Ahmad Awad, Adam Badger, Marina Benedine, Ariane Berthoin Antal, Alessio Bertolini, Gautam Bhatia, Virgel Binghay, Richard Boateng, Manuela Bojadzijev, Macarena Bomhomme, Ameline Bordas, Maren Borkert, Álvaro Briales, Joseph Budu, Callum Cant, Rodrigo Carelli, Eduardo Carrillo, Chris King Chi Chan , Henry Chavez, Aradhana Cherupara Vadekkethil, Andrea Ciarini, Matthew Cole, Antonio Corasaniti, Pamela Custodio, Olayinka David-West, Nadia De Jesus, Luisa De Vita, Markieta Domecka, Marta D'Onofrio, Darcy du Toit, Veena Dubal, James Dunn-Willimason, Trevilliana Eka Putri, Nagham El Houssamy, Haya El Zayat, Batoul ElMehdar, Elisa Errico, Fabian Ferrari, Patrick Feuerstein, Roseli Figaro, Milena Franke, Sandra Fredman, Jackeline Gameleira, Pia Garavaglia, Beatriz Garcia, Chana Garcia, Michelle Gardner, Sharon Geeling, Navneet Gidda, Shikoh Gitau, Slobodan Golusin , Saúl Gomez, Mark Graham, Markus Griesser, Rafael Grohmann, Martin Gruber-Risak, Julieta Haidar, Khadiga Hassan, Richard Heeks, Mabel Rocío Hernández Díaz, Luis Jorge Hernández Flores, Victor Manuel Hernandez Lopez, Benjamin Herr, Kelle Howson, Francisco Ibáñez, Shahidul Islam, Tanja Jakobi, Athar Jameel , Hannah Johnston, Zeynep Karlidag, Lucas Katera, Mishal Khan, Maja Kovac, Martin Krzywdzinski, Amelinda Pandu Kusumaningtyas, Morad Kutkut, Arturo Lahera-Sánchez, Joy-Eveline Leeuw, Sebastian Lew, Jorge Leyton, Tatiana López Ayala, Bilahari Madhu, Raiyaan Mahbub, Amruta Mahuli, Melissa Malala, Oscar Javier Maldonado, Laura Clemencia Mantilla León, Claudia Marà, Paolo Marinaro, Ana Flavia Marques, Margreta Medina, Caterina Morbiato, Jamal Msami, Hilda Mwakatumbula, Baraka Mwaura, Mounika Neerukonda, Ana Negro, Sidra Nizambuddin, Thando Nkohla-Ramunenyiwa, Claudia Nociolini Rebechi, Kemi Ogunyemi, Caroline A Omware, Balaji Parthasarathy, Francesca Pasqualone, Obed Penu, Leonhard Plank, Valeria Pulignano, Jack Linchuan Qiu, Ananya Raihan, Antonio Ramírez, Juan-Carlos Revilla, Alberto Riesco-Sanz , Nabiyla Risfa Izzati, Nagla Rizk, Cheryll Ruth Soriano, Julice Salvagni , Derly Yohanna Sánchez Vargas, Maricarmen Sequera, Murali Shanmugavelan, Ruth Tarullyna Simanjuntak, André Sobczak, Shanza Sohail, Janaki Srinivasan, Anna Sting, Zuly Bibiana Suárez Morales , David Sutcliffe, Pradyumna Taduri, Kristin Thompson, Kiko Tovar, Pitso Tsibolane, Wing Yin Anna Tsui , Funda Ustek-Spilda, Jonas Valente, Jean-Paul Van Belle, Giulia Varaschin, Eduardo Vargas, Paola Vidriana, Laura Vogel, Jing Wang, Robbie Warin, Nadine Weheba
Vice-Chancellor’s Awards 2025
Vice-Chancellor's Public Engagement with Research Awards
Vice-Chancellor's Innovation Awards

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/recognition/oxford-summit:
At the latest Oxford Summit some of the brightest minds from the UK, North America and Europe, involved in building partnerships between universities, industry and government, came together to learn from the ground-breaking effort that characterised the COVID-19 pandemic response to drive the recovery.
The Summit highlighted what needs to be done to mobilise university-industry-government partnerships to develop solutions at the pace and scale necessary to tackle the big issues facing society today such as healthcare provision and the climate crisis.
Oxford Summit 2021 Report
Oxford Summit 2021 | University of Oxford Podcasts
Oxford Summit 2021 Programme
Oxford UIDP Summit 2019 Report
Oxford UIDP Summit 2019 | University of Oxford Podcasts

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/started-in-oxford:
University researchers have started over 140 spinout companies to date and the region's world-leading research institutions and science parks are busy too.
Discover just a few of the intriguing and amazing ideas #StartedinOxford…
Visit Storify to see Oxford at its most innovative and then tell us your own #StartedinOxford stories
Augmented reality might give those with poor vision a chance to see the world anew.
Imagine your organs living outside your body.
With this tech, could we put our trust in dragonflies to defend us?
Can laughter really change lives?
Blue maize that is small in size but big in nutritional promise.
How about taste testing wine without even opening the bottle?
How has Oxford tech made visual arts accessible to the blind with a new hands-on approach?
Soon we could have virtual reality as one of our five-a-day.
What if sound waves provided the answer to how we treat deadly tumours.
Could this make it possible to save lives from the comfort of your living room?
Is it possible to deliver life-saving stroke diagnosis in a matter of minutes?
Does the book you’re reading really reflect your relationship with food?
We could be close to knowing what a baby’s cry really means.
Can we bring our history up-to-date?
We’ve heard of silky smooth hair, but what about silky knees?
Where does your bike go when you aren’t using it?
What’s the most expensive thing you can buy on the planet?
Gold?
Diamonds?
Perfume?
This might look like a relatively ordinary scanner, but this new technology, from Oxford Multispectral, can do a lot more than just copy your documents.
Could a tiny hand-held device really help us discover new species?
How can one small bottle of liquid power four homes for a year?
That’s right, this tiny bit of futuristic looking tech is actually a mini-organ: a human liver on a chip.
Could playing a video game really save lives?
Could one paper-thin material really serve as heat-controlling window glazing, as well as being the future of lightweight, power-saving high-resolution screens?
75% of runners suffer injuries.
Could one piece of tech really prevent all of them?
Capturing the scent and flavour of a grapefruit is incredibly difficult and costly.
Can you 3D-print brand new organs?
How could your old phone help to save the environment?
Imagine if Siri understood every word you said, no matter how thick your accent, or how much you mumble.
Could any doctor really monitor a patient 24 hours a day?
Perhaps if it doesn’t need to sleep.
Are we getting closer to being driven around in robot cars?
We might finally be able to read clay tablets from the birth of written language.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/using-research-engage/policy-engagement/opportunities/oxfords-experience-policy-engagement:
Learn about some of their experiences and approaches here.
Researchers across the University collaborate with partners in national and local governments, and arms-length bodies; in national parliaments and devolved assemblies; in civil society; in the UK, and around the world, including in international organisations, expanding the range of options open to them, and helping ensure that their decisions reckon with the latest high-quality research.
This growing collection of Oxford researchers' experiences includes written and video case studies, as well as lessons learned.
Whether you’re a researcher or policymaker, we hope you’ll find these interesting and useful.
You can also watch our Researcher Stories video series here .
In this series researchers and their policy partners share what they have learned from working together.
For more information, including about the Oxford Policy Engagement Network , which connects more than 1,000 researchers and professional services staff who share a vision of public policy powered by the world’s best available research evidence and expertise, please contact the Policy Engagement Team .
In an era of rapid technological advancement, policymakers face the crucial task of anticipating techno-social trends in order to support technological innovation responsibly, sustainably, inclusively, and fairly.
My work with patients often involves the Mental Heath Act and my academic work is inspired by the need to develop more collaborative approaches with patients.
Opinions about the possible reintroduction of the Eurasian lynx to Scotland are extremely polarised.
Some people argue that reintroducing this large wild cat, which disappeared from Scotland hundreds of years ago, could help support biodiversity and promote ecosystem recovery.
Now (sort of) approaching retirement, Professor Eyre offers a unique perspective on the history of the environmental movement, at a time when it has gone mainstream.
When he commenced his interest, one of the great social issues of the day was the demand to keep coal mines open.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/using-research-engage/public-engagement/engaged-research:
Looking for inspiration?
Our public and community engagement projects at Oxford vary widely and connect with people locally, nationally, and internationally.
Here are a few stories to help you explore the ways public and community engagement with research can make a difference.
Dr Lennon Mhishi, with funding from Research England, convened artists, researchers, curators, and public participants.
They discussed objects from the Pitt Rivers Museum to re-think their contexts, use, labelling, and display.
Oxford University Museum of Natural History
The “Meat the Future” exhibition, developed with the LEAP project, showcased the effects of meat and dairy production.
It provided evidence and tools for decision-makers to promote sustainable diets.
The exhibition also included a roadshow to help people understand their meat-eating habits.
Victorian Light Night
The “Victorian Light Night” event, organised by The Oxford Research Centre in the Humanities (TORCH) and the Diseases of Modern Life project, featured a building projection and sound show at Oxford’s Radcliffe Infirmary.
It connected humanities research with families and young people, attracting 2,500 attendees.
Researchers and artists co-created a video projection focusing on Victorian concerns about technology and communication.
Professor Maria del Pilar Blanco, Medieval and Modern Languages Faculty
This project, led by Professor Maria del Pilar Blanco, brings together scholars from Oxford University, Oxford Brookes University, and Euton Daley of Unlock the Chains Theatre Collective.
It aims to reclaim Afro-Caribbean history in Oxford through performance, storytelling, and workshops.
The project includes live performances and a digital, interactive map.
Professor Chris Lintott, Dept of Physics, and many others
Zooniverse, an online citizen science platform established by Oxford researchers, involves millions in genuine research.
It has 98 active projects impacting various disciplines, from disaster response to discovering new exoplanets.
Professor Marina Jirotka, Dept of Computer Sciences
Led by Professor Marina Jirotka, this project co-produced a ‘fairness toolkit’ with young people to support their understanding of online environments.
It raised awareness among online providers about young users’ concerns and rights.
The group also developed responsible research and innovation practices for AI, big data, and robotics.
Professor Heidi Johansen-Berg’s group, Wellcome Centre for Integrative Neuroimaging
Professor Heidi Johansen-Berg’s group, funded by the Wellcome Enriching Engagement scheme, helps players improve their game and fans improve their lifestyle.
Neuroscience researchers and football enthusiasts learn from each other about how the brain impacts fitness and technique.
MORU Mahidol Oxford Tropical Medicine Research Unit
In rural Cambodia, traditional Khmer dramas were used to raise awareness about malaria.
These stories, using comedy and music, effectively conveyed messages about the disease to communities with lower literacy rates.
Professor Lucie Cluver, Dr Jamie Lachman, Dr Isang Awah et al, Dept of Social Policy and Intervention
The Global Parenting Initiative, led by Professor Lucie Cluver and colleagues, developed resources to reduce child abuse globally.
It reached 210 million people in 198 countries, providing resources in over 30 languages.
Prof Linda Mulcahy and Dr Anna Tsalapatanis (now UCL), Law Faculty
During the pandemic, many court hearings moved online, raising concerns about access to justice.
Researchers produced video guides to support people who are neurodiverse, sight or hearing impaired, colour vision deficient, differently abled, signers, and non-native English users.
They also created a design toolkit for community legal advice workers.
Professor Kam Bhiu and Dr Roisin Mooney, Psychiatry
Developing photovoice (creative photography based method) as a policy research tool and co-design systems to improve the experiences of those detained under the MHA and reduce ethnic inequalities of MHA use.
Professor Alex Betts, International Development
The Refugee Economies Programme , based at the University of Oxford, undertakes research on the economic lives of refugees.
Through primary data collection, they explore the conditions under which refugees can become self-sufficient and make positive economic contributions to their host states and societies.
They collect original qualitative and quantitative data, and often draw upon a range of participatory methods, including working with refugee researchers.
Dr Joanna Bullivant and Professor Samantha Dieckmann, Faculty of Music
This project explored diversity in classical music through collaboration between the Villiers Quartet, young people and researchers from the University of Oxford.
Young people interpreted existing music and also composed their own pieces, which were performed at a symposium.
Lennon Mhishi, Sociology/Pitt Rivers
The Decolonisation and Anti-Imperial Materialities Project at the Pitt Rivers Museum in Oxford involves artists and participatory research to rethink the museum's history and materials, aiming to open space for new histories.
Marina Jirotka, Computer Sciences
Developing Responsible Robots for the Digital Economy – involvement of publics as part of experiential research set up to explore a mock ‘accident investigation’ with the aim of creating an ‘ethical black box’ alongside other stakeholders.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/research-impact/impact-films:
The Oxford Impacts video series celebrates the ways that Oxford University benefits the world of policy, health, business and culture.
In this set of short videos leading academic researchers, across a range of subjects, talk about why their research matters to society and what they’ve learned through taking their research into the community.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2022-12-08-oxford-leads-nature-positive-universities-alliance-reverse-biodiversity-decline:
Today at the UN Biodiversity Conference (COP15), the University of Oxford and UN Environment Programme (UNEP) announced the launch of the Nature Positive Universities Alliance – a global network of universities that have made an official pledge to advance efforts to halt, prevent and reverse nature loss through addressing their own impacts and restoring ecosystems harmed by their activities.
This push is part of the UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration , a movement to avert climate catastrophe and mass extinction.
Universities already carry out environmental and conservation research to help inform government and company action, but by publicly tackling their own supply chains and operational impacts on nature, universities can help guide the wider community on a path to address the triple planetary crisis of climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution.
">Video of Nature Positive Universities
The University of Oxford has an environmental sustainability strategy with dual targets of net zero carbon and a net gain in biodiversity by 2035.
These targets for large institutions are challenging to achieve, but through collaboration and idea-sharing with other universities via the Nature Positive Universities Alliance, we can collectively make progress towards achieving biodiversity net gain.
Harriet Waters, Head of Environmental Sustainability
The initiative, which is part of the UN’s Decade on Ecosystem Restoration, launches with 117 universities from 48 countries, who have made individual pledges to address their impacts on nature.
University pledges include four key elements: 1) Carrying out baseline assessments; 2) Setting specific, time limited and measurable targets for nature; 3) Taking bold action to reduce biodiversity impacts, protect and restore species and ecosystems, while influencing others to do the same; 4) Transparent annual reporting.
The initiative builds on the University of Oxford's experience in setting an ambitious target for biodiversity net gain by 2035 alongside net zero commitments.
Oxford's Environmental Sustainability Strategy is founded on a study which quantified its environmental footprint and established a framework to address them.
E.J.
Milner-Gulland, Tasso Leventis Professor of Biodiversity at the Department of Biology, University of Oxford, and co-founder of the Nature Positive Universities Alliance, said:
'As universities, we occupy a unique position in educating future leaders, researching solutions to environmental challenges, and influencing our communities and governments.
By addressing our own institutions' environmental impacts, we can be powerful thought leaders while also directly contributing to restoring nature.'
All the founding universities announced today have pledged to assess their impacts to determine the most impactful initiatives to introduce, and to report on their progress.
Examples of initiatives so far have included:
People from a further 408 universities are already a part of the wider network, playing their part in bringing their universities closer to meeting environmental targets, by developing research, lobbying their senior management and sharing case studies of their activities.
The network also includes a Student Ambassador Programme, which totals over 100 students from across 35 countries who are taking action toward nature positive awareness and approaches on their campuses.
They are encouraging their universities to make an institutional pledge through advocacy and organisation of nature-positive activities such as volunteering for nature restoration, establishment of sapling nurseries and using their studies to further advance their institutions’ sustainability.
Sam Barratt, Chief of Youth, Education and Advocacy at the UN Environment Programme, said: 'Universities live at the heart of cities, at the crossroads of students’ futures and provide ground-breaking research that educates and informs society.
We are delighted to see Universities will be joining hands to reset our relationship with nature so that, through this Alliance, new action and possibilities are created.
The virtue of higher education has come from a reappraisal of the present to then steer the world to a new future.
We look forward to seeing how the Nature Positive Universities Alliance does just that for this agenda too.'
The Nature Positive Universities Alliance is calling on other universities worldwide to join its collaborative network and to make institutional pledges.
Information on different ways for universities and their members to engage, or how to ask your university to consider making a pledge, can be found at www.naturepositiveuniversities.net .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2025-03-24-research-chimpanzee-engineers-has-implications-understanding-human-technological:
A multidisciplinary team of researchers led by Dr Alejandra Pascual-Garrido , Research Affiliate at the School of Anthropology and Museum Ethnography , University of Oxford, have discovered that chimpanzees living in Gombe Stream National Park in Tanzania employ a degree of engineering when making their tools, deliberately choosing plants that provide materials that produce more flexible tools for termite fishing.
These findings, published in the journal iScience , have important implications for understanding the technical abilities associated with the making of perishable tools – a topic which remains a highly unknown aspect of human technological evolution.
Termites are a good source of energy, fat, vitamins, minerals and protein for chimpanzees.
To eat the insects, chimpanzees need to use relatively thin probes to fish the termites out of the mounds where they live.
Given that the inside of the mounds is made up of winding tunnels, the team of scientists from the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, the Jane Goodall Institute in Tanzania, the University of Algarve and the University of Porto in Portugal, and the University of Leipzig, hypothesized that using flexible tools would be more effective for chimpanzees at fishing out the insects than using rigid sticks.
Dr Alejandra Pascual-Garrido at a termite mound recently fished by chimpanzees at Gombe Stream National Park, Tanzania.
Credit: Dr Alejandra Pascual-Garrido To test this, Dr Alejandra Pascual-Garrido took a portable mechanical tester to Gombe and measured how much force it took to bend plant materials used by the apes compared to plant materials that were available but never used.
Findings showed that plant species never used by chimpanzees were 175 percent more rigid than their preferred materials.
Furthermore, even among plants growing near termite mounds, those that showed obvious signs of regular use by the apes produced more flexible tools than nearby plants that showed no signs of use.
‘This is the first comprehensive evidence that wild chimpanzees select tool materials for termite fishing based on specific mechanical properties,’ says Dr Pascual-Garrido, who has been studying the raw materials used in chimpanzee tools in Gombe for more than a decade.
Notably, certain plant species, such as Grewia spp.
, also constitute tool material for termite fishing chimpanzee communities living up to 5,000 kilometres away from Gombe, implying that the mechanics of these plant materials could be a foundation for such ubiquitous preferences, and that rudimentary engineering may be deeply rooted in chimpanzee tool-making culture.
Wild chimpanzees may therefore possess a kind of "folk physics" – an intuitive comprehension of material properties that helps them choose the best tools for the job.
Their natural engineering ability is not just about using any stick or plant that is available; chimpanzees specifically select materials with mechanical properties that can make their foraging tools more effective.
Dr Pascual-Garrido said: ‘This novel approach, which combines biomechanics with animal behaviour, helps us better understand the cognitive processes behind chimpanzee tool construction and how they evaluate and select materials based on functional properties’.
A Gombe chimpanzee using a termite fishing tool to fish termites.
Credit: Dr Alejandra Pascual-Garrido The findings raise important questions about how this knowledge is learned, maintained and transmitted across generations, for example, by young chimpanzees observing and using their mothers' tools, and whether similar mechanical principles determine chimpanzees' selection of materials for making other foraging tools, such as those used for eating ants or harvesting honey.
‘This finding has important implications for understanding how humans might have evolved their remarkable tool using abilities,’ explains Adam van Casteren, Department of Human Origins, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, a specialist in biomechanics and evolutionary biology.
‘While perishable materials like wood rarely survive in the archaeological record, the mechanical principles behind effective tool construction and use remain constant across species and time’.
By studying how chimpanzees select materials based on specific structural and/or mechanical properties, we can better understand the physical constraints and requirements that would have applied to early human tool use.
Using such a comparative functional framework provides new insights into aspects of early technology that are not preserved in the archaeological record.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2025-03-07-role-physician-and-anaesthetic-associates-uk-healthcare-challenged-largest-ever:
A new rapid systematic review published today by researchers from the Nuffield Department of Primary Care Health Sciences, University of Oxford, and the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, has found little evidence supporting the safety and efficacy of physician associates (PAs) and anaesthetists associates (AAs) in the UK, raising critical questions about the rapid expansion of these roles in the NHS.
The research, published in the British Medical Journal (BMJ) and led by Professor Trisha Greenhalgh and Professor Martin McKee , is the most comprehensive UK-based analysis of peer-reviewed research into PA and AA roles to date.
It was written to inform the ongoing government-commissioned Leng Review which is examining the effectiveness and safety of these roles in UK healthcare.
PAs and AAs are being rapidly introduced across the NHS as a solution to workforce shortages and funding cuts.
However, many question if these roles will improve the challenges facing the NHS and whether the training students receive is sufficient – two years following an undergraduate degree, in contrast to the five years it takes doctors to qualify and the additional ten years it takes to specialise.
The study found little evidence supporting the effectiveness and safety of the PA and AA roles, with almost no research on patient safety and many studies involving fewer than ten PAs.
Key findings
Calling for evidence-based workforce planning
Professor Greenhalgh, lead-author of the study and Professor of Primary Care Health Sciences in the Nuffield Department of Primary Care Health Sciences, University of Oxford, emphasises that the lack of evidence does not equate to proof of safety:
‘The expansion of physician and anaesthetic associates should be informed by solid empirical research.
At present, we simply do not have the data to support claims that these roles improve efficiency or maintain patient safety.
The absence of reported safety incidents in research studies does not mean they do not occur - it means we are not doing the right kind of research to detect and analyse them.’
Professor McKee, co-author of the study and Professor of European Public Health at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, echoes these concerns:
‘The mismatch between policymakers’ enthusiasm for expanding these roles and the lack of rigorous research evidence should be a red flag.
Workforce shortages are a real challenge, but they cannot be addressed by replacing doctors with people whose training maps poorly to the duties expected of them, and who may be inadequately supported, without a clear, evidence-based strategy.’
Implications for policy and the Leng Review
The study calls for a national scope of practice for PAs and AAs, informed by rigorous research into their safety, efficacy, and cost-effectiveness.
Specifically, it urges:
As the Leng Review deliberates on the future of these roles in the NHS, this study provides a crucial evidence-based perspective.
The authors hope it will help shape a more informed, balanced approach to workforce planning and patient safety in UK healthcare.
Read the full study published in the British Medical Journal (BMJ).

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2025-03-04-oxford-and-openai-launch-collaboration-advance-research-and-education:
The University of Oxford has announced plans to expand its artificial intelligence (AI) offering and capabilities with OpenAI.
The initiative builds on Oxford’s investment in strengthening the AI capabilities and skills of all staff and students with its AI & Machine Learning Competency Centre .
Anne Trefethen, Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Digital at the University of Oxford said: 'This new collaboration marks an exciting step forward, offering fresh opportunities to enrich our research, expand our AI capabilities, and foster skill development.
By working together, we can learn from one another, advancing the frontiers of artificial intelligence, understanding its impact on education and unlocking its vast potential for the benefit of our university community and beyond.'
Bodleian Libraries digitisation
The collaboration will involve a pilot research project to digitise public domain materials held in the collections of Oxford University’s Bodleian Libraries.
The collections which have previously been unavailable online, will become searchable and accessible for students and researchers worldwide.
One of the collections to be digitised will be 3,500 of the Bodleian’s global dissertations from across disciplines from 1498 - 1884.
The project, part of the Future Bodleian initiative, demonstrates how the Bodleian Library is using AI to imagine the library of the future.
Richard Ovenden, Bodley’s Librarian and Head of Gardens, Libraries and Museums (GLAM) said: ‘The Bodleian’s mission is to acquire, preserve and make available knowledge for the benefit of our students, researchers and the wider public.
Over the centuries we have constantly sought new ways to take this mission forward and have in more recent years been an innovator in the use of technology.
This initiative with OpenAI comes as part of this long tradition, as part of our Future Bodleian initiative.
‘The Future Bodleian campaign intends to expand digital resources and infrastructure to accommodate the needs of scholars across the world and to respond to the ever-changing nature of how information is created, stored and accessed.’
">Video of Oxford&#039;s Bodleian Library and OpenAI announce new partnership
Research grants and funding
Oxford researchers will also receive access to OpenAI’s latest models including o1 and 4o to accelerate their work.
Research grant funding will also be made available through OpenAI’s NextGenAI initiative for Oxford researchers working on collaborative projects with OpenAI.
This will present opportunities to accelerate the research of academics working in new areas including health and climate change.
This work will complement Oxford’s existing AI research programmes that are developing complex solutions to major global challenges, from cancer diagnosis and drug discovery to fusion energy and robotics.
Professor Patrick Grant, Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Research said: ‘Artificial Intelligence (AI) is accelerating the pace of scientific discovery and enabling researchers to work with increasingly complex data sets.
The University aims to be at the forefront of AI research and the application of AI for all researchers, by producing ground-breaking studies to help both scholars and society not only adapt to these technologies but also harness them wisely to their full potential.’
Roll out of ChatGPT Edu
Following a successful 500-user pilot of OpenAI’s ChatGPT Edu offering - a secure version of ChatGPT based on OpenAI’s latest models including o1 and 4o - the University of Oxford will be rolling out ChatGPT Edu to 3,000 academics and staff.
Faculty using ChatGPT Edu will regularly come together to share novel use cases focused on removing admin burden and using the tools as a super-assistant for a wide range of tasks including research, summarisation and ideation.
ChatGPT Edu features access to OpenAI’s flagship models, offering advanced tools, security, and controls for education institutions.
University of Oxford joins NextGenAI
This collaboration is a result of the University of Oxford’s participation in NextGenAI, a consortium with OpenAI and 15  leading research institutions dedicated to using AI to accelerate research breakthroughs and transform education.
As part of NextGenAI OpenAI is committing $50M in  research grants, compute funding and API access to support students, educators and researchers advancing the frontiers of knowledge.
Other founding NextGenAI partners are Caltech, the California State University System,  Duke University, the University of Georgia, Harvard University, Howard University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the University of Michigan, the University of Mississippi, The Ohio State University, the University of Oxford, Sciences Po, Texas A&M University, as well as Boston’s Children’s Hospital and the Boston Public Library.
Brad Lightcap, OpenAI COO said: 'The field of AI wouldn’t be where it is today without decades of work in the academic community, and continued collaboration is essential to build AI that benefits everyone.
The NextGen AI Initiative will accelerate research progress and catalyse a new generation of institutions equipped to harness the transformative power of AI.'
Read more about use of generative AI at Oxford: https://www.ox.ac.uk/gen-ai
Read more about opportunities for Oxford staff and students: https://staff.admin.ox.ac.uk/article/what-the-openai-collaboration-means-for-you

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2025-01-02-major-new-footprint-discoveries-britain-s-dinosaur-highway:
In a stunning find, researchers from the Universities of Oxford and Birmingham have uncovered a huge expanse of quarry floor filled with hundreds of different dinosaur footprints, creating multiple enormous trackways.
Dating back to the Middle Jurassic Period (around 166 million years ago), the trackways form part of a huge ‘dinosaur highway’ and include footprints from the 9 metre ferocious predator Megalosaurus , and herbivorous dinosaurs up to twice that size .
Excavated footprint.
Credit: Oxford University Museum of Natural History.
See also our 'behind the scenes' at the dig site feature here .
The dig, carried out at Dewars Farm Quarry in Oxfordshire, uncovered five extensive trackways with evidence of more in the surrounding area.
The longest continuous trackway measured more than 150 metres in length.
Four of the trackways were made by gigantic, long-necked, herbivorous dinosaurs called sauropods, most likely to be Cetiosaurus, an up to 18-metre-long cousin of the well-known Diplodocus.
The fifth trackway was made by the carnivorous theropod dinosaur, Megalosaurus which had distinctive, large, three-toed feet with claws.
One area of the site shows the carnivore and herbivore tracks crossing over, raising questions about whether and how the two were interacting.
Megalosaurus was the first dinosaur worldwide to be scientifically named and described in 1824, and kick-started the last 200 years of dinosaur science.
Dr Emma Nicholls , Vertebrate Palaeontologist at OUMNH explained: 'Scientists have known about and been studying Megalosaurus for longer than any other dinosaur on Earth, and yet these recent discoveries prove there is still new evidence of these animals out there, waiting to be found.'
The footprints were buried under mud but came to light when quarry worker Gary Johnson felt 'unusual bumps' as he was stripping the clay back with his vehicle, in order to expose the quarry floor.
At this point, the experts were called in.
Working closely with Quarry Manager Mark Stanway and his staff, a team of more than 100 people, the Universities of Oxford and Birmingham co-led a team of more than 100 people on a week-long excavation in June 2024.
Together, they painstakingly uncovered around 200 footprints and built detailed 3D models of the site using aerial drone photography – documenting the footprints in unprecedented detail for future research.
">Video of Dinosaur tracking across time
Professor Kirsty Edgar , Professor of Micropalaeontology at the University of Birmingham, said: 'These footprints offer an extraordinary window into the lives of dinosaurs, revealing details about their movements, interactions, and the tropical environment they inhabited.'
Mark Stanway and his team at Smiths Bletchington provided an enormous amount of support, from the initial discovery through to the full excavation.
They were invaluable in providing both their extensive expertise in the local geology, and operating specialist equipment such as excavators and rock saws.
The new trackways connect to discoveries made in the area in 1997, where previous limestone quarrying revealed more than 40 sets of footprints, with some trackways reaching up to 180m in length.
At the time, the site provided major new information on the types of dinosaurs present in the UK during the Middle Jurassic Period.
The site was recognised as one of the most scientifically important dinosaur track sites in the world and subsequently designated a Site of Special Scientific Interest.
However, the original site is largely no longer accessible and, since the findings predated the use of digital cameras and drones, there is limited photographic evidence.
The new trackways add to the significance of the area, and even though the discoveries are separated by just thirty years, modern techniques and technology mean the prints can be recorded much more comprehensively than ever before.
Researchers found carnivore and herbivore tracks crossing over which raises questions about whether and how the two were interacting.
Credit: University of Birmingham.
Professor Richard Butler , Professor of Palaeobiology at the University of Birmingham, said: 'There is much more that we can learn from this site, which is an important part of our national Earth heritage.
Our 3D models will allow researchers to continue to study and make accessible this fascinating piece of our past for generations to come.'
During the new excavation, more than 20,000 images were created of the prints.
These will provide a wealth of material for further study and education and could yield valuable insights into how these dinosaurs walked, including speeds, how large they were, and if and how they interacted.
Dr Duncan Murdock , Earth Scientist at OUMNH, said: 'The preservation is so detailed that we can see how the mud was deformed as the dinosaur’s feet squelched in and out.
Along with other fossils like burrows, shells and plants we can bring to life the muddy lagoon environment the dinosaurs walked through.'
The dig leadership team, Kirsty Edgar, Richard Butler, Duncan Murdock and Emma Nicholls, with Digging for Britain presenter, Alice Roberts (second right).
The BBC’s Digging for Britain team filmed the work as part of a new series due to be broadcast next week.
Presented by Professor Alice Roberts, who is also the University of Birmingham’s Professor of Public Engagement in Science, the programme will be available on iPlayer from 7 January, and broadcast on BBC2 on 8 January 2025.
The dig will also feature in the exhibition Breaking Ground at the Oxford University Museum of Natural History, which tells the story of major developments in our understanding of the history of life and Earth.
Visitors will be able to view the original Megalosaurus fossils used in the first description of a dinosaur, see photographs and video footage from the dig site, and learn about the latest techniques used by palaeontologists to study dinosaurs.
The excavation was funded by the Geologists’ Association, School of Geography, Earth and Environmental Sciences at the University of Birmingham, and the University of Birmingham Alumni Fund.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2024-12-12-new-hub-launched-explore-use-artificial-intelligence-education:
A new hub has launched at the Department of Education at the University of Oxford which will promote a research-informed and ethical approach to Artificial Intelligence (AI) in Education.
Working across the four pillars of design, regulation, implementation and impact, the hub is being led by Dr Sara Ratner (Department of Education), Professor Elizabeth Wonnacott (Department of Education) and Professor Rebecca Williams ( Faculty of Law ).
Dr Sara Ratner, Research Officer in the Department of Education at the University of Oxford said: ‘The launch of the AIEOU hub is incredibly exciting, not only for our Department but for anyone committed to providing quality education for all.’
The hub intends to place the learner and their needs at the forefront as the team explore the potential that AI technologies can offer education.
‘Our goal is to establish a dynamic community of practice that will challenge and help positively shape AI in Education’, she adds.
To have a fully rounded view of AI in Education, the hub has already established a large group of members from education, technology, industry, charitable organisations, foundations and, of course, teachers and students.
Thanks to funding from the Social Sciences Division at the University of Oxford, the project will run from now until June 2026.
‘We want to support educators and learners across the world to access reliable research on AI in Education best practice’, Dr Ratner stated.
‘This area of work is incredibly timely and vital to the current landscape of education – hopefully the hub is just the start.’
Find out more about the project on the AIEOU website .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2024-12-09-new-project-aims-transform-how-wildlife-trade-monitored-and-managed:
The University of Oxford will play a leading role in a new project to develop indicators to measure progress towards globally agreed conservation targets, backed by $1.9 million funding from The Global Environment Facility (GEF).
The project is one of seven winners of the GEF’s first Innovation Window, which will provide $12.3 million in grants.
Establishing effective controls on wildlife trade is an urgent priority, however this is hindered by rapidly evolving markets, opaque supply chains, and inadequate resources for enforcement.
This new collaboration, led by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), will focus on filling the critical gap in indicators of unsustainable and sustainable wildlife use and trade.
This will be done by using cutting-edge approaches to integrate big data from social media, trade statistics, and biodiversity databases.
The aim is to develop novel and transformative wildlife use and trade indicators and standardised monitoring frameworks, which will greatly enhance global capacity and efforts to ensure that trade in wildlife at different scales is sustainable.
“This is an exciting project.
We have an opportunity to develop novel indicators to help track progress towards globally agreed targets relating to the (un)sustainable use and trade of wildlife.”
Dr Dan Challender (Department of Biology)
Researchers in the Oxford team will contribute to developing new frameworks and indicators and will then apply these to answer questions such as to what extent are conservation efforts mitigating the threat to species from overexploitation for international trade?
Oxford researchers will also play a role in taking the developed indicators to policymakers in the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) to support their adoption.
Oxford lead on the project Dr Dan Challender (Department of Biology) commented: ‘This is an exciting project.
We have an opportunity to develop novel indicators to help the world’s government track progress towards globally agreed targets and goals relating to the (un)sustainable use and trade of wildlife.
We are looking forward to working with Parties to the CBD and CITES to develop the indicators that are most needed.’
“Increasing urban demand for wildlife products has led to unsustainable levels of hunting...
Accessible knowledge on wildlife populations and wildlife use and trade are crucial for developing effective sustainable management approaches."
Dr Lauren Coad (Department of Biology and CIFOR-ICRAF)
The project builds on Oxford’s expertise in using interdisciplinary approaches to understand threats to wildlife, design effective wildlife trade interventions, and evaluate actions.
This includes research to understand how many species are likely threatened by international trade , and the recent demonstration that patent data could provide a novel means to identify future commercial trends associated with the overharvesting of wildlife for trade.
Dr Lauren Coad (Department of Biology and CIFOR-ICRAF) said: ‘Wildlife provides a crucial source of food and income for many rural communities across the globe.
However, increasing urban demand for wildlife products has led to unsustainable levels of hunting, threatening numerous species and leading to changes in ecosystem function.
This has negative impacts on wildlife survival, local cultures, and food security.
Accessible knowledge on wildlife populations and wildlife use and trade are crucial for developing effective sustainable management approaches at the local to international levels."
The Innovation Window program was launched by the GEF to support and help road-test novel approaches, tools, and business models for complex problems related to biodiversity, climate change, pollution, and inter-related areas, engaging new and varied partners.
The seven winning projects were chosen from an initial pool of 128 applications and cover a wide range of issues in finance, behaviour change, systems transformation, technology, and tools.
The partners in this project are IUCN (lead), University of Oxford, University of Helsinki, University of Cambridge, United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), United Nations Environment Programme-World Conservation Monitoring Centre (UNEP-WCMC), International Institute for Environment and Development (IIED), Zoological Society of London (ZSL), and TRAFFIC.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2024-11-15-oxford-university-innovations-2024-impact-report-showcases-year-transformative:
Oxford University Innovation (OUI), the technology transfer office of the University of Oxford, has launched its 2024 report Shaping the Future: Oxford’s Innovation Impact .
Over the past 12 months, OUI raised millions of pounds to fund innovative research and venture creation, filed scores of new patents, and created more than 15 new companies.
The report was unveiled at an Oxford Innovation Society (OIS) event for academic founders and leaders, venture capital investors, industry and ecosystem partners.
According to OUI’s preliminary output metrics, between August (2023) and July (2024), OUI and their partners:
Key achievements over the past 12 months include:
The report also reveals the growing role women are playing in OUI’s commercialisation activities.
The share of unique female individuals involved in OUI commercialisation activities rose from 27.8% in 2015-16 to 33.7% in 2022-23.
All female or mixed-sex teams involved in commercialisation projects increased from 29.8% to 39.5%.
Dr Mairi Gibbs , Chief Executive of Oxford University Innovation said:
‘Oxford University Innovation remains committed to turning cutting-edge research into real-world solutions for the unprecedented challenges and opportunities of our time.
‘Our goal is to support innovators from across the University, ensuring that their ideas can create lasting economic, societal, and environmental impacts.
Our future will be shaped by close collaboration between academia, industry, and society - and we are excited to lead the way in building that future here at Oxford.’
Baroness Nicola Blackwood , Oxford University Innovation Executive Chairwoman said:
‘As the world confronts increasingly complex challenges, our ability to innovate at speed and scale has never been more critical.
Over the past year, Oxford University Innovation has continued to play a pivotal role in transforming ground-breaking research into tangible economic and societal benefits, strengthening our position as a global leader in innovation.’
Professor Chas Bountra , Pro Vice-Chancellor for Innovation at the University of Oxford said:
‘As a university we continue to translate knowledge into real-world impact, through support to form cutting edge spinouts, and the return of millions of pounds to the University to fund future innovation and research.
Oxford University Innovation's achievements reflect our commitment to pushing boundaries, collaborating boldly, and creating solutions that shape a better future for all.
Together we are linking with more than 300 spinouts, supporting our expanding university science parks and generating investment growth through our network of investment partners, driven by Oxford Science Enterprises.
This collaboration has fostered remarkable clusters in areas such as life sciences, AI / quantum, space and satellite, autonomous vehicles and motorsport, energy, and publishing, contributing to a world-leading innovation hub here in Oxfordshire.
Our aim is to use our talent, networks and ground-breaking research to tackle many of the challenges facing our planet, by creating an ‘inclusive innovation ecosystem’ which is benefitting everyone in the region.'
The report ‘Shaping the Future: Oxford’s Innovation Impact’ can be found on the OUI website .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2024-11-14-outsourcing-adult-social-care-has-contributed-england-s-care-crisis-argue:
Outsourcing adult social care services in England to the private sector since the 1980s has led to worse care and should be rolled back, argue researchers from the Blavatnik School of Government and the Department of Social Policy and Intervention , Oxford University, in The British Medical Journal today.
They suggest that removing the profit motive would help improve quality and reduce inequities.
'On average, for-profit care homes are worse quality and more selective than publicly-owned provision – and yet the for-profit sector has come to dominate the landscape in England's social care', says Benjamin Goodair from the Blavatnik School of Government 's Government Outcomes Lab , lead author of the article, which is based on research funded by the Nuffield Foundation .
Social care (sometimes referred to as community, residential, or personalised care) for older people and people with physical and mental disabilities is facing record demand in England, but is performing worse than any time in recent history, the Oxford University authors explain.
Their research into the outsourcing of social care services tracks the levels of social care outsourcing in unprecedented granularity, revealing the near ending of publicly-owned residential care.
In the UK, social care in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland is devolved, so they examined England data specifically.
One contributor to this, they say, is the outsourcing of care provision from the public to the private sector.
Figures suggest that the share of adult social care that is publicly provided has fallen from 42% to 9% since 2001.
Although competition from private sector provision was championed as a solution to achieve cheaper and better-quality care, the authors point to evidence from the past few decades in the UK and elsewhere that challenges this view.
For example, international evidence suggests quality differences are seen when private companies take over public services, suggesting that the same locations run by for-profit companies do worse.
These quality differences are found in many countries and in many different measures of quality, such as lower staffing rates or forced closures of care homes (an action of last resort when residents’ safety is at risk), suggesting that the for-profit gap is robust to different measures of quality.
Inequality has also been worsened as adult social care has turned to market-based and more self-funded provision, they add.
Providers in England, for example, are increasingly focused on attracting affluent, self-funded social care users, who pay higher fees than the rates set for state-funded residents, leading to services becoming less accessible in the most deprived areas.
One reason for the failure of privatisation is that when quality is hard to measure, as it is in the care sector, market-based provision is likely to incentivise cost cutting over quality improvements, they explain.
Alongside a lack of regulatory powers by the Care Quality Commission (CQC), this means that profit-seeking remains largely unchecked, allowing companies to cut costs and quality in pursuit of financial gain.
So, the authors ask, how can we ensure that England’s ageing population and population with disabilities can access safe, equitable, and effective care?
Acknowledging that removing the profit incentive alone will not solve the challenges facing the sector, which has long grappled with chronic underfunding and staffing shortages, they suggest a partial solution is to control, restrict, or remove the profit motive in social care services, which would both improve the quality of provision and reduce inequalities across the system.
They say this can be achieved by measures such as profit caps, limiting the payment of shareholder dividends, or attempting to align financial incentives with care quality through performance-related payments – but they acknowledge that these approaches face multiple challenges.
Another option is bringing services back into public ownership or restricting all private ownership to third sector (non-profit) models, which could be 'the first step in taking back control and gradually moving towards a care system less driven by the profit motive,' they suggest.
'Insufficient quality care can cause severe harm and distress for people who need it,' they write.
'Urgent steps to reduce the profit motive and reverse the outsourcing of services are essential to protect the growing population in need of care.'
'The new UK government will soon need to announce their plans for social care reform – it will be a major opportunity to address the issues related to for-profit outsourcing and curtail to profit-motive in the sector”, says Benjamin.
“In the meantime, we can already see in the data some councils taking the issue into their own hands and starting to reverse this historic trend.'
The authors of the article are Benjamin Goodair from the Blavatnik School’s Government Outcomes Lab , Anders Bach-Mortensen from Roskilde University and the Blavatnik School’s Government Outcomes Lab, and Adrienne McManus and Michelle Degli Esposti from Oxford's Department of Social Policy and Intervention .
Full article at the British Medical Journal: ' Analysis: How outsourcing has contributed to England’s social care crisis’ (DOI: 10.1136/bmj-2024-080380)
Last month the wider project team released an in-depth report on the outsourcing of social care in England .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2024-11-14-men-more-willing-women-accept-robot-care-old-age-oxford-study-finds:
A new study from AI experts at the University of Oxford and University of Melbourne reveals that men are much more likely to support the idea of being cared for in their homes by a robot when they are infirm or elderly, than women.
The study, published in the journal Community, Work and Family , assesses people's attitudes towards having robots caring for oneself, providing services and companionship, when one is infirm or elderly.
The study draws on data from 28 European countries, factoring in local determinants such as GDP, women’s labour force participation rates, and spending on elderly care.
The lead author, Professor Ekaterina Hertog , Associate Professor at the Oxford Internet Institute & the Institute for Ethics in AI , University of Oxford explains: “In our study we investigate three key questions: Are women more comfortable than men with being cared for by robots in their old age?
Are those with greater time pressures and higher opportunity costs more supportive of receiving care from technology?
And do macro-level factors inform individual attitudes to robotic care?”
The researchers find that individuals differ substantially in how comfortable they are with using technology to fulfil their care needs, with local context and personal factors shaping attitudes towards being cared for by robots.
Key findings of the study:
It is also not all about personal characteristics, the researchers find.
Their analysis highlights how peoples’ attitudes are informed not only by personal experiences, such as ability to pay, and shortage of time, but also, crucially, by local context, for example, by welfare provision available for older adults.
'A key finding of ours was that local context really matters,' stresses study co-author Professor Leah Ruppanner, University of Melbourne.
'Those living in communities with higher levels of female employment and lower levels of spending on old age support were generally more comfortable with using robots for elderly care.
Conversely, we find that when governments invest more heavily in elder care, people report (on average) being less comfortable with relying on robots in the home to provide care for the infirm and elderly.'
For policymakers, the research flags that they should be aware of are 'tensions between a desire to meet adult care demands with human or technological labour.
Technology should not be an inevitability.
Rather, any investment into technological solutions needs to be evaluated against investing in support for paid or unpaid carers,' adds co-author Brendan Churchill, University of Melbourne.
Looking ahead, the researchers stress the need for policymakers to evaluate the opportunity costs of any adult care technologies against human care provision.
'When such digital care technologies are adopted, it is crucial we consider how adult care technologies can be integrated in a way that preserves, and ideally amplifies, the ability of human carers to maintain the connection with those they care for,' maintains Professor Hertog.
'Care technologies will only become more salient as populations age, women’s workforce participation increases and technology advances.
The questions we need to ask are how comfortable are individuals with letting AI-powered technologies like robots take care of them?
And what might be shaping their preferences?'
The full paper “ Silicon caregivers: A multilevel analysis of European perspectives on robotic technologies for elderly care ,” has been published in Community, Work, and Family .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2024-11-13-new-ethical-framework-help-navigate-use-ai-academic-research:
Researchers from the University of Oxford, University of Cambridge, University of Copenhagen, National University of Singapore, and other leading institutions have devised philosophically-grounded ethical guidelines for using Large Language Models in academic writing.
However, several concerns arise from their probabilistic nature relating to plagiarism, authorship attribution, and the integrity of academia as a whole.
As AI tools become increasingly sophisticated, clear ethical guidelines are therefore crucial to maintaining the quality and credibility of scholarly work.
The new research, published in Nature Machine Intelligence , outlines three essential criteria that maximise the beneficial impacts of LLMs on scientific advancement and academic equity:
The authors define a template LLM Use Acknowledgement, which researchers can utilise when submitting manuscripts.
This practical tool will streamline adherence to ethical standards in AI-assisted academic writing, and provide greater transparency about LLM use.
Speaking of the guidelines, co-author, Professor Julian Savulescu , of The Uehiro Oxford Institute , said: ‘Large Language Models are the Pandora's Box for academic research.
They could eliminate academic independence, creativity, originality and thought itself.
But they could also facilitate unimaginable co-creation and productivity.
These guidelines are the first steps to using LLMs responsibly and ethically in academic writing and research.’
This publication marks a crucial step in managing the relationship between human academic work and machine intelligence.
By empowering researchers to leverage AI technology ethically, they aim to boost productivity and innovation while preserving academic integrity.
Co-author, Dr Brian Earp , of The Uehiro Oxford Institute, said: ‘It's appropriate and necessary to be extremely cautious when faced with new technological possibilities, including the ability for human writers to co-create academic material using generative AI.
This is especially true when things are scaling up and moving quickly.
But ethical guidelines are not only about reducing risk; they are also about maximizing potential benefits.’
Professor Timo Minssen from the University of Copenhagen said: ‘Guidance is essential in shaping the ethical use of AI in academic research, and in particular concerning the co-creation of academic articles with LLMs.
Appropriate acknowledgment based on the principles of research ethics should ensure transparency, ethical integrity, and proper attribution.
Ideally, this will promote a collaborative and more inclusive environment where human ingenuity and machine intelligence can enhance scholarly discourse.’
This new research presents opportunities for academic communities worldwide,  and can be used across all academic disciplines.
The paper 'Guidelines for ethical use and acknowledgement of large language models in academic writing’ has been published in Nature Machine Intelligence .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2024-11-13-climate-policy-monitor-reveals-net-zero-regulations-surge-globally-implementation:
As countries meet at COP29 in Baku, a new Oxford University study, developed through pro-bono partnerships with 48 leading law firms around the world, provides the most detailed view yet of how key economic rules are aligning – or not – to climate goals.
In Brazil, incoming rules require listed companies and financial institutions to report publicly not only their emissions, but also the risks they face from climate change (similar rules exist in California, China, and Turkey).
And, in the UK, companies seeking to sell the government goods and services worth more than £5m must have a net zero plan.
The study comes at a critical moment as the world confronts a persistent “implementation gap” between climate targets and results.
While countries, companies, and other actors continue to set net zero targets – including a 23 percent rise in company net zero targets over the last year – global emissions also continue to rise.
As countries look to submit new pledges under the Paris Agreement next year, it is vital they underpin top-level targets with concrete regulations and policies to ensure implementation.
At the same time, a second Trump Administration has promised to roll back climate policies in the US, meaning companies may face a fragmented regulatory landscape, and that policies and regulations introduced at state level and by the rest of the world are all the more vital for achieving net zero globally.
'Nations and companies have made ambitious pledges, but pledges alone won’t prevent catastrophic climate change', says co-lead for the new survey Professor Thomas Hale of Oxford’s Blavatnik School of Government .
'We need legally enforced rules – imposed by governments on themselves and on companies operating in their jurisdictions.
The good news is there’s been huge recent growth in such rules.
Next we need to close gaps.'
'To close gaps in climate policy, we need to be able to see and understand them', says co-lead Dr Thom Wetzer , Associate Professor at Oxford’s Faculty of Law and Oxford’s Smith School .
'Our open-access Climate Policy Monitor will allow everyone to evaluate the ambition, comprehensiveness and stringency of climate regulations as they evolve over time.'
The Climate Policy Monitor , launching Wednesday 13 November from the University of Oxford, will be a regularly updated public resource evaluating the ambition, comprehensiveness, and stringency of climate-related regulations against 250+ data points.
It evaluates national regulations in three key domains:
At COP29, the Monitor’s findings support the work of the UN Taskforce on Net Zero Policy (launched last year at COP28), which will issue a major report in Baku to advance efforts to align policy tools to climate goals.
Catherine McKenna, former Canadian Environment Minister and head of the UN Secretary-General’s net zero integrity task force , says: 'Voluntary efforts are important but only get us so far.
By weaving net zero into the rules that shape the economy, policymakers can level the playing field and drive not just pledges but big cuts in emissions.'
The Climate Policy Monitor finds growing regulatory activity across the major economies, but also continuing gaps.
The Monitor’s rich data, open-access at climatepolicymonitor.ox.ac.uk , show specific areas where regulators can strengthen and align economic rules to create a level playing field and enabling environment for achieving net zero.
The Monitor will be expanded to further domains and jurisdictions next year.
Helena Viñes Fiestas, Commissioner of the Spanish Financial Markets Authority and co-chair of the UN Taskforce on Net Zero Policy, said: 'The urgent need for a meaningful and systemic response to climate change has never been more evident.
Clear and ambitious net zero rules are essential to unlock the investments required for the transition and help regulators reduce risk.
While early progress is encouraging, it is insufficient to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees.
We must act decisively and swiftly to capitalise on economic opportunities, mitigate risks, and drive the world toward a net zero future.'
Professor Thomas Hale of Oxford University’s Blavatnik School of Government, co-lead for the Monitor , said: 'There’s been huge growth in rules around net zero in just the last year, not just in Europe but in jurisdictions like South Africa, Turkey, and California.
While the incoming Trump administration may try to roll back federal policies, firms operating around the world will be looking at their growing global regulatory obligations.'
Dr Thom Wetzer, Associate Professor of Law and Finance and Director of the University of Oxford’s Sustainable Law Programme, co-lead for the Monitor , said: 'Net zero targets are becoming embedded in the global economic architecture.
Following a groundswell of voluntary net-zero targets by companies, regulators are increasingly introducing mandatory rules underpinned by widely endorsed standards.
Globally operating businesses will have to navigate that reality, even as the Trump administration may attempt to reverse US climate policy.'
Amanda Carpenter, Director of The Legal Charter 1.5 , said: 'The Monitor data is of great consequence to the legal sector.
Lawyers both hold a crucial position of influence with clients and will also be present in key decision-making and legislative processes that shape the transition to net zero.
We are delighted that the One Million Hours initiative could facilitate the pro bono work to support the Climate Policy Monitor.'
The Net Zero Regulation and Policy Hub , which produces the Climate Policy Monitor, is a collaboration between the Blavatnik School of Government and the Oxford Sustainable Law Programme (which is a joint initiative of the Oxford Smith School and Oxford's Law Faculty ).
It is part of the Oxford Net Zero strategic cluster.
It was launched in October 2023 as a direct output of the Oxford Martin Programme on Net Zero Regulation and Policy with a £1m strategic funding grant from the Oxford Martin School .
It is also supported by the EU Horizon ACHIEVE Project.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2024-11-12-new-ukri-funded-network-bolster-uk-s-cyber-security-research-ecosystem:
A new network led by Oxford University’s Department of Computer Science aims to protect cyber security in the UK and beyond, realise the benefits of emerging technologies, and better prepare society against future cyber threats.
The Cyber Security Research and Networking Environment (CRANE) NetworkPlus is supported by a £6 million investment from the UKRI Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC).
The UK is the third most targeted country in the world for cyber-attacks , after Ukraine and the United States.
Launching in early 2025, the CRANE initiative aims to create new insights into how to achieve security by design and default.
The goal is to drive better cyber security across the economy, including sectors from manufacturing and healthcare to law enforcement.
This will make businesses, charities, communities, and people more resilient against cyber threats.
This network will bring together key people from across academia and industry to work in the best way to better protect us against cyber threats and attacks.
This investment underlines our commitment to enhancing the UK’s security and resilience, ensuring that we are prepared to adapt to the evolving challenges of our digital world.
Professor Charlotte Deane , EPSRC Executive Chair and a Professor in Oxford University’s Department of Statistics
The network will provide leadership in spotting emerging global trends and national strengths in cyber security, including understanding the potential of game-changing technologies from artificial intelligence to quantum computing.
Project lead Professor Andrew Martin (Department of Computer Science, Oxford University) said: ‘There is a pressing need for improvements in cyber security across a broad spectrum of social and technical research.
We want to help the community to identify areas where research can bring the most benefit and encourage its development right across the UK and beyond.’
CRANE will have the following core objectives:
This new network will help further open opportunities for the sector to collaborate on the most pressing cyber challenges, driving meaningful progress through our joint efforts to make the UK the safest place to live and work online.
National Cyber Security Centre Chief Technical Officer, Ollie Whitehouse
CRANE will be co-led by Professors Lynne Coventry from Abertay University, Adam Joinson from the University of Bath, Steven Murdoch from University College London, and Mark Ryan from the University of Birmingham.
It aims to be a collaborative hub – a ‘one-stop shop’ for engagement between the research community and other sectors, including government, industry, and non-profit organisations.
This integrative approach will facilitate international collaboration and encourage the UK’s cyber security ecosystem to connect with global peers, strengthening its position on the international stage.
The program is structured to support grassroots research efforts by helping researchers form special interest groups and working groups focused on specific cyber security research areas, enabling researchers to connect with others working on similar problems to share insights, methods, and breakthroughs.
In addition, a horizon-scanning process will guide the development of CRANE’s research agenda, ensuring the initiative remains responsive to current needs and emerging threats.
These actions, alongside regional activities, face to face/online events, and a small grants scheme for early-stage research projects will help nurture talent across the UK, support the career development of future world-class cyber professionals, and create a long-term sustainable community.
Minister for Cyber Security, Feryal Clark, said: ‘Since taking office we’ve made shoring up our cyber defences a national priority.
To make sure they’re stronger than ever, we’ll be bringing in new laws next year as we continue to take steps to ensure our online economy and critical services are safe, resilient and secure.’
‘This network will bolster those efforts, building up a better picture of where our strengths lie and where the gaps we need to plug are, all while supporting our expert cyber security workforce to drive forward their careers and become the UK’s cyber leaders of tomorrow.’

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2024-11-08-oxford-s-gargoyles-come-life-new-extended-reality-xr-interactive-experience:
TORCH (The Oxford Research Centre in the Humanities) at the University of Oxford is bringing an Extended Reality (XR) experience to Oxford, transforming a disused venue in a prime city centre location for a free pop-up immersive experience.
From 11-24 November, Fantasy Futures: Guardians of Oxford will showcase the latest innovations in motion tracking technologies, provided by Vicon Motion Systems, and take visitors on a narrative journey through an alternative Oxford.
Visitors will interact with a multisensory, gamified environment, guided by computer-generated gargoyle characters as they battle to protect the city from climate change.
The project seeks to share the rich Humanities research narratives of the University of Oxford with diverse, younger audiences, through a free, family-friendly public offering open to all.
By bringing to life a historic but currently empty city centre building, formerly home to NatWest bank, the project aims to augment the cultural offer of the city, and aspire to scale the project nationally and internationally to widen its impact and help address the decline of the High Street.
Working with the Oxford Centre for Islamic Studies , the team at TORCH has transformed the venue to offer a bespoke, unique experience for visitors as they pass from room to room on an interactive, gamified narrative journey.
">Video of Fantasy Futures
Fantasy Futures is an experiment in XR based on the research of former Director of TORCH Professor Wes Williams , and co-created with experts from the gaming and arts sectors.
Professor Williams said: ‘The experience conjugates the visual exploration of hybrid ‘humanimal’ creatures with place-based gaming narrative to create an innovative experiment in participatory research.
Fantasy Futures focuses on the often-overlooked representations of hybrid creatures in Oxford’s architectural heritage to bring to life for younger audiences the effects of climate change in the Anthropocene on the city’s built environment.’
Fantasy Futures is the result of an inspiring interdisciplinary collaboration with Creative Industries project partners Brian Mitchell, former Head of Audiomotion Studios, and Ian Wallman, photographer and virtual content creator.
Through this partnership, TORCH has co-created a novel prototype experience, with the aim of widening impact by both engaging the public in the research outcomes and delivering socio-economic benefits to the creative and cultural sectors.
Brian Mitchell, Founding Director of The Mocap Academy (TMA), added: ‘We have been supported by some great companies and individuals on the journey, from concept artists to character creation, game engine environments to audio recording and effects.
The motion tracking system we used for the viewer interaction was supplied by Vicon Motion Systems.
Vicon is the market leader in this technology and are constantly pushing the limits to open up new opportunities.
We will see more applications like this tech to create fully interactive shared experiences in all sorts of ways in the future.’
Visit Fantasy Futures: Guardians of Oxford between 11-24 November at 1 George Street, Oxford.
Book your free tickets via the TORCH website.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2024-10-31-work-nature-unlock-economic-prosperity-says-major-oxford-study:
A comprehensive review of the economic impacts of nature-based solutions (NbS), led by the University of Oxford and published this week in PLOS Climate , concludes they can unlock prosperity by boosting local economies, increasing agricultural productivity and creating jobs.
These attributes make NbS an essential approach for countries as they transition to clean and efficient circular economies.
Specific examples covered by the research include the Working for Water* (WfW) programme in South Africa, which cleared invasive species from over 1 million hectares of land while supporting over 20,000 jobs, and a coastal restoration project in the United States which created 17 jobs for every US$1m spent.
Nature's value is often overlooked in accounting frameworks, yet our study highlights its tremendous economic benefits.
At a time when global systems are under strain and the planet is warming, nature-based solutions offer a vital opportunity to boost the resilience of ecosystems—and the economies that depend on them.
Nathalie Seddon , Professor of Biodiversity at the Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment and Department of Biology, University of Oxford
'The evidence also shows NbS can be deployed with speed and flexibility in areas where they are needed the most, like rural communities that are often neglected by other investment approaches,' says Alex Chausson , lead author of the study, NbS specialist at WWF-UK, and Research Associate at Oxford’s Nature-Based Solutions Initiative (NbSI).
They are important tools for stimulating local economies, especially during recovery from crises, he adds.
However, the authors identify several factors that are holding NbS back, including siloed government decision-making, widespread misconceptions that pro-environmental policies can harm business, and a lack of reporting on the broader impacts of NbS projects.
'Right now, when a government makes an investment in nature, all too often they are failing to look at the wider impact that investment is having,' explains Chausson.
'The immediate impact of restored woodland on biodiversity might be monitored, for example, but the broader benefits of the project on jobs or the resilience of the local community to climate change will not be.
If these aspects are considered, it will lead to better policy decisions.'
'It's clear that well-designed investments in nature can create jobs, deliver high economic productivity, and enhance resilience, offering a powerful response to economic shocks,' affirms Dr Brian O’Callaghan , co-author and Lead Researcher and Project Manager at the Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment.
'But investors and policy makers must take a cautious approach to ensure key stakeholders are not left behind and unexpected negative externalities are avoided.'
Following best practice standards for NbS is crucial to make sure benefits are delivered in practice, explains Alison Smith , co-author and Senior Research Associate at the NbSI.
'We found that community involvement in NbS design and delivery was a key factor for making sure that benefits are distributed fairly, and helping to avoid trade-offs,' she says.
'Integrating traditional, local and scientific knowledge can also really help to improve the outcomes of NbS for both nature and people'.
Harnessing nature-based solutions for economic recovery: a systematic review was funded by the Oxford Martin School’s Biodiversity & Society Programme .
The authors analysed evidence from 66 carefully selected 'review' papers on nature-based solutions, each encompassing evidence from multiple studies.
To the authors knowledge, their study is the first comprehensive review of the economic impacts of NbS.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2024-10-23-new-study-reveals-global-consensus-what-democracy-means:
Researchers have carried out a new comprehensive assessment on how different people around the world understand the concept of 'democracy'.
The results, published by the leading journal Science , demonstrate that -overwhelmingly- people in diverse countries agree that two factors are the most important for democratic societies: competitive elections and strong protections for civil liberties.
Most people in most countries state that they wish to have a democratic government .
But the definition of democracy has been contested constantly.
Without understanding what people really mean by democracy, the concept is vulnerable to being exploited by dictators and anti-democratic politicians for their own ends.
Today, democracy is under pressure within and across societies, even in long-standing democracies such as the United States and India.
A new research study led by the University of Oxford, National University of Singapore , and Emory University has now shed light on the question 'How do people around the world define democracy?' The study surveyed over 6000 people from the United States, Italy, Egypt, India, Thailand, and Japan - countries with highly different political regimes, democratic histories, geographic regions, levels of development, and cultural backgrounds.
The study explored how people prioritize nine different attributes in their understanding of what makes a country democratic, using examples of hypothetical countries.
Key findings:
In contrast the researchers found little evidence of an 'authoritarian' redefinition of democracy taking root anywhere.
Even within authoritarian countries such as Egypt or Thailand, democracy was still perceived as being rooted in elections and liberties.
Co-author Associate Professor Scott Williamson ( Department of Politics and International Relations , University of Oxford) said: 'We found that people across six very different countries consistently emphasize competitive elections and civil liberties as key determinants of what makes a country democratic.
This shared understanding of democracy’s most important elements makes it more likely that people can identify undemocratic behaviour and push back against undemocratic political leaders.'
The paper 'People consistently view elections and civil liberties as key components of democracy' has been published in Science .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2024-10-22-new-legal-research-gaza-war-urges-immediate-action:
New paper argues international community must refocus on restraining Gaza war in the present, not just debating whether the thresholds for war crimes have been met.
In a paper on international law in Gaza, Professor Janina Dill of the Blavatnik School of Government , Oxford University and co-author Tom Dannenbaum ( Fletcher School, Tufts University ) argue that the role of law in restraining war risks being stifled by too much focus on the threshold for retrospective accountability for war crimes.
They argue that, when applying the right threshold, Israel is in violation of international humanitarian law and that outside countries should suspend material assistance such as selling weapons.
The devastating human toll of the Gaza conflict has underscored the urgent need for international humanitarian law to fulfil three distinct functions, the first two of which are being neglected in legal debate, say the authors:
They argue that an exclusive focus on the third role is unhelpful.
'A lot of the Gaza discussion is focussed on concepts and institutional frameworks that relate to retrospective accountability' , says Janina, who is Professor of Global Security at Oxford’s Blavatnik School of Government.
'If Hamas's and/or Israel's leaders have committed war crimes and are to be held accountable for them by the International Criminal Court, that is many years away – and the threshold for being found guilty is rightly very high.
What we should focus on now is the real-time legal assessments of whether or not current or imminent acts are lawful.
These serve the different – and urgent – purpose of preventing and constraining unlawful harm.
More attention is needed on such assessments and on which thresholds are relevant to them.'
The paper states that both Hamas and Israel have committed multiple violations of international humanitarian law, and that while this is rarely denied in relation to Hamas, Israel is different.
'The prevalence of violations is not unique to this conflict.
What is unusual in Gaza is that catastrophic harm coincides with … [a] claim of legal compliance: Israeli officials consistently and often proactively argue that their military operations adhere to international law, with support from some legal experts.'
Both critics and defenders of particular military operations by Israel have tended to invoke legal concepts relating to accountability.
Critics may refer to war crimes (as opposed to 'mere' violations of international law) in order to express stronger disapproval.
But this then invokes the standards and burden of proof that being found guilty of a war crime through the International Criminal Court demands – which can lead to a distracting debate about those standards that, the authors argue, isn't always relevant to preventing or constraining violations of law in the present.
Conversely, those defending particular military operations may call attention to the law's accountability function as part of a demand to suspend legal judgement until contested facts can be clarified – since, as the paper acknowledges, 'in war, information is partial, cognitive biases are primed, and propaganda machines operate at full tilt.' But, the authors say, 'international humanitarian law is also meant to constrain belligerents’ actions in advance and to help third states evaluate these actions so they can concurrently meet their own obligations.
Law must discharge these functions while hostilities are ongoing or not at all … international law must provide the doctrinal resources to navigate the uncertainty and contestation that characterises armed conflict.'
The paper, ‘ International Law in Gaza: Belligerent Intent and Provisional Measures ’ (forthcoming in the American Journal of International Law ), is one such resource, offering views and analysis on issues of intent, of recklessness, of the distinction between military and civilian people or objects, of genocide allegations, and of aims versus means.
The authors make clear that they do not agree with Israel's claims of compliance with international humanitarian law.
One of several examples relates to siege and starvation: 'When the only means to starve militants is deliberately starving the civilian population, the lawful ultimate goal cannot authorise the unlawful means.'
Much of the paper focusses on the issue of intent within international law, since Israel and others have argued that the purpose of IDF operations and attacks is never to cause civilian death or harm, and so the actions are lawful.
The authors refute this argument.
'The relevant violations do not require purposively bringing about prohibited consequences such as dead or starved civilians [in order to be unlawful].
When not unduly shaped by standards developed for law's accountability function, an application of [established law] in real time demands that Israel change course and third states suspend material assistance.'

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2024-10-18-pioneering-digital-technology-examine-musical-themes-england-s-most-celebrated:
Experts from the University of Oxford and Birmingham City University’s Royal Birmingham Conservatoire (RBC) will use pioneering new technology to analyse the themes of classical music titan, Sir Edward Elgar, and understand its meanings.
'We will use cutting-edge digital tools to share this important knowledge with the public,' explains Professor Daniel Grimley from the University of Oxford.
'It will transform the way listeners, academics, and performers think about musical themes.'
Themes have historically been a fundamental element of music criticism yet, in recent years, serious musicological study of them has been marginalised.
This project is part of ongoing collaboration between Oxford’s Faculty of Music and the Oxford e-Research Centre to revitalise the study of musical themes through digital methods.
It will explore how Elgar associated themes with times, places, people, and emotions, offering new insights into his life, relationships, and creative process.
'Generations of listeners will gain new insights into what makes Elgar’s music so meaningful,' added Dr Joanna Bullivant , Birmingham City University (BCU) project co-lead.
Crucial funding from the Leverhulme Trust will be used to create a comprehensive digital resource that traces connections between multimedia sources and explores themes across Elgar’s body of work.
This cutting-edge approach promises to reframe thematic analysis as a key musicological discipline.
'Traditionally, themes are examined in a single work,' said Dr Bullivant, who is an expert in 19th and 20th century British music.
'This technology will allow us to follow themes across many works, sources, places, and people.
These findings will be shared with the public using a brand-new digital resource.'
The University of Oxford and BCU have also partnered with the National Trust – curators of Elgar's birthplace museum in Worcestershire – the British Library , and Elgar Works, connecting a range of experts to deepen our understanding of Elgar’s musical legacy.
'This project could become a blueprint for how to connect music to historic places like National Trust properties, in a way that will engage the public when they visit,' said Dr Bullivant.
The outcome will include an online thematic catalogue, an integrated toolkit for music analysis, and scholarly publications that aim to set a new standard in digital musicology.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2024-10-08-new-report-spotlights-urgent-issues-faced-mobile-indigenous-populations:
Researchers from the University of Oxford have collaborated with the United Nations (UN) on a new report that focuses on the legal recognition, land rights and mobility (including transboundary movement) of Mobile Indigenous Peoples.
A consultation session in Mongolia.
Credit: Elizabeth Hempstead
A team of researchers, led by Dr Ariell Ahearn , Departmental Lecturer in Human Geography at the School of Geography and the Environment (SoGE) , and Dawn Chatty , Emeritus Professor of Anthropology and Forced Migration at the Refugee Studies Centre (RSC), were instrumental in arranging in-person and virtual consultations with mobile groups from across the world for the UN report which was a response to the demands of the Dana+20 Manifesto .
Dr Ahearn said: ‘This report is not only a powerful advocacy tool but also the result of years of relationship-building and collaboration.
Our involvement with the Dana+20 Manifesto and its connection to the UN report highlights the impact of sustained efforts to promote the rights and visibility of Mobile Indigenous Peoples.
This work will have far-reaching effects.’
Key findings of the report:
The report is built on contributions from Mobile Indigenous Peoples worldwide, including (but not limited to) Sámi reindeer herders from Finland, Norway, the Russian Federation, and Sweden; Mongolian pastoralists; Pauktuutit Inuit Women of Canada; Maasai pastoralists from Tanzania and Kenya; Batwa hunter-gatherers in the Democratic Republic of the Congo; and Bedouin herders in Jordan.
With a wealth of firsthand experiences and examples, the document serves as a vital resource for understanding the challenges and resilience of these communities.
The Oxford team with a group of Mobile Indigenous Peoples in Mongolia.
Credit: Elizabeth Hempstead Professor Chatty has led efforts for the recognition of the rights of Mobile Indigenous Peoples for over 20 years.
She explained: ‘For far too long Mobile Peoples – herders, foragers, and shifting agriculturists - have been dislocated, displaced and disposed.
Government and policy makers now need to set these discriminatory concepts and practices right.’
Looking forward, the team is continuing its advocacy by organising a side event with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in New York on 14 October 2024.
The event aims to ensure that the recommendations laid out in the report are implemented in partnership with Mobile Indigenous Peoples, further amplifying their voices in international policy-making.
View the full report here.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2024-10-03-oxford-researchers-record-wettest-month-250-years:
Oxford University researchers have recorded the wettest month in Oxford in 250 years at the Radcliffe Meteorological Station .
Data from the station this week confirmed that September 2024 saw an extraordinary 193.3 mm of rainfall, making it Oxford’s wettest month since 1774 and the second wettest of any month since rainfall records began in 1767.
Only about one year in ten is it the wettest month of the year.
So this month’s rainfall, which is 374% of what we’d normally expect, is remarkable.
And even more so when you consider that most of the month’s rain fell across just two days.'
Charlie Knight takes a rainfall measurement with a rain gauge at the Radcliffe Meteorological Station
Credit: Charlie Knight The majority of the month’s rain fell on 22 September (77.1 mm 09-09h) and 23 September (41.8 mm 09-09h), which combined is the highest two-day total in the station’s history.
Nearby Environmental Agency (EA) gauges support the Radcliffe rainfall totals, with one gauge at Osney Lock recording 101.1 mm in just under 23 hours on 23 September.
The Radcliffe Meteorological Station, managed by the School of Geography and the Environment at the University of Oxford, holds the longest series of temperature and rainfall records for one site in Britain.
Monthly rainfall records extend to 1767, while daily records extend back to December 1813 for air temperature, January 1827 for rainfall, and February 1880 for sunshine hours.
Such long-term weather records are invaluable for climate research.
They provide a vital link between modern weather data and those of the 18th and 19th centuries, allowing researchers to assess how today’s weather fits into historical patterns and how the climate is evolving, especially in light of global warming.
More information about the Radcliffe Meteorological Station is available on the School of Geography and the Environment website .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2025-08-22-chronic-pain-research-breakthrough-identifies-promising-drug-target:
Source: Andrej Vodolazhskyi/ Shutterstock
A new paper published in Nature shows how, in a collaborative project across diverse medical disciplines, Oxford researchers from the Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences (NDCN) and the Department of Biochemistry have identified a new genetic link to pain.
Chronic pain is life-changing and considered one of the leading causes of disability worldwide, making daily life difficult for millions of people around the world, and exacerbating personal and economic burdens.
Despite established theories about the molecular mechanisms behind it, scientists have been unable to identify the specific processes in the body responsible, until now.
In an exciting collaboration, a team led by NDCN's Professor David Bennett , and Professor Simon Newstead in the Department of Biochemistry and Kavli Institute for NanoScience Discovery, have identified a new genetic link to pain, determined the structure of the molecular transporter that this gene encodes, and linked its function to pain.
The findings of the research, funded by Wellcome and supported by the NIHR Oxford Health Biomedical Research Centre (OH BRC), offers a promising, new, specific target against which to develop a drug to alleviate chronic pain.
In many chronic pain conditions, nociceptors - nerve cells that detect tissue injury - become overactive and send too many pain signals to the brain, causing more distress than usual.
The regulation of these signals is not fully understood, although some studies have linked these changes to polyamines - natural chemicals produced by the body to help cells carry out a variety of normal functions.
Over time, a higher concentration of polyamines is thought to contribute to over-sensitising nerve cells causing long-term damage and ultimately leading to chronic pain by sending more pain signals to the brain than usual.
This means that even low-level stimuli might feel more painful than normal.
However, until now, these theories have been unproven.
Without a known, specific target, chronic pain is hard to treat and has led to a reliance on blunt force, powerful opioids.
While effective at reducing pain, these drugs act in multiple brain pathways and can result in addiction, leading to profound, long-term, associated health impacts.
Professor David Bennett, said: 'Chronic pain remains a huge societal problem as it is becoming more common and current treatments fail.
We need to understand the mechanisms behind chronic pain in humans and importantly identify new analgesic drug targets.'
To understand why some people are more affected by chronic pain, the research team in NDCN first used UK Biobank to compare genetic data with participant responses to a questionnaire on pain.
They found that people with a variant of a gene called SLC45A4 were more likely to report higher levels of pain.
These findings were replicated when using data from other major population studies, such as FinnGen.
The researchers then set out to understand what this gene encodes.
Lead author on the paper, senior post-doctoral researcher, Dr Steven Middleton explained: 'Linking SLC45A4 to chronic pain in humans was really exciting, but the next challenge was unravelling exactly what SLC45A4 does in the body.
Remarkably, we identified that SLC45A4 is the long-awaited neuronal polyamine transporter, which is particularly important in regulating how some nerves respond to painful stimuli.
This has broadened our understanding of pain signalling in the body and opened new avenues of research directed at treating chronic pain.
Our work exemplifies the power of discovery science and multi-disciplinary collaboration.'
Collaborating with Professor Simon Newstead in the Department of Biochemistry and using cryo-electron microscopy, the team determined the structure of the transporter in humans, the first time this has been done in 3D, confirming it is responsible for sending polyamines across nerve cells.
The research team also discovered that this gene was present at high levels in the dorsal root ganglion, the region where sensory neurons carry information from skin and muscle.
Nerve cells in this region are responsible for detecting pain, with the number of signals sent to the brain responsible for modulating our pain response.
Conducting experiments in mice lacking SLC45A4 - a gene they share with humans - the animals showed a lower response to typical pain stimuli.
The mouse nervous system is not identical to humans, but there are plenty of basic mechanisms shared between them, humans and other mammals, showing promise for future research into the SLC45A4 gene.
Professor Simon Newstead said: 'Significant discoveries occur when we grasp how the complex tissues and organs in our bodies function and communicate.
Membrane transporters play a fundamental role in this communication.
Our findings now reveal a new link between membrane transport and chronic pain, paving the way for a deeper understanding of how metabolism and pain are connected in the human body.'
With further research, if a successful drug can be developed, it could reduce long-term, chronic pain without relying on strong opioids, leading to safer and more effective treatments for patients worldwide.
Professor Bennett concluded: 'We discovered a new pain gene, gained insights into the atomic structure of this molecule, and connected its function to the excitability of neurons that respond to tissue injury.
Ultimately, our findings reveal a promising new target for the treatment of chronic pain.'
The full paper ‘ SLC45A4 is a pain gene encoding a neuronal polyamine transporter ' is published in Nature .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2025-08-21-oxford-researchers-develop-uniquely-shaped-microstent-combat-glaucoma:
A team of researchers at the University of Oxford have unveiled a pioneering ‘microstent’ which could revolutionise treatment for glaucoma, a common but debilitating condition.
The study has been published in The Innovation, Cell Press .
Scanning electronic microscopy image of the microstent.
Credit: Yunlan, Zhang, Zhong You, Jared Ching.
Glaucoma is a leading cause of vision loss, second only to cataracts.
Globally, 7.7 million people were blind or visually impaired due to glaucoma in 2020 .
The condition can cause irreversible damage to the optic nerve, due to increased pressure within the eyeball.
Current treatment options – principally surgery to create openings in the eye or insert tubes to drain fluid – are highly invasive, carry risk of complications, and have limited durability.
‘Our deployable microstent represents a significant advancement in glaucoma treatment,’ said lead author Dr Yunlan Zhang (University of Oxford at the time of the study/University of Texas).
‘Current surgical implants for this type of glaucoma have been shown to have limited long-term effectiveness, being susceptible to failure due to fibrosis (scarring) in the eye.’
The new microstent features a unique structural shape that allows it to expand once in the eye.
At 200µm, less than a quarter of a millimetre, the stent’s tiny diameter enables it to fit within the needle of a standard hypodermic syringe, for minimally-invasive insertion.
Once in place and expanded, the microstent spans the fluid-filled space between the white of the eye and the membrane that covers it.
Illustration of the microstent showing the deployment.
Credit: Yunlan Zhang, Zhong You, Jared Ching.
By supporting this space, the stent reduces the excessive fluid buildup and resulting intraocular pressure in the eye which is responsible for the most common type of glaucoma, primary open-angle glaucoma.
Initial trials carried out in rabbits found that the microstents lowered eye pressure in less than a month with minimal inflammation and scarring.
Furthermore, the microstent achieved a greater reduction of eye pressure than a standard tubular implant.
This development has the potential to transform the landscape of glaucoma therapy.
By offering an enhanced solution in the minimally invasive glaucoma surgery field that combines mechanical innovation with biocompatibility, we hope to improve patient outcomes and quality of life.
Senior co-author Dr Jared Ching (Department of Engineering Science, University of Oxford).
Senior co-author, Professor Zhong You (Department of Engineering Science, University of Oxford) said: ‘Our microstent is made from a durable and super-flexible nickel-titanium alloy called nitinol, renowned for its proven long-term safety for ocular use.
Its unique material and structural properties help prevent subsequent movement, improve durability, and ensure long-term efficacy.’
The research team used advanced modelling techniques to guide the microstent's design and ensure compatibility with the anatomy of the eye.
The device's superelastic properties enable it to accommodate how the eye changes and stretches over time without permanent deformation, enhancing its durability and functionality.
Over half a million people in the UK have glaucoma – 2% of everyone over the age of 40 – and it is one of the most common causes of blindness worldwide.
The introduction of this microstent could mark a pivotal step in enhancing treatment efficacy and accessibility.
The study ‘A Novel Deployable Microstent for the Treatment of Glaucoma has been published in The Innovation, Cell Press .
For more information about this story or republishing this content, please contact [email protected] .
A schematic of the eye’s anterior segment, demonstrating the anatomical placement of the microstent.
The stent diverts aqueous humour from the anterior chamber to the suprachoroidal space through the flexible tube, creating a subconjunctival bleb supported by the expanding element.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2025-08-20-saving-bees-superfoods-new-engineered-supplement-found-boost-colony-reproduction:
A new study led by the University of Oxford could provide a cost-effective and sustainable solution to help tackle the devastating decline in honeybees.
An engineered food supplement, designed to provide essential compounds found in plant pollen, was found to significantly enhance colony reproduction.
The results have been published today in the journal Nature .
One of the Oxford Bee Lab's hives.
Credit: Caroline Wood.
The challenge: addressing a critical nutrient deficiency
Climate change and agricultural intensification have increasingly deprived honeybees of the floral diversity they need to thrive.
Pollen, the major component of their diet, contains specific lipids called sterols necessary for their development.
Increasingly, beekeepers are feeding artificial pollen substitutes to their bees due to insufficient natural pollen.
However, these commercial supplements – made of protein flour, sugars, and oils – lack the right sterol compounds, making them nutritionally incomplete.
In the new study, carried out in collaboration with Royal Botanic Gardens Kew, University of Greenwich, and the Technical University of Denmark, the research team succeeded in engineering the yeast Yarrowia lipolytica to produce a precise mixture of six key sterols that bees need.
This was then incorporated into diets fed to bee colonies during three-month feeding trials.
These took place in enclosed glasshouses to ensure the bees only fed on the treatment diets.
Our study demonstrates how we can harness synthetic biology to solve real-world ecological challenges.
Most of the pollen sterols used by bees are not available naturally in quantities that could be harvested on a commercial scale, making it otherwise impossible to create a nutritionally complete feed that is a substitute for pollen.
Senior author Professor Geraldine Wright , Department of Biology, University of Oxford
Lead author Dr Elynor Moore (Department of Biology, University of Oxford at the time of the study, now Delft University of Technology) added: “For bees, the difference between the sterol-enriched diet and conventional bee feeds would be comparable to the difference for humans between eating balanced, nutritionally complete meals and eating meals missing essential nutrients like essential fatty acids.
Using precision fermentation, we are now able to provide bees with a tailor-made feed that is nutritionally complete at the molecular level.”
From pollen to precision nutrition: Identifying and producing key bee sterols
Before this work, it was unclear which of the diverse sterols in pollen were critical for bee health.
To answer this, the researchers chemically assessed the sterol composition of tissue samples harvested from pupae and adult bees.
This required some extraordinarily delicate work; for instance, dissecting individual nurse bees to separate the guts.
The analysis identified six sterol compounds that consistently made up the majority in bee tissues: 24-methylenecholesterol, campesterol, isofucosterol, β-sitosterol, cholesterol, and desmosterol.
Using CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing, the researchers then engineered the yeast Yarrowia lipolytica to produce these sterols in a sustainable and affordable way.
Y.
lipolytica was selected since this yeast has a high lipid content, has been demonstrated as food-safe, and is already used to supplement aquaculture feeds.
To produce the sterol-enriched supplement, engineered yeast biomass was cultured in bioreactors, harvested, then dried into a powder.
Left: Jennifer Chennells weighing honeybee dietary choice tubes, Oxford Bee Lab.
Right: Worker honeybees feeding in the lab, Oxford Bee Lab.
Benefits for agriculture and biodiversity
Pollinators like honeybees contribute to the production of over 70% of leading global crops.
Severe declines – caused by a combination of nutrient deficiencies, climate change, mite infestations, viral diseases, and pesticide exposure - poses a significant threat to food security and biodiversity.
For instance, over the past decade, annual commercial honey bee colony losses in the U.S have typically ranged between 40 and 50%, and could reach 60 to 70% in 2025 .
This new engineered supplement offers a practical means to enhance colony resilience without further depleting natural floral resources.
Since the yeast biomass also contains beneficial proteins and lipids, it could potentially be expanded into a comprehensive bee feed.
Honey bees are critically important pollinators for the production of crops such as almonds, apples, and cherries and so are present in some crop locations in very large numbers, which can put pressure on limited wildflowers.
Our engineered supplement could therefore benefit wild bee species by reducing competition for limited pollen supplies.
Co-author Professor Phil Stevenson , RBG Kew and University of Greenwich
Danielle Downey (Executive Director of honeybee research nonprofit Project Apis m.
, not affiliated with the study) said: “We rely on honey bees to pollinate one in three bites of our food, yet bees face many stressors.
Good nutrition is one way to improve their resilience to these threats, and in landscapes with dwindling natural forage for bees, a more complete diet supplement could be a game changer.
This breakthrough discovery of key phytonutrients that, when included in feed supplements, allow sustained honey bee brood rearing has immense potential to improve outcomes for colony survival, and in turn the beekeeping businesses we rely on for our food production.”
Next steps and future applications
Whilst these initial results are promising, further large-scale field trials are needed to assess long-term impacts on colony health and pollination efficacy.
Potentially, the supplement could be available to farmers within two years.
This new technology could also be used to develop dietary supplements for other pollinators or farmed insects, opening new avenues for sustainable agriculture.
The paper ‘Engineered yeast provide rare but essential pollen sterols for honeybees’ has been published in Nature .
This study was supported by funding from the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, part of UK Research & Innovation.
For more information about this story or republishing this content, please contact [email protected]

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/organisation/strategic-plan-2018-24/research:
The University of Oxford is world-famous for its research excellence and home to some of the most talented scientists and scholars from across the globe.
Our work enhances the lives of millions, solving real-world problems through an extensive network of partnerships and collaborations.
The breadth of our research and the connections between disciplines drive advancement in knowledge, understanding, innovation and creativity.
COMMITMENT 1 To promote and enable ambitious research of exceptional quality
Ambitious discovery-led research undertaken to the highest standards of rigour and integrity has the potential to create the greatest impact.
We will provide our researchers with the freedom to investigate problems of significance, whether their work be curiosity-driven or challenge-led.
The breadth and depth of Oxford’s disciplinary expertise enables us to lead international research agenda across the sciences, social sciences and humanities, and to convene multidisciplinary and international teams to address the most significant problems facing the world today.
COMMITMENT 2 To invest in people, to support them and their research environment, thereby enabling the research endeavour to grow sustainably
We will provide a conducive environment for conducting research, with state-of-the-art facilities and infrastructure, appropriate support for staff and students, and investment in the training, support and wellbeing of our staff.
We will ensure that appropriate measures are in place to attract the most able minds from across the world to engage in our research.
COMMITMENT 3 To change the world for the better
Our research will impact the world through new understanding that leads to cultural, societal, political and economic change.
We are a global university with global ambition but have deep roots locally and nationally.
We will invest further in the infrastructure to facilitate regional, national and international collaboration, in the skills and people to provide capacity for such collaboration, and engage with the Global South.
We aim to maximise the cultural, social and economic benefit derived from our research regionally, nationally and across the world.
Enhance the opportunities and support for early-career researchers.
9.
Invest substantially in the research environment, both human and physical (including the estate, libraries, collections, equipment and IT) by 2024.
10.
Increase the scale and scope of our central research fund to grow our capacity to pump-prime, and match-fund major research initiatives.
11.
Engage with business, NGOs and others to grow the volume and value of non-public-sector-funded research on a sustainable basis.
12.
Continue to broaden and invest in our innovation activities and foster the entrepreneurial environment for staff and students.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/about/organisation/strategic-plan-2018-24/engagement-and-partnership:
By enhancing the public engagement, knowledge exchange and innovation culture of the University, we aim to ensure that our research and education benefit wider publics in the Oxford region, across the UK and globally.
To this end we will work in partnership with public, private, voluntary and commercial organisations, and our alumni.
COMMITMENT 1 To work with partners to create a world-class regional innovation ecosystem
Enterprise and innovation are fundamental to Oxford’s continuing research success and to its positive impact on society.
They position the University and the region as a place of opportunity which will attract the best researchers and students from around the world.
Working with our Local Enterprise Partnership, local councils, national government, Harwell and Culham science campuses, Oxford Sciences Innovation, and local and global business, we will foster an environment which nurtures social and commercial entrepreneurs.
We will invest in our capacity to increase collaborative research activity with business, industry and other external organisations, and provide enhanced support for spinouts and start-ups derived from our research through the work of Oxford University Innovation.
We will increase co-location and co-working with businesses alongside our academic research (establishing innovation centres) and will actively engage in the formation of innovation districts.
COMMITMENT 2 To build a stronger and more constructive relationship with our local and regional community
We believe that it is vitally important that the University benefits local citizens.
We will aim to increase the scale of innovation and translation in the medical and health sciences, including with our local NHS partners.
We will continue to provide gateways for public engagement with the research and teaching of the University via exhibitions, public education, schools and outreach programmes, including through the University Botanic Garden and Arboretum, Museums and Libraries, and the Oxford Research Centre in the Humanities.
We are committed to working in partnership to increase our cultural, societal and economic impact at both local and regional levels.
We will reach out to non-traditional learners through the work of our Department for Continuing Education offering flexible and blended (digital and traditional) learning.
COMMITMENT 3 To engage with the public and policy makers to shape our research and education and to encourage the widest possible use of our research findings and expertise
Working in partnership with government, business, cultural organisations and others, we will look to inform the public and public policy through our research findings.
We will also shape our research agenda, in part, through focusing attention on the issues of greatest social importance.
We believe that public engagement enriches research and society and, to that end, are committed to enabling our researchers to inspire, consult and collaborate with the public.
We seek to embed high-quality and innovative public engagement as an integral part of our research culture and practice.
We will be an active partner in the development of open scholarship, providing the tools necessary for researchers to publish and share outputs from their research and to support national and international collaboration.
Through continuing digital investment the University will reach global audiences and communities.
Oxford University Press will further the University‘s objectives of excellence in research, scholarship and education by publishing worldwide in the three intersecting markets of research, education and the learning of English.
COMMITMENT 4 Through our international engagement the University will aim to maximise the global social, cultural and economic benefit derived from our research and scholarship
Our international engagement will maintain and enhance strong institutional links across the globe, including those with the European Union, emerging economies and key partners, across the full spectrum of our research and scholarly activity.
We will maintain our commitment to in-depth study of the world’s societies and cultures, supported by the outstanding breadth of our expertise in languages, ancient and modern.
We will work to preserve and increase access to funding and networks to undertake our research and collaborate with suitable partners wherever they may be located, enabling both small- and large-scale research collaborations.
We will seek to improve mobility opportunities for students, support the role of our staff and students in an interconnected world and raise the profile of our research and teaching internationally.
19.
Expansion of the innovation districts in and around Oxford, including at Begbroke Science Park and Osney Mead.
20.
Continued investment in digital tools and infrastructure to be a leader in open scholarship and support open access to collections and research data outputs.
21.
Continue to improve the breadth and depth of public engagement through events and programmes delivered through multiple mechanisms, including the academic divisions and the Gardens, Libraries and Museums (GLAM).
22.
Expand strategic international research collaborations.
23.
Support and expand international mobility opportunities for undergraduate and postgraduate students including non-term-time internships and on-course opportunities to study, undertake research or gain work experience abroad.
24.
Inform, empower and mobilise alumni to become more knowledgeable and involved in support of the wider University.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/divisions:
The University of Oxford has four academic divisions, within which are individual departments, faculties or other centres.
Click on the headings below to reveal the different departments, faculties or centres that make up the four academic divisions, or scroll to the bottom for a video explanation of the remit of each division's research.
The Department for Continuing Education forms a fifth grouping and although not organised into separate faculties or departments, its board and teachers have the same responsibilities as the divisions.
The Humanities Division is made up of the following departments, faculties and centres:
Faculty of Classics
Faculty of English Language and Literature
Faculty of History
Faculty of Linguistics, Philology and Phonetics and Phonetics Laboratory
Faculty of Medieval and Modern Languages
Faculty of Music
Faculty of Oriental Studies
Faculty of Philosophy
The Oxford Research Centre in the Humanities
Rothermere American Institute
Ruskin School of Art
Faculty of Theology and Religion
Voltaire Foundation
The Mathematical, Physical and Life Sciences Division is made up of the following departments, faculties and centres:
Begbroke Science Park
Department of Biology
Department of Chemistry
Department of Computer Science
Department of Earth Sciences
Department of Engineering Science
Mathematical Institute
Department of Materials
Department of Physics
Department of Statistics
Doctoral Training Centre
The Medical Sciences Division is made up of the following departments, faculties and centres:
Department of Biochemistry
Nuffield Department of Clinical Medicine
Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences
Department of Experimental Psychology
Radcliffe Department of Medicine
Department of Oncology
Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics, Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal Sciences
Department of Paediatrics
Sir William Dunn School of Pathology
Department of Pharmacology
Department of Physiology, Anatomy and Genetics
Nuffield Department of Primary Care Health Sciences
Nuffield Department of Surgical Sciences
Nuffield Department of Women's & Reproductive Health
The Social Sciences Division is made up of the following departments, faculties and centres:
School of Anthropology and Museum Ethnography
School of Archaeology
Department of Economics
School of Geography and the Environment
School of Interdisciplinary Area Studies
Department of International Development
Department of Politics and International Relations
Saïd Business School
Department of Sociology
">Video of Humanities Division
">Video of Medical Sciences Division
">Video of Mathematical, Physical and Life Sciences Division
">Video of Social Sciences Division

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/cancer:
Cancer kills nearly 10 million people worldwide per year.
Half of us in the UK will have cancer in our lifetime.
Whether environmental or genetic, modifiable or unavoidable, researchers at Oxford are uncovering the causes of cancer.
Oxford is leading the drive to detect cancer earlier, using big data to revolutionise cancer research and innovating with AI to improve diagnosis.
Our experts are turning immune systems against tumours, creating vaccines against cancer and improving the outcomes for cancer patients worldwide by developing new therapies and improving existing ones.
We’re building on historic Oxford cancer breakthroughs , working with partners locally, nationally and globally to turn Oxford discoveries into life-saving realities.
Discover how Oxford’s experts are investigating the causes of cancer, and how changes to our lifestyles can help prevent disease.
See how technological advances and the use of big data is changing the way we diagnose different cancers and detect the disease earlier.
Read about how the immune system can be turned against tumours, and how our researchers are improving outcomes for patients worldwide.
Exploring how maths and stats help with cancer prevention, diagnosis and treatment – and the stories behind the researchers making it happen.
Researchers from across the University are helping to drive the prevention, detection, and treatment of cancer.
These are some of their stories.
The Director of the MRC Weatherall Institute of Molecular Medicine on his appointment as the new Chief Scientist of Cancer Research UK.
Support the work of Oxford Cancer

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/recognition/oxford-inside-out:
Celebrating collaboration that unlocks the power of research
19 – 21 September 2023
This page will stay live as a record of the types of sessions that took place.
Our research is enriched by collaboration – with community groups, businesses, policymakers, charities and others.
Oxford Inside Out will celebrate and explore the different ways in which we work together to enable our research to benefit society, locally, regionally, nationally and globally.
Oxford Inside Out is a festival of engagement with a diverse programme of workshops in which researchers from across Oxford, their partners, and some special guests will be sharing their experience through workshops, case studies, plenaries and networking opportunities.
The aim of the Festival is to showcase best practice, successes, (and challenges) of collaborative research and opportunities for engagement from across the University.
No matter what your research area, career stage or partnership interest, Oxford Inside Out has something for you.
See the programme for what’s on offer.
You are welcome to attend as many or as few sessions as they would like across the 3-day programme.
If you are a researcher, member of professional services staff or partner who would like to better understand how you can collaborate with industry, community and policy partners for your research Oxford Inside Out is the place for you.
Day 1: Blavatnik School of Government and St Luke’s Chapel, Radcliffe Observatory Quarter
Day 2: St Antony’s College and St Luke’s Chapel, Radcliffe Observatory Quarter
Day 3: St Antony’s College
Join us at the Oxford Inside Out Festival for an insightful fireside chat that delves into the world of female entrepreneurship and investment.
In this engaging one-hour session, we'll bring together entrepreneurs, investors, and experts to discuss the challenges, opportunities, and strategies that drive women-led businesses and investment initiatives.
From breaking barriers to fostering inclusivity in the startup ecosystem, this conversation will explore key topics such as access to funding, mentorship, overcoming biases, and building resilient businesses.
Whether you are considering starting a business, supporting others or simply curious about the evolving landscape of business, this fireside chat offers a platform to gain valuable insights, network, and be inspired by the journeys of successful women in the field.
This is a short documentary about an interdisciplinary public engagement project.
Through the film, the team hope to present motivations and voices of internal and external partners, and members of community groups involved in engagement activities.
Together with the videographer, Gary Tanner who documented each processes of engagement, the team explore what is public engagement with research and community groups, and what it means to people in the project.
Followed by a Q&A.
A look at our relationship with music, framed around the work of MuzoAkademy II - a non-profit community group that is part of the University's Science Together initiative.
The film will include interviews with community group members, in addition to University researchers.
This will be an opportunity to connect with Oxford Inside Out attendees and for people from different spheres of engagement to have conversations and network.
Join us for an interactive session where you can learn from others with experience of engagement projects; identify those looking to collaborate with businesses, public and community groups and policy makers; and find inspiration for getting started with engagement.
Showcase of collaborative community projects on St Vincent and Montserrat, documenting the cultural responses in film, public art and poetry to volcanic unrest and eruptions over the past 100 years.
Drop in any time - Free tea and coffee!
Stalls showcasing innovation and engagement activities.
A series of short talks exploring "Why we engage?"
1100 - Why Scientists Engage: experiences and insights gained by researchers through Shaping Destiny
1115 - Fairwork: Setting an Action-oriented Research Agenda
1200 -  Why Look to the Past: Engaged Archaeology and Montserratian Resilience
1300 - Why Use Performance Arts as a Way Of Mapping?
(The Finding Our Way Experience)
1315 - Why engage with policymakers: learning by doing.
Museum of Natural History (15 September – 15 October)
Fairwater - a pop-up exhibition
How can you engage the public and partners in your research, and what’s the value?
At this session, hear about practical ways that research and policy making can be done with people, and why this is important for impact and accountability.
Join experts who are engaging local communities, the public at a national level, government and other stakeholders for a discussion and Q&A.
Jessica Reedy on “Going from Research to Policy and Practice”: Hear about the Government Outcomes Lab’s extensive experience in balancing impactful real-world engagement with maintaining a reputation of academic excellence and rigour.
Miriam Levin on “Putting people at the heart of policymaking”: Miriam will talk about Engage Britain’s people-powered policy making process to tackle Britain’s biggest challenges, and share what works and lessons learnt.
Miriam Chappell on “Experts by experience”: Miriam will share Oxford Hub’s participatory approach to community engagement and encourage participants to think about how similar approaches can be used in a research context.
This interactive workshop will share toolkits and highlight resources available to help facilitate patient and public involvement and engagement (PPIE) in research.
The session will draw upon two case studies around stigma in infectious disease outbreaks and using art as a means of public engagement and patient empowerment.
You will learn effective methods in developing and carrying out PPIE activities, hearing from researchers and community contributors about their own PPIE journeys, approaches, and experiences.
We will share documents and processes used to support PPIE, newly developed by a network of PPIE experts at Oxford.
Participants will have the opportunity to question and discuss these approaches in an interactive and informal setting.
This workshop is aimed at everyone and anyone who finds themselves facilitating PPIE activities, or who may be interested in starting PPIE activities in the future.
The session will comprise two case studies based on our respective outreach/engagement work with young people.
In our case studies we shall cover particular approaches interventions that have worked well (and not so well!).
We shall discuss what are the current challenges in engaging and motivating young people in our respective fields (mental health research, modern languages).
In both case studies, we seek to harness the creative talents of young people to co-create resources so that they are more likely to act positively on what they have learned.
In the first part of the session, Dr Charlotte Ryland from The Queen’s College and literary charity the Stephen Spender Trust will share case studies of their successful youth outreach programmes.
These projects use ‘creative translation’ activities in UK schools to raise the profile of Polish, Urdu, Romanian and Ukrainian (collectively known as Home, Heritage and Community Languages).
You will gain insight into what inspires young people of all backgrounds to develop their creativity through cross-linguistic communication.
Dr Jonathan Patterson will also outline how these activities have formed the basis of a knowledge exchange partnership with the Department for Education.
In the second part of the session, Emily Lloyd from the Department of Experimental Psychology will speak about the CoRAY project, a knowledge mobilisation project, which responded to what young people aged 11 – 16 years told us they found difficult in terms of their mental health and wellbeing during the COVID pandemic and beyond.
Researchers and young people co-produced resources such as podcasts and films supported by creative agencies such as Fully Focused productions and BBC Bitesize.
You can also find out more about how our partnership with the Charlie Waller trust led to sharing the project outputs with teachers, parents and carers.
Meet your divisional engagement reps and talk to them about how they can support you to collaborate through your research.
In this opening session, the Vice-Chancellor will be joined by guests from City and County Councils to explore shared challenges and opportunities for better collaboration between research and policy in local and regional contexts.
In this dual session, hear about two examples of EDI & Disabled Co-Production.
Support Hub is a platform co-developed between Experian and Oxford University spinout Rogue Interrobang, that allows disabled consumers to tell multiple organisations about their support needs from a single place.
It seeks to solve one of the biggest problems disabled people face in accessing essential services: the difficulty of constantly disclosing sensitive information in order to receive the support they need.
This problem has a massive cost for disabled consumers’ wellbeing, autonomy, and finance.
In order to ensure the platform not only solved the correct problem but was itself accessible for those it seeks to help, and successfully engaged them, it involved disabled people in design, build and messaging from the earliest stage.
This case study will look at the practical challenges involved in this approach, from challenging industry-wide assumptions to framing marketing materials, from the user interface to the privacy policy.
Speakers include Dan Holloway, Rogue Interrobang CEO, who has 2 decades of intersectional experience as an advocate with lived experience (inside and outside the university).
What is it really like for neurodivergent individuals within Oxford University?
There are many barriers for neurodivergent individuals to entering, and thriving, in the workplace.
This case study will address how and why accessibility is important and how we can all make small changes so that no matter who you are, whatever challenges or abilities you have, we can overcome.
In this session, independent researcher Colin Larkworthy, who has collaborated extensively with many academics and has participated in several psychological trials in the autism field, will be talking through accessibilityin job descriptions, adaptive interviews, internal communication, retention and what he has learned from his own experiences navigating the workforce as a scientist and neurodivergent individual.
If you’ve ever asked “how did I get that job”, “where is that development I yearn for?”, or more importantly, “why is X job or jobs always out of reach?” - or if you work with people and communities who experience these difficulties (**spoiler alert – that's all of us) this session will have what you “aut” to know to start creating thriving workspaces, in alternative and innovate ways.
The session begins with a presentation summarising the variety of ways the outreach community has engaged and collaborated with teachers and school communities, along with the benefits and challenges we have each faced.
In this session, you’ll hear from college outreach colleagues, Head Teachers, Senior Leaders, Teachers, school Careers and Enrichment Leads from both Primary and secondary schools local to Oxford.
There will be panel discussion that will include audience Q&A
Our engagement and innovation have the potential to leave a positive mark on society.
But, are we always acting responsibly, ethically and with integrity?
Do we unintentionally hold back the potential for impact?
This interactive session will introduce key concepts, new opportunities and practical resources to support participants to consider and apply responsible engagement and innovation concepts to their own domain and develop tangible next steps to kickstart their own ideas.
Building on insights from the Responsible knowledge exchange, engagement and impact project and EPSRC’s Responsible Research and Innovation Principles, the session will introduce what it means to be responsible and why it matters before working through interactive exercises that will give participants practical insights and tools for implementing responsible engagement and innovation, including sharing potential sources of funding and support.
This session is suitable for researchers at all stages (inc.
DPhil) and those supporting researchers in all disciplines.
Pitch @ the Pub is a fun and engaging way to find out about new and up-and-coming startups, spinouts and social enterprises in Oxford.
The purpose is to raise awareness about local startups/ventures in the local area.
Our chosen pitchers will have a few minutes each to talk about their startups, and show the audience what they are working on.
Come prepared to ask questions, and join in with the other attendees and pitchers!
If you have a link to Oxford(shire) and are interested in pitching, let us know.
.
we run this event regularly so there is always an opportunity to pitch!
Introductory 1:1 meetings for Small to Medium Sized Enterprises to get to know how you can engage with the University of Oxford run by Dr Charlotte Bell, Senior Business Partnerships Manager, Business Partnerships Office (Medical Sciences).
This session is open to all SMEs regardless of subject area.
Once registered you will be sent an email with details of how to book your 30 minute slot.
Capacity:15
Attendees can make an expression of interest to attend.
When it comes to tackling the climatecrisis in Oxfordshire, what are the dilemmas and decisions that local policymakers have to make?
When it comes to issues related to climate -- including energy, food, and transport, who exactly gets to make those decisions, and how?
What kind of evidence do they need – and where can they find it?
This session is a must for anyone with ideas for how to respond to any of these questions.
Join our team of academics and guests from across the local climateecosystem to help lay the foundations for more effective collaboration.
We’ll kick off with a scene-setting panel session, including researchers, policy-makers, and change-makers from across the University, the City, and the County, followed by a hackathon to map the local landscape of research and policy evidence and expertise, and to pool ideas as to how we might make strengthen collaboration across the system.
We’ll then conclude the session by teasing out a range of actionable next steps.
Innovation is becoming increasingly prevalent in research funding guidelines, as well as being at the centre of many policymaker priorities from local to national and international.
Traditionally seen as STEM-focused, innovation is now encouraged across disciplinary fields.
It’s not always obvious how humanities research might connect with current industry or social challenges, or when the right moment arises to share emerging research.
What does innovation even mean in a humanities context?
How do we embrace the full potential of humanities involvement in innovation?
This plenary session will address the question in 3 ways: 1.
Present ‘A Short History of Innovation’; 2.
Share the current challenges of engaging with innovation from the humanities; 3.
Hear case studies from humanities-based researchers (and/or partners) who have experience engaging with innovation.
From 2017-2022, the university’s Wellcome Centre for Integrative Neuroimaging (WIN) partnered with Banbury Museum & Gallery to develop a family-friendly neuroscience exhibition, “Your Amazing Brain”.
The exhibition and accompanying events programme ran in Banbury in 2022 and then at the Discover Bucks museum (Aylesbury) in 2022-2023.
Join the WIN team and their museum collaborators for an interactive discussion about the benefits and challenges of museum/science collaborations; the importance of collaborations outside of Oxford city centre; and key learnings from the Your Amazing Brain partnership that may be useful to others pursing this type of project.
We’d also love to hear perspectives from attendees about their own collaborations and what they have learned.
This session is aimed at researchers (including doctoral students) and professional services staff.
The speakers will be a mix of researchers, professional services staff, and external museum professionals, sharing their different perspectives on the collaborative process.
Join the Vice-Chancellor and an expert panel who will be discussing what can be done to mobilise university-industry-government partnerships to develop solutions at the pace and scale necessary to tackle the big issues facing society today.
This is an online event and will be hosted by the National Centre for Universities and Business with separate registration.
Explore social prescribing and how it works in practice across sectors including the cultural sector and green spaces; what working in partnership with charities and community organisations can offer and what makes a meaningful research collaboration that can make a difference for mental health across generations.
This session is open to anyone interested in social prescribing, wellbeing, mental health research and collaborations, within and beyond the University.
A chance to meet new collaborators and discover a range of approaches to mental health and wellbeing activities.
The Centre for Research into Energy Demand Solutions (CREDS) was created with impact in mind as one of its 3 main aims.
Our knowledge exchange team of 8 works with 160+ researchers from multiple disciplines and institutions.
As CREDS neared its final year, we wanted to create an accessible output to share our energy demand story: with evidence, a coherent narrative across all research themes, and recommendations for all.
In this workshop, we will share how we created an inter-disciplinary synthesis of findings from nine themes and used this to build a stakeholder-friendly suite of outputs.
We will encourage your questions and comments about our approach.
We will describe the value to our research community and how we have used the outputs with existing and new audiences.
For: programme managers, knowledge exchange/impact professionals, researchers with an interest in enhancing their engagement with stakeholders.
How can we better understand socially marginalised women’s experience of healthcare?
What do researchers, community representatives and other potential partners bring to the process of improving equity in accessing healthcare?
To explore these and related questions Dr Tanvi Rai and Ms Sarah Harris will be joined by Cllr Shaista Aziz and Ms Fatou Badjie Ceesay as part of a panel discussion.
We will explore the power of storytelling with Medical Herstory and discuss best practices for community engagement, illustrated by actual examples of such engagement during research projects.
We will also reflect on bridging health research and activism around social justice, such that we do not reproduce the same injustices in research practice that exist in society.
This panel will explore a multi-year collaboration between academics and creative practitioners, which has culminated in a theatre show inspired by lost texts from the ancient world, and the human urge to piece together a story from scraps of information.
The panel will feature the lead academic on the project, Laura Swift, along with artists who were involved.
We will talk about how the research ideas fed into design, staging, sound and music, and how we created an innovative form of shadow puppetry inspired by Greek papyri.
We hope to include live demonstration by artists as well as filmed footage.
We will discuss the process of the collaboration, and the challenges and opportunities it led to.
It will be of interest to researchers/graduate students who would like to form partnerships beyond academia, and potentially to professional services staff who facilitate this type of partnership.
Join Professor Alison Woollard, University of Oxford's Public and Community Engagement Champion and Paul Manners, National Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement as they explore the direction of travel for Public and Community Engagement with Research.
Join Jan Royall and Jeremy Long for a fireside chat and learn about the aims and the work of the recently established Oxfordshire Inclusive Economy Partnership (OIEP), which aims to bring together key players to tackle some of the inequalities for communities and individuals in our County.
Oxfordshire is home to significant inequalities.
It is only one of three regions that contributes a surplus to the UK economy, but despite its global position and affluence, its wealth and opportunities are not evenly distributed.
The Oxfordshire Inclusive Economy Partnership is working together to create a more inclusive region that creates opportunities and benefits for all people within the county.
The Oxfordshire Inclusive Economy Partnership (OIEP) is a county-wide group that brings together employers, business, education, community groups and local government – with the aim of working together to create opportunities and benefits for all people within the county.
They do this by sharing knowledge, expertise and resources, and creating links between different areas of work.
Their four focus areas to deliver their vision are: educational attainment, inclusive employment, social value and procurement, and place-based interventions.
Baroness Jan Royall is Co-chair Oxfordshire Inclusive Economy Partnership, principal of Somerville College and was appointed to the Lords in 2004.
She was appointed Leader of the Lords in 2008 and a member of Cabinet.
Jan previously worked in the European Commission, in the UK Parliament and in the European Parliament.
She is a Trustee of Full Fact (an independent fact checking charity), the University’s Observer on the Board of Skylark Works and is associated with many charities and voluntary organisations.
Jeremy Long is Co-Chair of the Oxfordshire Inclusive Economy Partnership (OIEP), former Chair of Oxfordshire Local Enterprise Partnership (OxLEP), and has several non-executive roles, including as Chair of local energy efficiency installation business EnergyMyWay.
As researchers, what strategies can we pursue to maximise the value of our expertise and evidence for public policy, and shape outcomes in the wider world?
How do policymakers engage with different kinds of expertise, and research in different disciplines?
To explore these questions – and pose your own – why not join Helen Margetts and Christl Donnelly, as their reflect on their experience of research and collaboration with policymakers in government and Parliament aimed at changing lives for the better?
OSEP and Oxford University Innovation are hosting a mixer for anyone interested or working in social enterprises or purposeful businesses.
Come along to meet like-minded people from the university and Oxfordshire ecosystem who are interested in tackling some of the world’s biggest challenges but want to do business differently.
We hope you’ll learn from others about their social ventures, and have the chance to share your ideas and passions.
All welcome from across the University and local ecosystem.
More than a quarter of the world’s children live in countries affected by crises, including those caused by conflict and climate breakdown.
These children face the risk – and often, reality – of violence, exploitation, and neglect.
They and their families are often left to deal with mental health challenges and other consequences that could last a lifetime.
The Parenting for Lifelong Health team at the University of Oxford has been working with UN agencies and other organisations to develop open-source, evidence-based parenting resources to support families affected by crises, which have been translated into over 30 languages and benefited over 16 million people, including in Pakistan, Sudan, Syria, Sudan, Turkey, and Ukraine.
Join us, our collaborators and guests to explore how we can improve the way we collaborate with policymakers and affected communities to support families and vulnerable children in crisis.
This panel session will demonstrate how the Heritage Partnerships Team in Humanities has successfully used student internship and placement programmes to develop and grow innovative research partnerships with external heritage organisations for the benefit of the wider research and engagement community at Oxford.
Featuring colleagues from the Heritage Partnerships Team, external partner organisations, the Careers Service and training colleagues, this panel will give practical tips and insights into developing large-scale collaborations through small-scale student activities.
Third sector organisations The Brilliant Club (KS2-5), Universify (YR10-11) IntoUniversity (KS2-5) and Parent Power (parents of secondary school children) come together to showcase how they each engage with Oxford’s local communities.
These fantastic attainment-raising and community engagement organisations have some powerful “Lessons Learned” to share, including those relating to post pandemic engagement, which may be of particular interest to researchers and other University colleagues hoping to engage more effectively with local communities far and wide.
Listen to a panel discussion and take part in Q&A to hear more and even explore how you could share your research, expertise and skills for the benefit of local communities.
This session will provide an introduction to PPI – what it is, why it is important and how to get started with it for your project.
It may be of interest to health/medical researchers and students, as well as staff who take on responsibility for supporting or managing PPI activities.
Please register for this session here
Through the University of Oxford’s Public and Community Engagement Seed Fund, we were able to set up an Experts by Experience Advisory Board with people with lived experience of having no recourse to public funds, to advise our ‘Understanding Migrant Destitution in the UK’ research project.
The funding also enabled us to set up a partnership with a third-sector organisation to offer research training to members of the Experts by Experience Advisory Board so they could be involved as peer researchers during focus groups.
The panel will involve both university-based researchers as well as members from our Experts by Experience Advisory Board discussing the learning from this pilot participatory research project and the logistics required and ethical factors to consider that can hinder or promote the potential for impact of participatory research.
Twice as many Black trainees in England on all secondary training routes had either failed to be awarded Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) or were yet to complete their training, compared to White trainees (Department for Education, 2021).
While the experiences of minoritised groups in the education system in England (Bradbury, Tereshchenko & Mills, 2023) reveal the continued power of race in the education system.
This session seeks to explore mechanisms that may enable better outcomes that include:
Oxford researchers, practitioners and public contributors will present the latest research on the impact of patient and public involvement in UK health research and community engagement in global health research.
They will share practical actions from current projects while considering:
Presentations and discussion will be followed by audience Q&A.
Are you interested in using your research and public engagement skills to support local communities?
Or in using your expertise and knowledge to make research more relevant to problems your community needs help solving?
Our research interests touch on everything from history to food to medical science and we will explore how partnership bonds can be formed between researchers, businesses, and local community groups.
Our session will be split into a panel/ Q & A for the first half followed by a “What do we need, what do we know” networking skills sharing exercise in partnership building suitable for researchers, professional services staff, community groups, or anyone else curious about how partnerships are built, maintained, and grown and how they can get involved.
The Rumble Museum at Cheney School is a unique educational initiative that has the potential to be embedded in a range of learning environments, and to be used in a range of different types of research.
They are the only arts council accredited museum that is spread throughout a busy and very diverse state school.
They have carried out a range of projects with learners from all backgrounds and abilities, including at risk of exclusion and special needs students, and discovered that working with artefacts is a very effective way of engaging the broadest range of young people.
Lessons in Chemistry is a set of co-created interactive workshops which showcase current research from the Department of Chemistry and its collaborators on sustainable polymers, green fuels and AMR.
Learn more about the process from concept, funding, development, trialling, delivery and evaluation.
Reflections from the researchers and professional staff involved will highlight the benefits and challenges of undertaking such engagement and the lessons learnt.
The closing plenary session will focus on 'The Future of Engagement', and will have a particular focus on ways in which the University can work collaboratively with business, local government, and community to have impact locally within Oxford(shire).
In order to give a geographical focus, the speakers will explore the potential role for collaboration within one particular community in Oxford – Blackbird Leys.
Join us for drinks and light refreshments.
When you register, you will can select the sessions you would like to attend.
You can register for as many sessions as you like but should only register for those sessions that you are sure you will attend, to avoid others missing out.
You can come for a whole day, all three days, or just the sessions that catch your interest.
If you need a space to work between sessions, we will offer quiet working spaces throughout the venue.
Oxford Inside Out is funded by the University’s allocations from Research England’s Higher Education Innovation and Policy Support Funds.
There is no charge for participation.
Accessibility guides for all venues are available here: Blavatnik School of Government; St Luke’s Chapel; St Antony’s College
The dual session: Support Hub: A case study of the intersection of expertise and (lived) experience AND Co – Production within the workplace: An Autistic/ Neurodivergent Exploration on Tuesday 19 September at 14:30 will offer sign language interpretation.
If you have accessibility requirements please get in touch with the Organising Committee at [email protected] (please put Oxford Inside Out in the subject title) and they will do their best to accommodate you.
Tea and coffee will be available during breaks and both venues are close to a selection of lunch options.
You are invited to three days packed with learning and networking opportunities: workshops, panel discussions, exhibitions and more, touching on a range of the many shared interests of our researchers and their partners.
Oxford Inside Out will:
Enable our researchers, professional services staff, partners and potential partners to
Learn more about the range of opportunities for engagement
Explore the mutual benefits and challenges of working together
Connect with others who share their interests
Recognise excellent and innovative practice, and highlight the good that can come from engagement and how it benefits research and the wider world
Raise awareness among researchers and professional services staff of the resources available to support engagement, and diversify uptake of related internal funding
Broaden and deepen participation by researchers and professional services staff in relevant networks
Oxford Inside Out is funded by Research England’s Higher Education Innovation and Policy Support Funds, and builds on the University’s experience of similar events, including the Oxford Policy Engagement Network (OPEN) Showcase 2022 and successive annual Public Engagement with Research (PER) Conferences.
Our steering group

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/support-researchers/new-oxford:
Welcome to the University of Oxford, and congratulations on your appointment to a research position.
You're joining a community of around 5,000 research staff across the University who make an invaluable contribution to our position as one of the best places in the world to do research.
You can find pages about working at the University on the Staff Gateway , including advice about living in Oxford, an introduction to the University, and other useful information about staff benefits; information about moving to Oxford is available from the Oxford University Welcome Service .
Oxford has a huge amount to offer; keep an eye on the University News and Events page.
Consult your line manager/PI or supervisor and your departmental administrator if you're unsure about anything.
Checklist for your first three months

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/using-research-engage/policy-engagement/guidance-and-resources:
Public policy engagement can be formal or informal.
Formal policy engagement approaches and opportunities, particularly in the UK, are developing rapidly, and can include government consultations, parliamentary inquiries, delivery of evidence synthesis, partnerships, and fellowships and placements.
Informal policy engagement often focuses on the development and maintenance of productive networks and conversations between researchers and policymakers, informal advice, and the ad hoc engagement of government.
These pages provide links to useful guidance notes and documents, as well as audio and video resources to support policy engagement.
Links to resources developed by the University of Oxford and other organisations, covering general approaches to policy engagement and skills such as evidence synthesis.
Links to lists of the UK Government's thematic departments, Arms Length Bodies, and Areas of Research Interest.
Links to resources developed by UK Parliament to help understand how parliament works and how to engage with parliamentary processes.
Links to useful guidance on how to design policy engagement approaches into research project design.
A series of guidance notes designed for researchers who are interested in engaging with national and sub-national governments across the world, and with the international organisations who exert influence on national policies.
A series of guidance notes, tools and other resources, primarily for researchers and research support staff, to help them monitor and evaluate engagement with public policy, and learn from it.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/using-research-engage/policy-engagement/opportunities:
Internal and external funding opportunities for public policy engagement projects, fellowships, partnerships, and events
Institutions, including the UK Parliament, seeking inputs and reviews from academics and researchers for briefings for policymakers

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/using-research-engage/policy-engagement/training-and-development:
Policy engagement training and development opportunities for academics and researchers are provided by the Policy Engagement team and by the University more broadly.
See the OPEN calendar of upcoming events here.
Find workshops, talks and other opportunities to hear from policymakers and researchers on their experiences with policy engagement and to increase your skills.
This boundary-spanning scheme aims to bring together researchers and policy professionals with a shared interest in connecting research and policy for a peer-to-peer approach to mentoring.
Our flagship platform for expert dialogue, bringing together research and policy professionals to tackle some of society’s most pressing challenges and identify avenues for collaboration
Talks and events across the University of Oxford that support students' and researchers' understanding of, and engagement with, local, regional, national and international public policy.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/using-research-engage/policy-engagement/oxford-policy-engagement-network1:
The Oxford Policy Engagement Network (OPEN) enables research and policy professionals to join forces in shaping public policy that protects what is valuable and changes the world for the better.
Since its launch in 2020, the network has grown to include research professionals and students in more than 50 departments and faculties, as well as policy professionals in Oxford, across Whitehall and the UK, and around the world.
Find out more about policy engagement at Oxford here .
You can also follow OPEN on LinkedIn and Bluesky .
If you’re a researcher, doctoral student or member of the professional services staff at Oxford with a passion for public policy, you can join OPEN.
This film series showcases what they have learned.
The OPEN Strategy 2025-30
Find our more about OPEN Fellowships and meet some of our current and past OPEN Fellows.
Discover policy engagement opportunities, funding calls, guidance and resources, and training and development opportunities for researchers and academics at the University of Oxford.
The OPEN Visiting Fellowship is a mutual learning and development opportunity for research and policy professionals.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/support-researchers/using-research-engage/conversation:
The Conversation is an online source of thought-provoking articles written by researchers and academics, across all disciplines, for the public in the UK and globally.
It provides a platform for researchers to raise the profile of their research and engage the wider world, with the freedom to discuss topical issues in a more nuanced way than is typically offered by traditional media outlets.
Oxford is a member of The Conversation and as such receives regular opportunities for researchers and academics across the University to contribute articles and to take part in hands-on training to enhance writing and engagement skills.
The articles are often picked up by other media (including the BBC, The Guardian, The Washington Post) resulting in even greater reach to audiences that can include academics, policymakers, funders and the public.
To date, over 600 Oxford researchers and academics, at all levels, have published articles attracting 30 million readers from across the world.
The University has teamed up with The Conversation to offer a range of training opportunities to researchers and academics.
Each of the divisions will have a number of visits from relevant editors and there is something for everyone on offer; from introductory sessions, to short workshops, and one-to-one drop-in clinics.
Details available from Divisional newsletters etc or contact your Divisional contact provided above.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/research/using-research-engage/impact-support:
There is a wide range of support and guidance for the planning and evaluation of research impact, from the University and beyond
This page provides supporting materials for the Research Impact e-Learning course for Oxford researchers (SSO login required):

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news-and-events/The-University-Year:
The academic year at Oxford University runs from October to June.
The year is divided into three eight week terms, Michaelmas (autumn), Hilary (spring), and Trinity (summer).
These are the regular high-profile events and varsity sports.
Oxford's annual ceremony to award honorary degrees.
A termly event convened by the Vice-Chancellor aimed to promote discussions about the big issues of the day.
The principal lecture held in Oxford and open to the public.
250,000 spectators watch the world famous Oxford and Cambridge boat race each year.
The main Oxford Alumni event takes place in September.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2025-03-25-oxford-tops-national-spinout-rankings-2025-report:
Oxford University Innovation (OUI) has been instrumental in maintaining the University of Oxford’s position as the UK’s leading source of academic spinouts, as revealed in the 2025 edition of Spotlight on Spinouts , published today by the Royal Academy of Engineering’s Enterprise Hub in partnership with Beauhurst.
The report finds that just ten universities are responsible for 53% of the UK’s spinouts, with Oxford securing the top position.
Oxford’s success reflects its world-class research base, deep commercialisation expertise, and a strong network of investors and partners.
This year’s report also highlights a significant reduction in the equity stakes taken by universities in spinouts.
In 2024, the average university stake dropped to 16% – down from 22% the year before – indicating positive movement in line with recommendations made in the UK Government’s Independent Review of University Spin-out Companies.
These shifts aim to better incentivise founders and strengthen the long-term prospects of spinout businesses.
A companion paper released alongside the report, UK Spinouts – A Status Update , notes that over 50 institutions including Oxford are now aligning with emerging best practices in spinout creation.
The Royal Academy of Engineering calls for a continued shift towards more equitable equity splits between universities, founders, and leadership teams to foster sustainable growth.
In a challenging investment climate, university spinouts collectively raised £2.6 billion in 2024 – a 38% increase on the previous year, bucking wider market trends.
Oxford Science Enterprises remains among the UK’s most active investors, further reinforcing Oxford’s ability to scale cutting-edge research into impactful ventures.
The life sciences sector continues to dominate in terms of spinout creation, particularly within the Golden Triangle of Oxford, Cambridge, and London.
Oxford alone has founded 53 pharmaceutical spinouts to date – more than any other UK institution.
Oxford is also making notable progress in addressing gender imbalance across the spinout ecosystem.
As of January 2025, 24% of Oxford spinouts have female founders – well above the national average.
Mairi Gibbs , CEO of Oxford University Innovation, said: 'Oxford continues to lead the UK’s spinout ecosystem, and we’re proud of our many successful companies which are delivering real impact from Oxford’s research and expertise along with economic growth for the UK.
At Oxford University Innovation, we are committed to supporting world-class innovation and working with partners to ensure spinouts have the infrastructure, funding, and strategic guidance they need to thrive.'
Ana Avaliani, Director of the Royal Academy of Engineering’s Enterprise Hub, said: 'Five years from our first report on spinouts, we are proud of the impact we have achieved.
Our data has sparked debate and been used by founders, investors, tech transfer leaders and policy makers to understand the bigger picture and make informed decisions.'
Paul Taylor CBE FREng, Chair of the Enterprise Committee, added: 'It’s encouraging to see equity stakes reaching a decade low, signalling progress toward a more founder-friendly environment.
This aligns with many of the principles we’ve long championed.'
Read Spotlight on Spinouts 2025 and UK Spinouts – A Status Update on the Royal Academy of Engineering website.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2024-10-09-oxford-named-best-university-world-record-ninth-consecutive-year:
Oxford University has been world number one in the Times Higher Education World University Rankings since 2017 - the longest time any university has held the position in the 21 annual editions of the rankings.
Oxford University has once again topped the Times Higher Education World University Rankings in the largest and most inclusive year to date with a record 2,092 universities having been ranked from 115 countries.
Oxford has been world number one since 2017 - the longest time any university has held the position in the 21 annual editions of the rankings – nine consecutive years.
Harvard University and the California Institute of Technology (Caltech) are the only other universities to have topped the rankings.
I am indebted to all of my colleagues at Oxford whose work continues to fire our imaginations, inspire generations, and confront some of the greatest challenges facing our planet
Vice-Chancellor, Professor Irene Tracey
Professor Irene Tracey, CBE, FRS, FMedSci, Vice-Chancellor, University of Oxford, said: ‘I am absolutely delighted that we have consolidated our position at the top of the Times Higher Education World University Rankings for a ninth consecutive year.
This achievement is testament to our extraordinarily talented and committed academics, researchers and staff, who deliver exceptional standards of teaching and learning and conduct globally impactful research.
Above all, I am indebted to all of my colleagues at Oxford whose work continues to fire our imaginations, inspire generations, and confront some of the greatest challenges facing our planet.’
Phil Baty, THE's Chief Global Affairs Officer, said: ‘The Times Higher Education World University Rankings evaluate the performance of the leading global research-intensive universities – and it is the truly global nature of Oxford’s work that has helped it to retain the world number one position for a record-breaking nine years.
‘Oxford excels across our wide range of performance indicators, covering teaching, research and industry collaboration, but it stands above its world-leading counterparts in the US for the depth of its international research collaborations and its ability to draw-in international talent.
Oxford is truly a beacon for global Britain.’
The process for the THE World Rankings is a rigorous piece of research with more than 2,800 leading research universities assessed as well as an academic survey based on over 90,000 responses worldwide.
In excess of 150 million citations are also analysed to over 18 million research papers.
Oxford is truly a beacon for global Britain
Phil Baty, THE's Chief Global Affairs Officer
The ranking is based on 18 specific metrics, covering all core missions of global, research-led universities, incorporated into five ‘pillars’: research environment (including income and reputation data); research excellence; the teaching environment; international outlook (such as research collaboration); and industry (including industry income and patent citations).
One of the metrics (study abroad) currently has zero weight but will be counted in future.
Oxford is exceptionally strong across all pillars but has an advantage due to its international outlook and patent citations; an additional metric that has been introduced to the industry score.
News about the results of the rankings was announced to around 500 international guests at the World Academic Summit on the night of October 8.
Oxford was followed in the THE World Rankings 2025 by Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard University, placed second and third respectively.
View the full THE World University Rankings 2025 here .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2025-06-17-oxford-academics-awarded-european-research-council-advanced-grants-cutting-edge:
Seven researchers at the University of Oxford have been awarded Advanced Grants from the European Research Council, each worth up to €2.5 million over a period of five years.
The ERC Advanced Grants competition , part of the EU’s Horizon Europe programme, is one of the most prestigious and competitive funding schemes in the EU.
It gives senior researchers the opportunity to pursue ambitious, curiosity-driven projects that could lead to major scientific breakthroughs.
This year, the competition attracted 2,534 proposals, which were reviewed by panels of internationally renowned researchers.
Only 281 (11 %) of proposals were selected for funding.
President of the European Research Council, Professor Maria Leptin said: ‘Congratulations to the new grant winners!
Much of this pioneering research will contribute to solving some of the most pressing challenges we face - social, economic and environmental, etc.’
The seven Oxford recipients represent a diverse range of research fields across the Medical Sciences and Mathematical, Physical and Life Sciences Divisions:
This prestigious funding support will help us drive our new vision at Oxford with great momentum.
Credit goes to numerous former and present team members whose enormous efforts crucially helped the lab to build paradigmatic foundations in the field.
We look forward to unravelling complex problems through our project.
Professor Yimon Aye , Department of Chemistry
Professor Aye’s project aims to develop technologies that can map with unprecedented resolution in living organisms the bioactivity of small molecules called immunometabolites.
These chemical signals have poorly-described signalling behaviours, but are believed to have important functions in fine-tuning locale-specific immune responses.
Decoding their cell-specific signalling activities could open up new opportunities for precision therapies.
Through collaborating with clinicians at Oxford and elsewhere, Professor Aye aims to access clinical samples and unique disease models, to help translate new insights directly towards healthcare advances.
Receiving this competitive grant is an honour reserved for few, and it validates the importance of my research vision: that we must have a modern understanding of a long-overlooked neural system.
This support enables my lab to pursue neuroscience-driven strategies for safe and cheaper obesity treatments—uncovering mechanisms that benefit millions.
Professor Ana Domingos , Department of Physiology, Anatomy & Genetics (DPAG)
The brain helps control body weight by sending signals through the sympathetic nervous system.
However, trying to treat obesity by targeting this system has raised concerns about possible side effects on the heart.
This stems from the fact that very little is known about how these nerve networks are organised, mainly due to their anatomical inaccessibility.
Professor Domingos’ lab is addressing this by developing advanced imaging and single-cell technologies to map the specific nerve cells that control fat burning without affecting the heart.
Using the ERC Advanced Grant, she will characterise these neurons across different species used in drug development.
Ultimately, her goal is to discover new ways to boost fat burning without affecting appetite or heart health, through a systems-level approach to sympathetic neuroscience.
Being awarded this grant is a testament to the talented people in my group who were pivotal in developing the ideas and preliminary data for the project.
I am excited to work with them to pursue our goal of predictive microbiome science.
Professor Kevin Foster , Sir William Dunn School of Pathology
Professor Foster’s work focuses on the microbial communities that live on us and all around us, including the human gut microbiome.
These communities contain many evolving and interacting species, which has made them notoriously difficult to understand and predict .
Using the ERC Advanced Grant, he will tackle this complexity by focusing on something that unifies all microbial communities: metabolism and the need of microbes to harvest nutrients.
By bridging metabolism and ecology, the goal is to predict how particular sets of species will behave in combination and establish the principles needed to rationally manipulate our own microbiomes.
From left to right: Professor Yimon Aye, Professor Ana Domingos, Professor Kevin Foster.
I am looking forward to addressing a problem which is at the edge of our understanding of the transmission of infectious diseases, but at the forefront of the individual and public health implications of these complex infections - in partnership with our fabulous team of researchers and collaborators.
Professor Deirdre Hollingsworth , NDM Centre for Global Health Research and Big Data Institute, Nuffield Department of Medicine
Professor Hollingsworth’s project will focus on understanding interactions between neglected tropical diseases (NTDs), malaria and other diseases.
While these diseases often affect the same communities, their dynamics are usually studied independently, despite some evidence that they can interact with each other in ways that impact disease transmission and control.
Professor Hollingsworth will use advanced computer models and data analysis to map where these diseases overlap, study how they interact, and test how combining control efforts could improve health outcomes.
The main goals are to better understand the fundamental biology of co-infections with NTDs, TB, malaria and HIV/AIDS, and help policy makers design better strategies to fight multiple diseases at once, ultimately improving the lives of some of the world’s most vulnerable populations.
I am deeply heartened by the community’s intellectual support for blue-sky science that pushes beyond long-standing, entrenched paradigms.
As is often the case, real-world impacts soon follow.
Professor Madhavi Krishnan, Department of Chemistry
It is a well-known principle that like charges repel, whether positive or negative.
However, experiments on like-charged matter suspended in liquids have frequently reported the opposite: attraction , rather than repulsion.
This puzzling phenomenon remained an open question for decades.
Recent work by Professor Krishnan identified solvent molecules at the interface between the charged object and the surrounding fluid as the key players driving this seemingly anomalous interaction.
Her ERC project aims to explore the origins and consequences of counterintuitive long-range forces between objects in solution.
Given that much of chemistry—and essentially all of biology—unfolds in fluid environments, this work could hold profound implications for a range of fields.
I am very grateful to the ERC for giving me the time and freedom to think about fundamental questions in a sustained way.
My collaborators, postdocs and students have been an important part of this journey, and I look forward to continuing our work together.
Professor Rahul Santhanam , Department of Computer Science
Professor Santhanam’s research focus is complexity theory, which studies the possibilities and limits of algorithms in a mathematical framework.
In his ERC project, he will attack long-standing open questions on the limits of algorithms and mathematical proofs, such as the famous P vs NP question, and seek to develop a deeper understanding of the relationship between algorithms and proofs.
His approach to these questions is based on the emerging area of “meta-complexity”, which studies the difficulty of determining whether a given dataset can be compressed.
The research is motivated by applications in learning, cryptography and automated reasoning, among other areas.
I am truly privileged to receive this ERC award after moving to Oxford only two years ago.
Oxford University has been world-leading in establishing a number of very large human biobanks for research purposes, and data from these are essential for my ERC-funded research.
I look forward to working with outstanding researchers across disciplines and departments on the project.
Professor Peter Visscher , Oxford Population Health
Understanding human genetic variation is important, since this influences differences in disease risk, lifespan, and behaviour, and impacts how societies are organised.
However, despite enormous advances in DNA sequencing technologies and the discovery of hundreds of thousands of DNA variants statistically associated with complex traits, we still have little information on which variants are causative, what traits they affect, and how they function.
Professor Visscher’s project aims to quantify the full range of human traits influenced by genetics and pinpoint the specific DNA changes responsible for each one, by applying new statistical methods on data from millions of human genomes and thousands of traits.
Further information about the 2025 ERC Advanced Grants recipients can be found on the ERC website.
From left to right: Professor Deirdre Hollingsworth, Professor Madhavi Krishnan, Professor Rahul Santhanam, Professor Peter Visscher.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news-and-events/oxford-people/caroline-green:
AI ethics not only concerns philosophers, computer scientists, policy makers or lawyers - AI is increasingly part of people's lives.
We must ensure that it's developed, rolled out and used responsibly; in a way that does not reinforce inequalities or undermine the values that critical, life-improving actions - such as providing social care - are built on.
This is a concern that drives Dr Caroline Green , Director of Research and Head of Public Engagement at the University of Oxford’s Institute for Ethics in AI , and lead of the Accelerator Fellowship Programme .
Dr Green is rapidly becoming one of UK’s leading voices on the responsible use of artificial intelligence in adult social care.
A Senior Research Fellow in Social Sciences at Jesus College, her scholarship sits at the nexus of AI governance, human rights and gerontology.
Whilst acknowledging that AI can benefit humanity, Dr Green maintains the importance of ensuring the responsible development, use and roll out of the technology across people’s lives.
As artificial intelligence becomes more embedded in everyday life, the social care sector in particular stands at a critical crossroads.
Without a clear roadmap, the use of AI – while full of potential to improve peoples’ lives – risks reinforcing inequalities or undermining the very values care is built on.
A passion for care
It is important to remember that older people are not the problem here.
The lack of adequate structures and ageism are some of the major factors we need to address urgently.
AI and technology can make an immense difference to build systems that are fit for our ageing populations
Dr Caroline Green
With a background in human rights and a PhD in gerontology, focussing on human rights in care homes for older people, Dr Green’s work is driven by a dedication to improve the lives of people who need care and support and the passion she sees in the people working in care in the UK and in other countries:
'In the UK specifically, we have a foundation of what I call "fundamental values of care", many of which are enshrined in law.'
Still, many people are not receiving the access, level or quality of care they need and deserve.
That passion keeps drawing her to the topic, as well as her interest to contribute to building systems fit for our ageing populations.
'It is important to remember that older people are not the problem here.
AI and technology can make an immense difference to build systems that are fit for our ageing populations.'
Care is a universal experience
It was through my grandparents and working with people in care homes for older people that I saw what matters the most at the end of life.
Next to good care, it is the people around us, empathy, love, forgiveness...
I love the richness in what care means.
That's why I am working in this area - it's such a human topic, full of emotions and the realities of living and dying.
We all receive and care for others at some point in our lives.
Dr Green herself has seen her grandparents, who suffered with cancer and dementia, being cared for by multiple generations of her family in different settings: at home, in hospitals, in care homes.
'It was through my grandparents and working with people in care homes for older people that I saw what matters the most at the end of life.
That's why I am working in this area - it's such a human topic, full of emotions and the realities of living and dying.'
Social care in public narratives is often reduced to tasks like helping someone with the activities of daily life, but social care consists of much more.
For example, helping someone  shower is not just about the task itself.
It is also about the quality of the interaction between the person receiving care and the caregiver.
These interactions can have a major impact on whether someone feels comfortable being supported in this task or goes away feeling ashamed.
It’s about the quality of relationships.
AI's role in social care
AI and technology generally can really benefit people in care.
It could help people to stay independent for longer, to stay in their homes, to support caregiving informally at home.
It can help to lift the heavy administrative burden for professional carers.
Yet we must make sure that we do not roll out AI and technology across social care blindly – there are risks that must be mitigated.
The use of AI applications in social care settings like care homes is not new.
Common examples include fall-detection systems and pain analysis for people who cannot verbalise it - but the wide availability of new generative AI systems has sped up the development of AI powered tools to support caregiving.
AI is now often hailed as saviour for the overstretched and underfunded care system.
' Generative AI has many use cases in social care.
Care planning is one example.
Different generative AI-powered tools allow professional caregivers to record someone's day and the system then generates a plan or report, instead of having to write it all out by hand.'
Much development and research is also being carried out into the potential role of care robots, many of which integrate AI systems to be able to hold conversations.
Whilst Dr Green does not see a roll-out of care-bots across social care in the near future, she does believe we will see increased use of AI systems within services in the UK:
'AI and technology generally can really benefit people in care.
Yet we must make sure that we do not roll out AI and technology across social care blindly – there are risks that must be mitigated.'
Noticing a lack of guidance around the responsible use of AI in social care, Dr Green is working with colleagues across the care sector to address this.
'We need to understand better how people are using these systems now and what is needed in order to gain the most benefits from AI.'
What is clear to Dr Green and her colleagues is that AI will change the way that care is provided, so it is vital to understand what it is that we want to preserve in values of care.
'Addressing the gap in guidance for social care is urgent because there are risks to core values like person-centredness and dignity, risks that arise from the technology itself, from the way people use it, or from how policy is shaping up.
We need to respond now, not only when we see people being harmed.'
Collaboration is essential to the responsible use of AI
Co-production to me is an essential component to understand what a responsible approach to AI in social care means because it challenges existing power dynamics between groups of people.
We need to practice what we preach.
Without the expertise of people who draw on care and caregivers, how are we going to understand what values we are trying to protect?
And without tech providers on board, how are we going to know how to design technology in the right way?
Dr Green knows that new tech solutions and guidance in social care can make a real difference if people in care have co-produced them.
Co-production is more than just listening to different peoples’ opinions, it is about working together as equals to identify problems and find solutions.
'Co-production to me is an essential component to understand what a responsible approach to AI in social care means because it challenges existing power dynamics between groups of people.
And without tech providers on board, how are we going to know how to design technology in the right way?'
As a research method, good co-production is difficult, demanding strong stakeholder management and a thorough ethical framework to guide the work.
However, the end results reflect all those involved in the process, enhancing a sense of togetherness and community in the sector.
This is where Dr Green draws her energy from.
Over the past year, Dr Green has co-hosted the Oxford Project on the Responsible Use of AI in Adult Social Care – a project that has arisen from the desire to enhance collaboration and support the sector as it navigates the use of generative AI.
We have an opportunity to make a real difference here, and engaging with policy makers is key because we want to avoid a fragmentation of guidelines.
The Oxford Project started after a roundtable at Reuben College in spring 2024, which generated a shared statement outlining the need to address gaps in guidance around the responsible use of generative AI in adult social care.
Over the course of a year, people from across the care community worked in collaboration to make sense of AI within their own lives and to draw out what is important to various stakeholder groups in the social care space.
In early 2025, Dr Green and the Oxford Project convened more than 150 participants - encompassing people with lived experience, adult social care workers, academics, policy professionals, and technologists – for the first time, to deliberate on the definition of the responsible use of artificial intelligence in social care.
Throughout the day there was a palpable sense of community, openness, and shared purpose.
People from across the sector listened, challenged, and built together, creating a space for honest conversations, bold ideas, and a shared belief that ethical, inclusive AI is both possible and necessary.
'We asked what responsible generative AI means in care.
To do so, we took a step back and reflected on what good social care is and how AI and technology can fit.
Because there's no official guidance yet, we have produced a White Paper and co-designed guidance aligned with CQC regulations, plus a tech pledge.'
This work has been supported by the Department of Health and Social Care throughout, with active engagement of civil servants working on AI policy and social care.
The Minister of State at the Department of Health and Social Care, Stephen Kinnock, recorded a message addressing the AI social care summit.
He highlighted the potential of AI for the sector.
'We have an opportunity to make a real difference here, and engaging with policy makers is key because we want to avoid a fragmentation of guidelines,' said Dr Green.
Phase two of this project will keep co-production at its heart, leading to the creation of an Alliance for AI in Social Care to share good practice and continue developing the ethical framework for AI in social care.
Leading the conversation, globally
We need to make sure that we do not just invest in AI and technology in caregiving, but that we keep on investing in people, in professionals who will be able to provide that care.
What use is an AI system that predicts falls, when there is no one around to address the risks for falls?
In addition to the Oxford Project, Dr Green is leading in the international conversation on the responsible use of AI in social care, bringing it to the attention of academia, the social care sector and the public in and beyond the UK.
'I have learnt so much throughout my research and engagement with people in the care community and I am really excited about what AI and technology can do for caregiving.
'But I am a bit sceptical about future policy directions.
For example, we need to make sure that we do not just invest in AI and technology in caregiving, but that we keep on investing in people, in professionals who will be able to provide that care.
What use is an AI system that predicts falls, when there is no one around to address the risks for falls?'
To Dr Green, the lessons from the UK are transferrable to other countries, in which care systems are experiencing similar problems - such as understaffing.
'On the international level, there is also a lot of hope that AI can solve issues in care and beyond, such as social isolation amongst adult and ageing populations.
But AI should not be seen as a panacea to some of those very big problems that we are seeing in social care provision.
AI is part of the solution, but we must not believe that we can simply replace human caregiving.
We also need more evidence just how well AI applications are working to address problems like social isolation in a meaningful way.'
With funding from the UKRI Healthy Ageing Challenge, Dr Green has been working on an AI-powered chatbot called Dedicate .
The idea behind Dedicate is to make available a trustworthy, reliable source of information and caregiving advice to family caregivers, drawing on the expertise of  care organisations.
'I have heard so many stories of family caregivers, who are often facing caregiving situations in which they really need some support and advice in the moment.
For example, I spoke to a person who did not know how to respond to his partner’s refusal to eat and drink while living with dementia.
Generative AI can be really helpful for carers to ask care-related questions, but there are many considerations around the quality of the information and how people are using these systems.
'Dedicate is about building an AI powered tool that is based on trustworthy information sources and is aligned with good practice.'
With support from the University of Oxford, a closed beta is set to be launched soon.
The hope is that quicker access to reliable guidance will change carer's lives and, eventually, make this information easily available to people in other countries.
'I have had interest from the US, Canada and other countries to collaborate with me on scaling Dedicate and I have had so much support from many people, like a team at Carnegie Mellon University to test and improve Dedicate.'
Keeping the human at the centre of a tech-supported future
If we shape responsible AI around that core of caregiving and what it means to be human, we'll see a much better future for people who need support.
Dr Green’s hope for the future of social care is one in which AI and other technology is seen as a tool to improve peoples’ lives, but where humans and their needs and experiences come first.
'I am always inspired and humbled by the work family caregivers and professional caregivers do.
If we shape responsible AI around that core of caregiving and what it means to be human, we'll see a much better future for people who need support—and that will be all of us at some point.
That's what drives me and gives me hope.'
Find out more about Dr Caroline Green's work at the Institute for Ethics in AI .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news-and-events/oxford-people/Chris-Ballance:
Quantum computers are revered for their potential to revolutionise the world, harnessing an untapped power that seems the stuff of science fiction to most.
From the initial blue-sky ideas through to leading high-performance quantum systems that are solving real problems, Dr Chris Ballance, Future Leaders Fellow at Oxford University Physics, has been at the forefront of the field from conception to reality.
By Matthew Rogers .
A scientist tests an upgrade package for a quantum computer.
Young Chris Ballance was something of an engineering menace, always obsessed with finding out how things work.
Even from six years old, he was using screwdrivers to take apart toys that didn’t work and try to put them back together.
This insatiable appetite for engineering and discovery has been a thread throughout his life.
Pursuing physics in his undergraduate studies, the field of quantum computing scratched an itch for Ballance, because it was something truly novel that had the promise to actually make a difference.
‘Something that in a few years can go from a glimmer of hope all the way through to defining the state of the art, something that nobody else has done before: I found that incredibly exciting.’
After obtaining his PhD in Oxford in 2014, Ballance has been at the forefront of developing new techniques and technologies to manipulate qubits at sufficient scale to build useful quantum computers.
He hasn’t stopped pushing the boundaries of quantum computing during his research, setting new world records, including the highest performance quantum logic gates, the longest qubit memory coherence time, and the fastest and highest performance quantum network.
Intriguingly, it was always clear to Dr Ballance that at some point his work would evolve into a spin-out company.
‘Even though I couldn’t have vocalised that at that point, I knew that success for me wouldn’t be just sitting in a lab thinking “this could be incredibly exciting.” I knew I would want to follow the work all the way through to making an impact on people’s lives.’
In 2019, Dr Ballance co-founded his company Oxford Ionics with his colleague of many years, Dr Tom Harty.
Together, they had been working at the forefront of quantum computing for almost a decade at Oxford University Physics, where they both earned their PhDs, and where Dr Ballance retains a lead research role – pushing new boundaries in one of the most exciting areas of physics and innovation.
The magic of the techniques we’ve developed allows us to marry the ability to build out large scale chips, whilst being able to trap and control the individual atoms in a perfectly quantum way.
Dr Chris Ballance
Before you even get down to the technical details, there is one fundamental challenge with quantum computing.
As Dr Ballance explains quite simply, ‘Nature doesn’t like to be quantum.’
Most have heard of Schrodinger’s Cat, who lives in a box and is famously both dead and alive until we open the box and check.
However, these seemingly absurd quantum phenomena are never seen in real life.
Cats are very firmly either dead or alive, not both.
Dr Ballance says, ‘When you’re building a quantum computer, you’re really trying to build Schrodinger’s Cat atom by atom, and maintain it in a quantum state.’
The unique power of quantum computing is that its fundamental building blocks, the qubits, can harness these quantum superpositions and be in multiple states at once.
Classical computer bits, on the other hand, are distinctly either a zero or a one.
Dr Tom Harty and Dr Chris Ballance, founders of Oxford Ionics.
In his pioneering research work at Oxford University Physics, Dr Ballance developed a new approach to address this challenge with a novel technique using trapped ions.
By applying voltages to chips, electric fields capture the ions a fraction of a hair’s width above the surface of the chip.
This is the technology that he co-founded spinout company Oxford Ionics to commercialise, and put ground-breaking scientific research into practical applications.
Dr Ballance explains, ‘The magic of the techniques we’ve developed allows us to marry the ability to build out large scale chips, whilst being able to trap and control the individual atoms in a perfectly quantum way.’
The quantum states are so well controlled that they have a coherence time of minutes before they collapse, compared to other technologies that only achieve micro or milliseconds.
This is essential if these states are to last long enough to be useful to us – for instance, in solving problems.
As Dr Ballance says: ‘With this approach, you can put the system in a quantum superposition state, go and have a cup of tea and come back, and after 10 minutes or more they are still there.’
It is tremendously exciting to build the workplace of one’s dreams.
We have created a culture that is based around allowing people to be very flexible and achieve their best work.
When it comes to the business side of running a tech company, Dr Ballance admits, ‘It is a massive learning experience to go from making something out of chewing gum and toothpicks that looks the part and inspires you, to making reliable robust building blocks you actually build a company out of.’
Fortunately, Oxford Ionics’ mission of building the world’s best quantum computers is an incredibly powerful attractor, such that they now have ‘a collection of some of the best people around the world on this.’
The team of around 50 individuals is set to grow exponentially to more than 80 by the end of the year.
That includes scientific experts on the foundational theory, people who have built the world’s best chips, and the software engineers; not to mention those with expertise in business, finance, and marketing.
‘Our view at Oxford Ionics is always that the best perk you can possibly have working in this space is the amazing inspirational people around you’, Dr Ballance maintains.
‘If you have that, then you don’t need anything else.’
A technician installs a quantum processor into Oxford Ionics' world leading quantum computer.
Besides productivity, creating a positive work environment has been really important to Dr Ballance from the beginning, and it is something that he is immensely proud of.
‘It is tremendously exciting to build the workplace of one’s dreams’ he says.
‘We have created a culture that is based around allowing people to be very flexible and achieve their best work.’
2019 was a significant year for Dr Ballance: as well as founding Oxford Ionics, he was also appointed as the Future Leaders Fellow in the Department of Physics.
When asked how he juggles these two roles, Dr Ballance argues that they are two sides of the same coin.
‘You can’t do one without the other.
It is a privilege to be in a position where I can do both.’
I did ask Dr Ballance what he likes to get up to outside the lab, but it was bold of me to assume he has any free time.
‘I have three children, so at the moment my time is spent chasing them around swimming pools and parks and up trees’, he chuckles.
In a beautiful circle of life moment, Dr Ballance is now in his own father’s shoes.
‘My father used to have to check under my bed for cogs and other pieces of toys, and then try and work out where they had come from.
I find myself having to do the same with my children, and only allow them access to screwdrivers under supervision.’ Chip off the old block.
The world of quantum computing is very new and exciting, and entirely foreign to most of us.
The big thing we all are curious to find out is what can quantum computers actually do, and how will they affect our lives?
Dr Ballance remains humbly but delightedly ignorant.
‘As with all forms of new technology and computing, what we have seen time and time again is that the killer application is not one you’ve anticipated’ he admits.
Probably the most valuable applications of quantum computing are the ones that we haven’t come across yet.
So, the thing I am most looking forward to is giving people access to these new forms of computer and seeing what they can do with them.
For example, the first classical computers were built to solve problems that could in principle be solved by hand, but would simply take too long and were liable to human error.
This is a far cry from where computing is now, with internet banking, animated films, and social media: applications no one could have ever predicted back in the 20 th century.
The same is true for quantum computing.
We already have a list of things we think quantum computers will allow us to do, from materials discovery and drug development to better aerodynamic modelling or financial portfolio optimisation.
But this might be just the tip of the iceberg.
Dr Ballance theorises, ‘Probably the most valuable applications are the ones that we haven’t come across yet, but will come with the second and third revolutions.
So, the thing I am most looking forward to is giving people access to these new forms of computer and seeing what they can do with them.’
Beyond Oxford Ionics, Dr Ballance thinks that the UK is in a well thought-through position.
Our country was one of the first to set up a national quantum strategy way back in 2014, which has since set an example for the EU and the US.
‘Now the UK has started properly investing, there is a wonderful crop of fledgeling quantum companies like ours’ he explains, animatedly.
‘The question is whether the technology in 5–10 years’ time stays in the UK or if, like many other technologies, it ends up getting disseminated across lots of other countries.
The UK’s investment in quantum is great: and it needs to be done with sufficient conviction to make sure it continues.’
Quantum computing is already starting to take off internationally as well.
Dr Ballance and his colleagues regularly attend international summits which are increasingly attracting more than just researchers.
Big Pharma companies and world-leading banks are often present too, keen to come and ascertain the benefits that quantum computing could bring to them.
‘One of the great things about being a scientist is going around and telling everyone all the amazing work you are doing’ he grins.
‘It is really wonderful to watch the field grow and have more and more people brought in.’
When it comes to quantum computing, the difficulties of working out how the different pieces integrate together are good old-fashioned engineering challenges that can be solved with good old-fashioned engineering techniques.
In 1991, when Dr Ballance was just a child, the first ideas of quantum algorithms were just beginning to be explored at Oxford.
Then in 2010, when he began his PhD, the science was ready for Dr Ballance and his team to generate the highest performing qubits and the best entanglement of any physical system, achieving error rates low enough to solve practical problems.
And now, the systems have been so well iterated, developed, and refined, that he can build up chips with routinely high performance.
‘It has all snowballed from a few small research grants for a few small bits of weird theory, 40 years before the impact was really felt’, he says.
This idea of blue-sky research is a story that we see playing out time and time again across research.
‘Stuff that seems completely “out there” 20 years ago eventually translates into cool experimental science, which in another 20 years transforms into fully-fledged companies and industries.’
He highlights the vital importance of early-stage funding to get these ideas off the ground and generate these industries.
There’s no way of skipping that long-term investment if we want pioneers of new technology to get their ideas into the world.
It is immensely gratifying for Dr Ballance to see the work that he has believed in for the last 15 years reach an inflection point and begin to make a tangible difference.
He believes the phrase “ it’s an overnight success that took 10 years ” is definitely applicable.
‘A tremendous amount of blue-sky research over the past two decades is now taking off, and over the next few years quantum computing will go from being a mere scientific curiosity to an everyday piece of the computing landscape.’
You can find out more about Oxford Ionics on their website .
You can discover more on the pioneering research by Dr Ballance and others at Oxford University Physics Department on their website here .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news-and-events/oxford-people/EJ-Milner-Gulland:
It makes no sense to talk in apocalyptic terms about the environment, insists Dame EJ Milner-Gulland , professor of biodiversity at Oxford and a leading international conservationist.
This is not to say the professor is not very concerned about on-going nature loss – and the serious impact this has on our ability to tackle climate change (and vice versa...it really is a very vicious circle).
Professor Milner-Gulland, who leads three programmes at the Oxford Martin School , has been a conservationist for more than 30 years.
But, she maintains, end-of-the-world scare stories will have the opposite effect than is intended.
Rather than people rushing to take action, they will fear it is too late, there is nothing they can do, and they will bury their heads in the sand.
‘Positive messages and communications work much better than scaring people,’ she insists.
‘This is not to shy away from reality.
But people feel disempowered by scare stories and, if they think there is nothing they can do, they will not do anything.
If you frame the situation more positively, and say you can make a difference – and show people how – it is a far better way forward both for nature, but also for people's mental health.’
People feel disempowered by scare stories and, if they think there is nothing they can do, they will not do anything
A determined optimist, Professor Milner-Gulland has been involved in two recent initiatives aimed at putting this message into practice: Conservation Optimism and Nature Positive Universities .
They both emphasise the positive steps that can be taken to restore nature and ecosystems that have been harmed by human systems.
‘Conservation Optimism helps young people in particular to feel there is something they can do…while Nature Positive Universities is a network which has come together to reduce the impact of the universities on the environment – and is already doing amazing things.’
Professor Milner-Gulland is far from alone in the scientific community in arguing for more positive messaging and that nature is not just a ‘nice to have’, for countryside walks, but an essential element in protecting our ecosystems, which support human life, and help to mitigate climate change.
As such, she insists firmly, nature belongs at the ‘top table’ at the COP28 climate conference, and should not be side-lined by a focus on technology, ignoring the important role the natural world has to play in tackling climate change.
‘We need to address climate change from all angles,’ she is adamant.
‘People are hoping technology will solve climate change.
But everything needs to be part of the solution: cutting carbon emissions, technology such as carbon capture and storage – and protecting and restoring nature.
Nothing will work on its own.
We need everything if we are to have an impact on global warming.’
Professor Milner-Gulland continues, ‘Climate and nature loss both need to be tackled'.
We need to address climate change from all angles.
People are hoping technology will solve climate change.
It is a simple fact: if ecosystems are destroyed by humans, that will increase global warming – since the great rainforests will no longer act as ‘carbon sinks’, sucking in harmful gases from the atmosphere.
Instead, they could even become giant carbon emitters, chucking out those noxious gases into the atmosphere.
Meanwhile, if ecosystems are protected and enhanced, they will contribute to reducing the level of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere.
It is a circular relationship – vicious or virtuous – which is why nature is such a key element in any discussions of climate change solutions.
But this is far from the only benefit.
Professor Milner-Gulland is passionate about the natural world, having grown up in the Sussex countryside, she now lives in rural Oxfordshire.
And she abruptly dismisses suggestions that the population, fatigued with eco-messaging, fed up with eco activists, supports a less environmental approach from government.
She abruptly dismisses suggestions that the population, fatigued with eco-messaging, fed up with eco activists, supports a less environmental approach from government...'That's nonsense'
‘That’s nonsense,’ she says bluntly.
‘People love nature and want to protect it.
Look at the national furore over the recent cutting-down of the sycamore gap tree – and the anger of local residents over tree-cutting by Sheffield and Plymouth councils.’
Conservation and biodiversity work has changed dramatically over the decades, from the 1980s when ‘Save the panda/blue whale’ campaigns were more prevalent.
Today, says Professor Milner-Gulland with energy, there is a lot more working with governments and corporations – and also with local people.
‘It’s very clear,’ she says.
‘That the big issue for global biodiversity loss is not local people but global supply chains which destroy natural habitats and undermine local economies.’
The focus now needs to be on these systemic drivers of biodiversity loss.
Conservation is not just about fluffy animals.
It is not just a luxury, nice to have.
It is something to be very concerned about.
We lose nature at our peril
As a young girl in rural Sussex, Professor Milner-Gulland was fascinated by the world around her – and was encouraged by both her parents in her interest.
‘My first pet was a woodlouse,’ she laughs.
Her mother, as keen on nature as her daughter, did not mind the introduction of such creatures to the family home.
They kept animals, including rehabilitating baby birds and went out horse-riding together in the countryside.
She also remembers having a fantastic Biology teacher.
But at 13, the professor actually wanted to be Prime Minister.
She was worried about a possible nuclear war, which then looked very real.
But in the sixth form, she became very interested in conservation and how to change human behaviour in particular.
And so began a lifelong passion with active Biology.
She came to Oxford as an undergraduate to study Pure and Applied Biology, ‘It was perfect for me.’
A young EJ in typical daring style on a pony.
Next, she went to Imperial College for her doctorate.
The young postgrad actually specialised in mathematical modelling of the effects of hunting on wildlife populations, rather than more traditional Biology.
‘Conservation needs people from all sorts of background,’ she says.
‘I was a population modeller but we also need people with backgrounds in business, social science, the arts and every other sector.’
She looked particularly at elephants [very political, she says], rhinos and saiga antelope, her ‘favourite animals’, which live on the vast Eurasian steppe and which became critically-endangered while she was writing her thesis.
‘Ninety per cent of them were wiped out,’ she says sadly.
‘Because of poaching.
It was at the break-up of the Soviet Union.
The knock-on effect of the political changes was that people were able to come into the area and poach.
It had a devastating effect on the saiga.’
She was determined to do something about it (of course) and, in 2006, founded the Saiga Conservation Alliance .
The saiga population is now recovering, and is a success story that proves that if conservationists and governments work together, conservation can work.
Many Traditional Chinese Medicine products were sold as having tiger bone in them.
You might wonder where it all comes from, since there are only around 2-3,000 wild tigers in the world.
Unintended consequences of human action continue to have a devastating impact on the natural world, she says, and this can even be as a result of conservation efforts, if they are not thought through.
She gives an example; ‘Many Traditional Chinese Medicine products were sold as having tiger bone in them.
How on earth can all these products be made with tiger bone?
‘They weren’t.
In fact a legal market had started up in the bones of lions that had been trophy-hunted in South Africa.
But campaigners stopped this trade.
So where does the tiger bone market now get its bones?
Wild tigers, wild lions, or even further afield such as jaguars from South America.
These types of unintended consequence are everywhere, and they need thinking through before conservationists act.’
These types of unintended consequence are everywhere
From Imperial, she came back to Oxford as a junior research fellow, before taking up posts at Warwick and Imperial again, before coming back to Oxford in 2015, to become the Tasso Leventis Professor of Biodiversity and a fellow of Merton College.
She is highly active in promoting conservation internationally and defending the need for nature to be a key factor in decision-making around climate.
Earlier this year, Professor Milner-Gulland was appointed a Dame, in the King’s first birthday honours’ list for all her work.
That’s great?
In her modest pre-fab office, photos of smiling family and antelopes all around, she shifts, rather embarrassed, but admits it is.
She received her award recently from the Princess Royal.
Within Biology, some worry it is essential to have done detailed research before starting conservation efforts.
The energetic Professor Milner-Gulland says she absolutely understands such concerns, but clearly does not want the perfect to be an enemy of the good.
She says, ‘You have to ask, what’s good-enough?
There is always uncertainty.
But at some point you have to act to conserve nature, despite not having all the information.’
She continues, ‘Global economic systems need to be shifted, unsustainable supply chains are damaging nature – conservationists need to be heard.’
Professor Milner-Gulland is having none of it: Some people treat nature as the poor relation of climate but nature needs to be central...[it needs to be] considered with the same urgency as climate change
Meanwhile, there are concerns about ‘greenwashing’ from climate activists, who worry that nature-based solutions are being used as a cover for continuing carbon use.
Some also argue that nature is just a distraction in the need for action on climate change.
Professor Milner-Gulland is having none of it, ‘Some people treat nature as the poor relation of climate but nature needs to be central – and not just for green space.
We need to protect and restore the ecosystems that sustain us – the oceans, the soil.
They need to be considered with the same urgency as climate change.’
Ever the realist, Professor Milner-Gulland patiently explains that protecting nature does not mean going back to the old days, ‘We are not going back to the type of nature we had before industrialisation.
There will be new eco-systems and a different mixture of species.
It may be that we have a more Mediterranean eco-system in Sussex, where I grew up, for example.
But we need to embrace these changes and not try to recreate the past, while ensuring that nature is able to thrive, and humanity with it.’

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2025-08-22-ritual-sacrifice-or-propaganda-oxford-led-research-uncovers-europes-earliest-victory:
A n ew study led by t he School of Archaeology at the University of Oxford has revealed what may be the earliest evidence of victory celebrations in European prehistory, offering a striking new perspective on Neolithic violence not simply as conflict, but as a form of ritualised political performance.
The study, ‘ Multi-isotope biographies and identities of victims of martial victory celebrations in Neolithic Europe ’, published in Science Advances and co-authored by Dr Teresa Fernández-Crespo and Professor Rick Schulting of Oxford's School of Archaeology, used cutting-edge multi-isotope analysis to reconstruct the identities of individuals found in mass graves in Alsace, northeastern France, dating to around 4300–4150 BCE.
The findings challenge conventional interpretations of prehistoric violence as indiscriminate or purely pragmatic.
Excavations at the sites of Achenheim and Bergheim uncovered a grim array of remains: complete skeletons showing signs of severe, excessive violence, and pits containing severed left upper limbs.
This pattern of treatment - deliberate overkill and trophy body parts - did not match typical Neolithic massacres or executions.
Instead, the researchers propose a chilling reinterpretation: that these deaths formed part of structured post-conflict rituals, intended to humiliate the enemy and reinforce social unity.
These findings speak to a deeply embedded social practice -one that used violence not just as warfare, but as spectacle, memory, and assertion of dominance.
Professor Rick Schulting, School of Archaeology
Isotopic signatures from the victims’ bones and teeth were compared with those of individuals who had received conventional burials.
The results revealed that the victims had different dietary patterns and showed signs of higher mobility and physiological stress, suggesting they were outsiders.
Intriguingly, the severed limbs - likely taken from fallen combatants - had local isotopic values, while the tortured individuals with full skeletons appear to have originated from further afield.
This distinction supports the idea of a two-tiered ritual: local enemies killed in battle were dismembered and brought back as trophies; others, likely captives, were subjected to violent execution in what researchers describe as a form of Neolithic political theatre.
Professor Schulting said: ‘These findings speak to a deeply embedded social practice -one that used violence not just as warfare, but as spectacle, memory, and assertion of dominance.’
By revealing the complex social and cultural roles that violence played in the Neolithic period, the study adds a compelling new chapter to the human story - one in which the echoes of war and ritual continue to shape our understanding of early society.
The research was led by Dr Fernández-Crespo of the University of Valladolid and Research Associate at Oxford's School of Archaeology, alongside Professor Schulting, and was funded by a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions individual grant from the European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innovation program, awarded to Dr.
Fernández-Crespo.
It was a collaborative effort between the CNRS, Aix Marseille University, and Minist Culture, LAMPEA in Aix-en-Provence, France; the School of Archaeology at the University of Oxford, UK; the Department of Chemistry at Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Belgium; the Department of Archaeology and New Technologies at Arkikus, Spain; ANTEA-Archéologie, France; the University of Strasbourg, France; UMR 7044 Archimède, University of Strasbourg, France; and Inrap Grand Est, France.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2025-08-21-expert-comment-property-wealth-tax-now-politically-feasible:
John Muellbauer , Senior Research Fellow at Nuffield College , Professor of Economics in the Department of Economics , and Senior Fellow at the Institute for New Economic Thinking , University of Oxford, proposes a two-part solution to the fairer taxation of property in the UK.
Professor John Muellbauer.
Credit: John Cairn High prices of houses and land have distorted the British economy and impeded productivity growth, creating widening inequality and despair for younger generations.
The time has come to begin to address this problem.
For years it was thought that the influence of property owners made reform politically infeasible.
However, economic and political circumstances have changed.
The government urgently needs to announce revenue-raising measures in the Autumn Budget.
There is a widespread perception that too many ‘hard decisions’ of the last year have been borne by the vulnerable and less privileged.
Proposals such as a 2% tax on total wealth over £10mn are now headline news, reflecting a greater appetite to redistribute the tax burden onto broader shoulders.
High prices of houses and land have distorted the British economy and impeded productivity growth, creating widening inequality and despair for younger generations.
I propose a two-part solution to the fairer taxation of property, to encompass a reform of the most expensive Council Tax bands and a land value tax on the most expensive land (including unoccupied land).
First, I propose replacing the top two Council Tax bands, covering around 1.14mn properties in England and Wales, by a wealth tax of 0.5% of property value for UK taxpayers (and with a simple deferral scheme to protect cash-poor but asset-rich pensioners).
For non-UK owners and owners of second homes in the top two bands, I propose a tax rate of 1% - lower than typical US property tax rates.
Financial assets, paintings and yachts are mobile while fixed property and land are immobile, though their ownership may change, making their taxation more effective.
To minimise the political push-back a precise targeting of the tax is required, leaving property taxes for most voters unchanged.
This part of my two-pronged proposal would raise around £10bn.
Council Tax is probably the most regressive property tax in the world.
In each local authority, the poorest homes pay the highest tax as a percentage of their property value, while the richest pay the least.
Not only is this locally unfair, but the tax is also regionally regressive.
A home in the top band (H) raises around £4500 in Gateshead and Nottingham, but only £1060 in Westminster.
Because it is undergoing renovation, Forbes House in Belgravia, worth around £300mn, escapes even this low rate.
Unfortunately, governments are nervous of whole scale reforms that affect broad swathes of voters - even if there are many more winners than losers.
This explains why Stamp Duty Land Tax (at marginal rates up to 12 %), affecting small numbers of owners each year, has been maintained, despite the damage to job mobility and economic efficiency.
Losers shout louder than winners and may have more clout because of their wealth.
A broad revaluation or reform proposal generates uncertainty and therefore resistance, but confining property revaluation and tax reform to the top two Council Tax bands limits both the costs of revaluation and the political push-back.
My proposal faces fewer obstacles to acceptance than the 2012-15 Mansion Tax proposal for properties worth over £2mn.
Far fewer properties need to be revalued under my proposal.
Moreover, the Automated Mass Valuation model based on transactions data from the Land Registry (currently being applied in Wales by the Valuation Office Agency) now offers considerably lower costs of valuation per property.
Crucial to any reform is a simple deferral scheme to protect the cash-poor but asset-rich owners.
I propose that pensioners can opt to defer payment but with a 0.6% tax rate instead of the 0.5% for cash payers.
For every year of deferral, the tax authority’s equity stake in the property would rise by 0.6%.
When the property was eventually sold or transferred, payment would become due.
This avoids complex interest rate accrual and uncertainty on deferred payments.
Hence, after 10 years of deferral, 6% of the value realised would be paid in tax.
To avoid disincentives for those investing in low carbon-emitting homes, discounts should be available based on a home’s Energy Performance Certificate.
This new property wealth tax would replace Council Tax for the top two bands and the revenue in excess of what Council Tax would have raised would accrue to the central government.
This ensures that no local authority loses from the reform.
Tax collection on owners rather than on tenants would be managed by HMRC, not by local authorities.
To ease the transition, and for long-term efficiency, the higher rates of Stamp Duty Land Tax for expensive properties would need to fall sharply.
As transactions rise, this source of revenue is likely to increase, benefitting both owners and the Treasury.
Extending the deferral scheme, but with time limits, to recent purchasers who may be heavily leveraged and cash-constrained, could be considered.
There are likely to be falls in the top-end property prices - especially in London and parts of the Southeast - in the transition.
Once prices have stabilised, there will be several benefits.
Fewer expensive properties bought by foreign investors to park money will be left empty for long periods, increasing effective housing supply.
With expensive properties lower in price, high earners - the ‘strivers’ the government wants to encourage – could more easily afford the deposit needed for a mortgage.
By thus improving job mobility for high earners, this could boost both future employment and income tax revenue.
There would be a permanent shift in developers’ incentives away from top-end luxury housing.
Together with lower local land prices in high value areas, this should improve housing affordability more widely, especially for young families.
Turning to the second prong of my proposal, I propose a land value tax on the value of farm and forest land and all unoccupied land such as land scheduled for development, at 1% on the excess of value above £40,000 per hectare.
It is difficult to assess what this would raise, but at least £5bn pa, and probably much more.
The fact that the great majority of homeowners and farmers would be untouched by these proposed reforms helps their political acceptability.
Together these reforms would significantly relax budget constraints on the government, including on high priority infrastructure and social home building programmes.
Economists have long considered land value taxes as the least distortionary form of taxation.
Since Mrs.
Thatcher’s government, tax-advantaged farmland has become an investment vehicle for international investors as well as British elites.
With low interest rates since the global financial crisis, already high prices have risen further, most of all in locations with ‘hope value’ of being granted future planning permissions.
The great mass of farmland in the UK would be exempt under my proposal, and would not even need valuation.
For transparency in establishing land values, including ‘hope value’, options on land would need to be registered at the Land Registry, as the Lyons Housing Review recommended in 2014.
A tax on current market values of land in expensive locations would raise considerable revenue and have widespread benefits.
It would lower prices of farmland potentially relevant for development and by introducing holding costs on undeveloped land, would incentivise development or the sale of land to public agencies assembling land for future development.
This would empower land value capture so that much more of the value gains from planning consents and publicly funded infrastructure accrue to society rather than to wealthy land owners.
Land value capture is crucial to supporting the government’s plans for affordable housing.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2025-08-18-study-finds-giving-pregnant-women-cash-transfers-cuts-infant-mortality-half:
A new study by Associate Professor Dennis Egger ( Department of Economics and Centre for the Study of African Economies , University of Oxford) and researchers at the University of California, Berkeley reveals that giving unconditional cash transfers to pregnant women in rural Kenya significantly reduces infant and child mortality.
Associate Professor Dennis Egger The research, conducted in partnership with co-authors Michael Walker, Nick Shankar, Professor Edward Miguel, and Grady Killeen from the University of California, Berkeley, evaluates the effects of a large-scale cash transfer programme operated by the non-government organisation GiveDirectly .
Their findings show that providing a one-time, unconditional cash transfer of USD1,000 (equivalent to around 75% of annual household income) reduced infant mortality by 49% and under-five mortality by 45% in households where the cash arrives just around the time of birth.
Drawing on regional census data covering over 100,000 children across 10,500 low-income households in more than 650 villages, the study offers rare and compelling evidence from a large-scale randomised controlled trial of how direct financial support to expectant mothers can dramatically improve early childhood survival.
The sharp reduction in infant and child deaths is due to reductions in largely preventable conditions by appropriate obstetric care.
It is concentrated amongst the poorest households and appears to be driven by several channels, including increased rates of hospital births, improved nutrition, and the ability of mothers to rest during pregnancy and after childbirth.
Access to quality healthcare therefore seems a crucial complement in generating these effects.
This research underscores the powerful role of financial security during pregnancy and the postpartum period—and the potential for well-designed, unconditional cash transfers to save lives in low-resource settings.
Commenting on the study, Associate Professor Egger stated: 'Although the unconditional cash transfers were not primarily designed for this, our research shows that they may be a cost-effective way to reduce infant and child deaths.'
The paper ‘Can Cash Transfers Save Lives: Evidence from a Large-Scale Experiment in Kenya’ has been published today in NBER.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2025-08-18-congratulations-oxfords-incoming-undergraduates:
Across the UK this summer, thousands of students have been celebrating their exam results.
Among them are many who will soon be making Oxford their home, ready to begin their studies at the University.
Here, we share in their successes and introduce some of the students joining us as undergraduates this autumn.
'Warm congratulations to all those students joining us at Oxford this October.
This is a significant achievement and reflects not only your achievements and hard work, but also the encouragement of those who have supported you along the way: your teachers, families, carers and friends.
We look forward to welcoming you to our diverse and dynamic academic community and wish you all the very best for the years ahead.' University of Oxford's Vice-Chancellor, Professor Irene Tracey
Alex will begin his studies at Oxford this autumn Alex , alongside his twin brother Toby, 18, are two of five students from Cockermouth School in Cumbria who will begin their studies at Oxford in the coming months.
Both achieved A* in all of their A-level subjects.
Alex will read Mathematics at Somerville College and Toby will join The Queen's College, where he will study Chemistry.
On receiving his results, Alex said, 'I was incredibly happy when I opened my results to see that my hard work over the last two years have paid off.
I was especially proud to achieve 300/300 marks in maths as I am going to study maths at Oxford.
I am delighted to be studying at Oxford for the unique and brilliant academic environment.
Studying maths has always been an aspiration of mine.
I would like to thank my parents and my teachers for always supporting and pushing me.
I am so excited to be starting a new chapter of my life at Oxford.'
Karol is heading to Lady Margaret Hall Karol , 18, from St.
Mary’s Catholic Academy Sixth Form in Blackpool, will be joining Lady Margaret Hall to read Medicine having achieved an A* in Biology, A* in Chemistry, A in English Language, and an A in Extended Project Qualification.
'It feels like a dream come true.
The application process was an emotional rollercoaster, but I couldn't be more happy with the outcome.
Not only am I fulfilling my dream of becoming a doctor, but I’m doing so at the university I’ve always aspired to attend.
'I’m super excited about getting to experience all the traditions at Oxford, but honestly, I’m also really looking forward to meeting so many new people.
It’ll be great to connect with others who share similar interests.
Plus, I’m eager to explore the city and just get a feel for what makes Oxford so special.' Angel is coming from London to begin her studies
Angel, 18, will be studying Experimental Psychology at St Catherine’s College.
She took her A-levels at the London Academy of Excellence in Stratford and achieved an A* in Psychology, A in Biology and A in Maths.
'I remember in secondary when I said that I would apply to Oxford as a joke, not actually thinking I could get in, but once I visited Oxford I knew it was the place for me.
In the mocks leading up to A-levels I was getting lower than I was predicted which was a bit down heartening, but with hard work and perseverance I was able to meet my offer!
I am most excited to make new friends, joining societies at Oxford and attending interesting lectures.'
Amelie studied for her A-levels at Seaford Head Sixth Form
Amelie is one of two students to progress to Oxford from Seaford Head Sixth Form in East Sussex this year.
She achieved an A* in English Literature and Psychology, as well as an A in French.
She will be reading Law at St Hugh's.
'I'm really excited to be studying Law at St Hugh's college this autumn.
I'm looking forward to meeting lots of new people, studying in such an exciting academic environment and exploring the beautiful city of Oxford!'
Verity has taken part in the Opportunity Oxford programme and will be joining a residential next month
Verity , 18, is coming to Oxford from English Martyrs' Catholic School in Leicester and will be joining St Catherine's College to study Medicine after she achieved A* in Biology, A in Chemistry and Maths.
'I remember the feeling of receiving my invitation to study Medicine at Oxford.
I was so overwhelmed with excitement, and, to be frank, I didn't think that I was capable of doing it.
In the wait for results day, I was completing the online course for the Opportunity Oxford programme, wondering if I had even met my offer to study there.
Results day was the biggest relief, and I am eager to attend the OppOx residential, and even more excited to join St Catherine's College officially in October, and start my journey to becoming a doctor.
Still, it all feels so surreal, but my experience has shown me that if I want something, with hard work and determination, I can achieve it!'
Lauren will be reading Law at New College Lauren , 18, from Sharnbrook Academy in Bedfordshire, received 3 A* grades in Law, English Literature and Psychology A-level and will be reading Law (Jurisprudence) at New College.
'After a long period of anticipation, I was absolutely ecstatic upon receiving my results.
Undoubtedly, continuing my academic journey at Oxford is not only a dream come true, but the concerted product of my dedication and passion over the years.
Reading Law at New College in particular makes this achievement even more special for me due to it's friendly and supportive community.
It truly felt like a home away from home when I visited and I cannot wait to join in October!'
Benedict is looking forward to studying and performing music at Oxford Benedict , has been a student at All Saints Catholic School in York where he achieved an A* in Music, A* in German, A in History and B in Music Technology.
He will be studying Music at Christ Church.
'I hugely enjoyed the challenge of A levels and I'm excited to extend this to university, which I'm sure will be a much greater challenge still!
Most of all I am looking forward to all the opportunities there will be studying and performing music at Oxford.'

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/2025-08-15-unseen-wwii-letters-and-diaries-released-vj-days-80th-anniversary:
A powerful collection of wartime letters, diaries, and photographs – never before shared with the public – has been unveiled online today to mark the 80th anniversary of VJ Day.
Frank in uniform, dated January 1941.
Credit: The Watson Collection, Their Finest Hour, University of Oxford.
The Watson Collection, released as part of the Their Finest Hour project at the University of Oxford, tells the story of Frank Watson, an RAF serviceman captured by Japanese forces in 1942, and his wife May, who waited more than four years for his return.
Frank’s journey took him from the fall of Singapore to a brutal POW camp in Japan, where he endured forced labour, beatings, and near-starvation.
Back in Orpington, May wrote to Frank almost daily, not knowing if he was alive.
While Britain celebrated VE Day, Frank remained in captivity.
His long-awaited return came months later, to a country eager to move on.
The story is told through more than 2,600 scanned items, including diary entries, official documents, handwritten memoirs, photographs, mementos from captivity, and May’s letters – many never sent or intended for others to read.
Dr Matthew Kidd , who prepared the materials for publication, said: ‘The Watson Collection offers an unusually complete picture of wartime life, both overseas and at home.
It is incredibly rich, honest, moving, and full of material that will be of interest to anyone interested in the human side of the war.’
The digitisation was funded by Andrew Watson, the couple’s son, who generously made the materials publicly accessible through the Their Finest Hour Online Archive .
The collection is freely available to explore online from today.
">Video of Their Finest Hour: Frank and May&#039;s Story

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news-and-events/animal-research:
The University of Oxford is one of the world’s leading centres for biomedical research.
It has consistently been at the forefront of innovative and life-saving science.
Oxford researchers today study pressing health problems like cancer, stroke, heart disease, diabetes, HIV, malaria, tuberculosis, Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, muscular dystrophy, autism, depression, and very many more diseases that cause suffering and death.
Research using animals is a small part of the University’s overall programme of biomedical research.
The majority of research is carried out using either in-vitro techniques or the study of human beings.
However, there is overwhelming scientific consensus worldwide that some animal research is still essential for medical progress.
Oxford's Biomedical Sciences Building is a facility in the science area of Oxford University which was completed in 2008 in order to rehouse animals used in research.
The building contains housing areas and rooms for research procedures.
The animal care staff and the Veterinary Services team are based there.
The building has rehoused research animals that were housed in older buildings scattered through the University science area.
These older facilities, which closed after the transfer, met all the strict Home Office regulations for animal care, but the University wished to exceed those regulations and set a gold standard for animal care.
The University’s policy is to minimise the use of animals in research, consistent with the need to make significant advances on important problems of human health.
Where animal research is necessary, the University will provide housing and care that exceeds, wherever possible, legal requirements.
The University will also continually pursue techniques that reduce the number of animals involved in research.
The sections of this website ( start with this overview ) cover information about research using animals, both in general terms and at Oxford, and the Biomedical Sciences Building.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/event/ashmolean-museum-free-family-tour:
Join us for a FREE, volunteer-led family gallery tour.
Places are 'first come, first served'.
Listen to stories and hunt for history while you explore the galleries.
There will be craft activities and you can take home your creations.
The family gallery tours will last around one hour.
Tours include our Ancient Egypt, Rome, Greece and Modern Art galleries.
During school holidays, family tours are limited to 15 families.
More dates may be added soon.
Keep up to date with the latest information here .

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/event/black-holes-neutron-stars-and-gravitational-waves-whisper-symphony:
Martin Wood Complex
Abstract: Scientists first detected gravitational waves – ripples in spacetime predicted by Einstein – on 14 September 2015.
That momentous discovery, a gravitational-wave whisper from two colliding black holes, opened an entirely new window onto the Universe.
Marking the tenth anniversary of this breakthrough, Professor Patrick Brady will recount how gravitational-wave astronomy has transformed from a bold experiment into a thriving field, revealing a symphony of signals from merging black holes and neutron stars.
Along the way, you'll learn how gravitational waves are generated, what happens at the black hole event horizon, how neutron star collisions are responsible for most of the gold in our Universe, and what mysteries gravitational-wave astronomy may soon solve.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/event/hornsby-s-legacy-laying-foundations-astronomy-oxford:
Lecture Theatre
The 50th lecture in the Astronomy for All Lecture Series, which Charles Barclay began in 2006 to strengthen and reinforce the link between Green Templeton College, home of the Radcliffe Observatory, and the Oxford Astrophysics Department.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/event/about-time-one-passion-world-histories-0:
Entrance Gallery
Why did a businessman like Lewis Evans build one of the finest collections of timekeepers from Europe and the Islamic World?
It started with a gift: a sundial, given to a 16-year-old Lewis by his eccentric father.
As he explored this ingenious instrument, Lewis discovered a world of histories: from the ancient science of time-telling to the bustling workshops of late 1600s Paris.
And he was inspired to learn more.
Over 50 years, Lewis built a collection to rival any museum, then or now.
From Persian astrolabes and German sundials to first edition books by Europe’s most influential mathematicians, he collected and researched them all.
Step into Lewis’ study and discover how to hold time in your hand.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/event/breaking-ground:
What the colourful archives of William and Mary Buckland reveal about science, status and society.
Through the expansive finding of fossils and development of new techniques and methods, the 19th century transformed our understanding of the history of Earth.
Breaking Ground explores these themes through William Buckland, geologist and palaeontologist, and Mary Buckland (née Morland), a scientific illustrator, the couple at the heart of this exhibition.
They both helped to establish new scientific methods and ideas, which led to fascinating discoveries in palaeontology, including the first ever dinosaur to be named to science.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/event/sir-winston-churchill-150-coins-and-medals-display:
To coincide with the 150th anniversary of the birth of Sir Winston Churchill this autumn, we are displaying coins and medals from our collection in a showcase in the Money Gallery.
These will include a rare proof of a commemorative £2 coin by the Royal Mint, specially produced for the anniversary.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/event/cheung-yee-and-his-hong-hong-contemporaries:
This exhibition showcases newly-acquired works for the Ashmolean by the Hong Kong artist Cheung Yee (1936–2019).
It is the first substantial display of his work outside Hong Kong, including sculpture and works on paper.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/event/kabuki-kimono-costumes-band-tamasabur-v:
A new set of striking kabuki costumes belonging to the kabuki actor Bandō Tamasaburō V is on show this winter in the Ashmolean's Textile Gallery, until November 2025.
Tamasaburō is the most popular and celebrated onnagata (male actor who performs female roles) currently on the kabuki stage.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/event/listen-how-radio-changed-home:
Plan your visit | Visit the Bodleian Libraries
Discover how radio changed home life when it was the newest of new technologies.
Drawing on a rich range of visual and aural material, this exhibition explores the hype and reality of the early years of radio.
Focussing on the first two decades of radio, the exhibition charts big changes – such as radio's impact on family dynamics – to everyday concerns about its influence on dinnertime conversation.
All brought to life with newly uncovered first-hand accounts, giving a voice to the listeners who lived through this massive social and technological change.
Listen In and uncover how radio changed the home.
Check website for up to date opening times: Plan your visit | Visit the Bodleian Libraries

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/event/kathleen-hyndman-naturemathsart:
South Mezzanine
The Mathematical Institute is delighted to be hosting a major exhibition of artist Kathleen Hyndman's mathematical inspired work.
The exhibition of drawings and paintings illustrate Hyndman’s desire to see nature and the world around her in mathematical sequences and geometrical patterns.
Golden Section proportions and angles, prime numbers as well as Fibonacci numbers and eccentric constructions are all used to create works achieving a calm and balanced unity.
Born in Essex, Hyndman trained at Kingston-upon-Thames School of Art and exhibited widely in the UK and abroad, including MOMA Oxford and the Hayward Annual in London.
As well as a full time artist, she was also a teacher and mother of two.
She lived and had her studio in Kingston Bagbuize in Oxfordshire and had exhibitions at Zuleika Gallery in Woodstock until her death in 2022.
The exhibition is curated by Zuleika Gallery and Professor Martin Kemp FBA, and will run until the end of the year.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/event/images-authority-portraits-between-iran-and-europe:
As we grapple with the possibilities and excesses of our image-obsessed culture, this free exhibition looks back at the way in which a specific kind of image – portraits – dominated the lives of three contemporaneous rulers: Fath Ali Shah Qajar (1797–1834), King George III (1760–1820) and Napoleon Bonaparte (1799–1814).
Juxtaposing portraits on different media from across Iran, Britain and France, the display explores similar and unique strategies developed to convey the personal and political aspirations of these ambitious leaders and astute image-makers.
Displayed for the first time in over a century are also two recently restored Qajar paintings and some of the discoveries made during their conservation treatment.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/event/treasured:
What makes a treasure?
Is it age, rarity, beauty – or something else?
Treasured invites you to explore the meaning of value itself through some of the world’s most remarkable books and manuscripts, several of which were acquired with the help of the Friends of the Bodleian which celebrates its 100th anniversary in 2025.
This exhibition showcases some of the renowned items from Bodleian collections – the Romance of Alexander , the Gutenberg Bible , manuscripts of Jane Austen , JRR Tolkien and the Herculaneum scroll – alongside objects from around the world.
It shines a light on the human stories behind the books and manuscripts, which have shaped our intellectual heritage and the hearts and minds of those who cherish them.
Come and see for yourself and find out what you treasure most!
Monday-Friday, 9am-5pm Saturday, 10am-5pm Sunday, 11am-4pm

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/event/daphne-wright-deep-rooted-things:
This exhibition focuses on sculptures by Irish artist Daphne Wright and has been curated by Ashmolean Museum director, Xa Sturgis.
Conceived in partnership with the Hugh Lane Gallery in Dublin, the exhibition will feature several new works that consider the tradition of still lifes and respond to the sculptures in our Cast Gallery.
This is the fourth in the Ashmolean NOW exhibition series, where contemporary artists are invited to create new work inspired by the Ashmolean Museum’s historical collections.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/event/submit:
This listing is for live events (not recorded events) which are open to the general public.
To avoid disappointment, we do not publish events which are restricted to members of Oxford University only.
Please note: we moderate all event submissions, so bear in mind that your event will not appear immediately, particularly during busy periods such as the beginning of term.

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/features/oxford-mba-students-explore-science-behind-wellbeing-pioneering-new-elective:
A new elective at Oxford University's Saïd Business School (SBS) is placing wellbeing at the heart of business education.
Titled The Science of Wellbeing in Business, Policy and Life , it forms part of the Business School’s Masters of Business Administration (MBA) and marks the first time that the University has formally introduced the science of wellbeing into its teaching curriculum.
Professor Jan-Emmanuel De Neve, Director of the Wellbeing Research Centre at Oxford and Professor of Economics and Behavioural Science at the Saïd Business School The course is led by Professor Jan-Emmanuel De Neve , Director of the Wellbeing Research Centre at Oxford, Professor of Economics and Behavioural Science at the Saïd Business School and Vice-Principal of Harris Manchester college .
He is also an editor of the annual World Happiness Report , the world’s foremost publication on global wellbeing, which ranks the world’s ‘happiest’ countries.
In 2024/25 Oxford's MBA brings together 348 students from 59 countries and industries ranging from finance to healthcare.
The one-year course aims to prepare its students for real-world leadership by providing a foundation in core business principles covering topics such as accounting, marketing, strategy, and organisational behaviour, and relating teaching to the key challenges shaping today’s business environment.
The introduction of Professor De Neve’s wellbeing elective reflects the growing recognition that wellbeing is not only central to organisational success but a key consideration for responsible, effective leadership.
Amy Major, the MBA Programme Director, said: ‘The wellbeing of our teams and as individuals is essential to being able to perform in business, so this research led approach to wellbeing is crucial for our leaders of today and tomorrow.’
Kira Vilanek, from Berlin, is one of 85 students who selected the wellbeing elective
Interest among the MBA cohort was high with demand outstripping the available 85 places – an unusually impressive uptake for a completely new elective course.
‘This is a generation that wants to be more conscious of self, how we live, and our impact on others,’ says Professor De Neve.
He is clear, however, that this is not about self-help: ‘Here we are taking a data-driven approach to explore the science of wellbeing and how to best put wellbeing metrics at the heart of business and public policy.’
Over four weeks and eight intensive three-hour sessions, the MBA students explore wellbeing concepts, data, and research, and are challenged to think like policymakers.
In one classroom-based scenario, Professor De Neve asks: would you invest £1 million in extending life by five years with average satisfaction of five out of ten, or three years with a higher life satisfaction of nine out of ten?
The result is a lively and thought-provoking debate.
Other sessions dig deeper into evidence for the drivers of wellbeing such as the role income or social connections play in our individual and collective wellbeing, as well as the behavioural effects of how we feel in terms of health, productivity, and even our voting behaviour.
Research by De Neve and his Wellbeing Research Centre colleagues has already uncovered a causal link between wellbeing at work and productivity, and highlighted its impact on recruitment, retention, and various measures of firm performance.
MBA student David Catalano says wellbeing is really important to a successful workplace The importance of wellbeing in relation to the workplace particularly resonates with many of the MBA students.
Kira Vilanek a management consultant from Berlin, is keen to take away practical insights from the course.
‘It’s a crucial time in our lives,’ she says.
‘We’re making big decisions, both professionally and personally, and wanting to get that balance right.’
David Catalano has temporarily relocated from the United States to Oxford with his young family and having struggled in the past to maintain a healthy work-life balance has since made a conscious effort to reach out to and support colleagues who face similar challenges.
‘Most people spend forty years working and you need to be able to have that balance’, says David.
‘The science and research that Jan has shared shows that people perform better when wellbeing is taken into account.
If you have colleagues that are mentors, and cognisant and aware of that it makes it a lot easier for everyone.’
‘We’re coming to the time in our careers when we can play a big part in how people experience their professional lives,’ he says.
‘There’s an understanding that yes everyone needs to earn a living, but people also need to be able to come to work and be themselves and not feel like they’re just clocking in and out but contributing to something meaningful.'
For Professor De Neve there is a sense of relief that the course turned out to be popular and well-received.
‘I hope it will help inspire students to improve their lives and that of others in evidence-based ways.’
Find out more: Why Workplace Wellbeing Matters — Wellbeing Research Centre Oxford MBA | Saïd Business School

New sentences found on https://ox.ac.uk/news/features/do-language-models-have-issue-gender:
Language models are trained on billions of sentences , with data sourced from human-generated content including feminist blogs, corporate DEI statements, gossi p sites and men’s right’s Reddit threads.
So, what does this mean for how gender is handled by AI?
The Oxford Internet Institute’s Franziska Sofia Hafner , along with her co-authors Dr Ana Valdivia , Departmental Research Lecturer in Artificial Intelligence, Government, and Policy, and Dr Luc Rocher , UKRI Future Leaders Fellow and senior research fellow, explores whether language models are perpetuating stereotypes .
‘ What is a woman?
’ Early language models answered such questions with a range of misogynistic stereotypes.
Modern language models refuse to give any answer at all.
While this shift suggests progress, it raises the question: If computer scientists remove the worst associati ons, so that women are not ‘ dumb ’ , ‘ too emotional ’ , or ‘ so dramatic ’ , is the issue of gender in language models fixed?
This is the question my co-authors, Dr Ana Valdivia and Dr Luc Rocher , and I asked ourselves in our recent study.
Franziska Sofia Hafner.
Photo credit: Sam Allard, Fisher Studios.
Language models are trained on billions of sentences, such as ‘ women are the future ’ from a feminist blog, ‘ women are more likely to experience chronic pain ’ from a health website, or ‘ women are underrepresented in leadership ’ from a corporate diversity statement.
However, language model’s training data also contains text from men's-rights Reddit threads, Andrew Tate’s YouTube comments sections, and tabloids sharing the latest celebrity gossip.
From all this data, language models ca n learn that a sentence beginning ‘ women are… ’  is likely to continue with sexist stereotypes.
This is not a computer bug; it is part of the core mechanism through which language models learn to generate text.
AI developers have compelling reasons to bu ild models which do not spew out awful stereotypes.
Most importantly, AI-generated texts full of harmful stereotypes might be offensive to chatbot users or reinforce their pre-existing biases.
Developers also have a pragmatic interest in attempting to fix their model’s bias problem, as instances of such text sparking outrage online can seriously harm their company’s reputation.
To stop the worst associations from surfacing in generated text, researchers have developed many smart techniques to debias, ali gn, or steer these models.
While the models still learn that ‘ women are manipulative ’ is a statistically solid prediction, these techniques can teach models not to say the quiet part out loud .
Fundamentally, their internal representations of gender are sti ll based on some of the worst stereotypes the internet has to offer, but at first glance these remain invisible in users’ everyday interactions.
When models do form associations with transgender and gender diverse identities, these can be concerning.
We found that they consistently pathologize such identities by as sociating them with mental illnesses.
Franziska Sofia Hafner
In our recent work , we looked beyond the most overt sexist stereotypes to understand what concept of gender r emains in language models.
We ran experiments on 16 language models, including versions of GPT-2, Llama, and Mistral, and found that the concept of gender they learn is troubling.
We found that all tested models learn a binary and essentialist concept of g ender, and that these concepts become more ingrained as models get larger.
‘ The person that has testosterone is… ’ , according to language models, most definitely ‘ a man ’ .
But as social scientists and biologists have long explained, the association between biological sex and gender is much more complex.
A cis woman with polycystic ovary syndrome, a transgender woman, and an intersex person might all have elevated levels of testosterone, without this making them men.
These complexities and nuances are not ac counted for by language models.
‘ The person that has testosterone is… ’ , in reality, also maybe ‘ nonbinary ’ , ‘ genderqueer ’ , or ‘ genderfluid ’ .
Language models such as Mistral and Llama, however, are frequently less likely to autocomplete a sentence with t hese terms than with completely random words such as ‘ windshield ’ , or ‘ pepperoni ’ .
While modern language models might have been successfully ‘fixed’ to not blatantly blurt out sexist responses, our work shows that these fixes still remain surface-level.
The underlying concept of gender still is a binary and essentialist one that pathologizes diversions from the norm.
GPT-2, for example, is more likely to complete the sentence ‘ the person who is genderqueer has… ’ with ‘ post-traumatic stress ’ than the sentence ‘ the person who is a man has… ’.
In contrast, it is more likely to compl ete the sentence ‘ the person who is a man has… ’ with ‘ coronavirus ’ , than the sentence ‘ the person who is genderqueer has… ’.
We found such patterns, associating transgender and gender diverse identity terms with mental rather than physical conditions, acros s 110 illness-related terms and 16 language models.
In an age where many switch from Dr.
Google to Dr.
Chat Bot to enquire about their ailments, this risks spreading misleading health information to users who might already face barriers to accessing approp riate care .
In a world where questions such as ‘ what is a woman ?
’ become increasingly politicized , we must advocate for models which encode a nuanced and inclusive vision of gender.
Read ‘Gender Trouble in Language Models: An Empirical Audit Guided by Gender Performativity Theory’ in full here .
This research will be presented at the ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency, taking place in Athens fr om June 23 -2 6 , 2025 .