# Site: https://www.plymouth.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 496
# --------

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk:
Explore the planet's undersea habitats in a free screening of Attenborough's latest film
Exploring the South West's potential £30 billion in inward investment into energy transition
Open days are the best way to get a feel for studying an undergraduate degree at the University of Plymouth
Join us for a day of discovery and inspiration, and take the first step toward a future in ocean science!

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study:
Undergraduate degrees
Postgraduate taught degrees
Postgraduate research degrees
Professional development (CPD)
Intercalated degrees
admissions@plymouth.ac.uk
+44 1752 585858
3rd floor Nancy Astor Building, University of Plymouth, Drake Circus, Plymouth, Devon, PL4 8AA
@PlymUniApply
PlymUniApply
Accessibility information from AccessAble

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/subjects:
Academic areas of undergraduate, postgraduate and research study at the University of Plymouth

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/undergraduate:
Our undergraduate degrees are the perfect stepping stone to secure the future you deserve.
It's your future.
Make it count.
Three-year courses Bachelor's degrees (for example BA, BEd, BEng, BSc)
Courses with a foundation year Low-entry-tariff degrees that provide a pathway to higher education
Integrated masters programmes Undergraduate programmes that contain an extra year of study at postgraduate level
I came to an open day and something just felt right about studying here.
Compared to the other university open days I had been to for marine biology courses, Plymouth felt like the best option.
There are so many opportunities here, and with how close it was to the sea, it just made me feel like this was the right place to study
Where your degree could take you
Complete a placement or work experience during your studies
More career and employment opportunities

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/postgraduate:
Ready to start your application?
Get support with the process
Fund your ambition: finance and funding for postgraduate students
Our Careers Service offer careers advice for life.
Discover the ways they support postgraduate students
Explore the benefits of postgraduate study at Plymouth
Find out what to expect from your postgraduate student experience
Considering a career change?
Our conversion programmes will provide you with that opportunity
Chat to students
Listen to our podcast

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/research-degrees:
Find out more about the areas in which we supervise postgraduate research at both doctoral and masters levels.
Here we offer a flavour of potential topics for your own research project and who to contact to discuss your options.
If you are thinking about becoming a postgraduate researcher at Plymouth, you are welcome to contact the Postgraduate Research Coordinators in your field of interest.
They will discuss potential supervisors and answer any questions you might have.
Find out the difference between our range of research degree programmes: ResM, MPhil, PhD, MD, professional doctorates and PhD on the Basis of Prior Published Works.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/student-life:
Find your new home before you start your course
Discover what Plymouth and its unique geographical location have to offer
University support and ways to make your money go further as a student
One thing I found is everyone down here is just so friendly.
I wouldn’t swap my time in Plymouth for anywhere else.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/services/accommodation:
uniaccommodation@plymouth.ac.uk
+44 1752 588644
Accommodation Services, University of Plymouth, Drake Circus, Plymouth, Devon, PL4 8AA
By appointment only / Phone lines open between 10:00–14:00, Monday – Friday

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/services/library-services:
LibraryandITenquiries@plymouth.ac.uk
+44 1752 588588
The Charles Seale-Hayne Library, University of Plymouth, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA
Term time 08:30–midnight on weekdays (09:30–midnight weekends).
Vacation 08:30–18:00 on weekdays (09:30-18:00 on weekends).

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/student-life/academic-year-dates:
Find semester dates and other key dates for the current and upcoming academic year
Every effort has been made to ensure that the dates provided are accurate.
However, students should note that dates are subject to change.
If your course includes any periods of placement, please check with your faculty for advice on whether this affects your course duration.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/open-days:
Your opportunity to discuss postgraduate study, research, masters programmes and professional development at the University of Plymouth
Another benefit of attending an open day is you get to explore the University campus, see the spaces in which you’ll be studying and listen to lectures, as well as having the opportunity to see your course's facilities.
It may not feel like it would make a difference, but it allows you to see the spaces and imagine yourself studying there.
After feeling anxious about my future plans at some other universities, it was a revelation to come to Plymouth.
The warmth and friendliness of all the staff and students really made the university stand out.
It felt like a family.
All the student ambassadors were super friendly!
The admissions team were super helpful in finding a route that worked for me.
I got to talk about foundation years and talk to lecturers one to one.
It was really helpful to get that insight.
If you have any questions or queries about our events, please contact our friendly events team:
studentrecruitment@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research:
Find out about our internationally renowned research and expertise at the University of Plymouth
One of the largest marine and maritime portfolios in Europe, reinforced by an international reputation for world-leading, transdisciplinary research.
Cyber-Resilience of Offshore Wind Networks (CROWN) World-leading expertise in maritime cyber security and vulnerabilities of offshore wind control systems
Ropes to Reefs FISP Assessing the wider benefits of the UK’s first large-scale offshore mussel farm, and its impact on marine protected areas and fisheries
Virtual fish Working with industry and academia to develop 3D in vitro models as effective alternatives to live fish studies for biomedical research
Pioneering an interdisciplinary, systems-thinking approach to tackle sustainability challenges and connect research expertise with the wider world.
Environmental Land Management Strategic Knowledge Exchange Hub Research leadership and knowledge exchange to support the implementation of new agricultural policy
BIO-PLASTIC-RISK: biodegradable bioplastics – assessing environmental risk Research to establish the fate of biodegradable bioplastics in the environment and their effect on organisms and ecosystem function
Advancing Controlled Environment Agriculture Integrating dynamic LED lighting with artificial intelligence to optimise photosynthesis and crop health
Improving human health and care, from cutting-edge discovery research to translation into novel interventions and application within the community.
ICONIC: Intergenerational Codesign Of Novel technologies in Coastal communities Improving digital inclusion and fostering intergenerational connection in isolated regions with new technology
In vitro modelling of oral mucosal response to denture wear Analysing how tissue responds to the repeated physical pressure associated with functional dentures
TULAY: Co-designing Philippine community physical rehabilitation Working with stroke survivors and families to facilitate recovery care delivered within the community setting
Thought leadership and opinion from our experts to highlight how our research is tackling critical sustainability challenges.
More related news
More related events

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/institutes:
Our strategic institutes are aligned with our diverse research strengths and reflect our interdisciplinary approach.
They support and encourage collaborative activities, provide a first-class research environment for staff and students, and help to showcase the impact of our groundbreaking work to key audiences on a global stage.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/impact:
Plymouth's research and innovation consistently translates into real-world applications, reinforcing our broad leadership in marine and sustainability, and significant contributions to health and creative industry research.
Professor Kevin Jones Deputy Vice-Chancellor - Research and Innovation
Find an expert
Thought leadership
Public policy

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/ref2021:
Classification Overall quality profile description 4* World-leading in terms of originality, significance and rigour 3* Internationally excellent in terms of originality, significance and rigour but which nonetheless falls short of the highest standards of excellence 2* Recognised internationally in terms of originality, significance and rigour 1* Recognised nationally in terms of originality, significance and rigour U/C Unclassified Work not meeting published definition of research for the purposes of the REF or which falls below national standards
Output
Makes up 60% of the assessment and consists of outputs produced by the University during the assessment period (1 January 2014 to 31 December 2020).
They will be assessed for the quality in terms of their ‘originality, significance and rigour’, with reference to international research quality standards.
The total number of outputs must equal 2.5 times the summed FTE of the unit’s submitted staff.
Environment
This makes up 15% of the assessment and describes the environment we have to support our research.
This includes research strategy, staff development and support for PGRs, collaboration both inside and outside academia and equality and diversity.
It also includes data on research income and post-graduate degrees awarded.
This will be assessed in terms of its ‘vitality and sustainability’, including the approach to enabling impact from its research, and its contribution to the vitality and sustainability of the wider discipline or research base related to the period 1 August 2013 to 31 July 2020.
Impact
Makes up 25% of the assessment and consists of case studies detailing the benefits from our research.
They will be will assessed for the ‘reach and significance’ of impacts on the economy, society, culture, public policy or services, health, the environment or quality of life that were underpinned by excellent research conducted in the submitted unit.
The impact stays with the institution where the research was carried out, i.e.
it does not move with the member of staff.
Case studies describing specific examples of impacts achieved during the assessment period (1 August 2013 to 31 July 2020), underpinned by excellent research in the period 1 January 2000 to 31 December 2020.
Higher Education Funding Council for Wales (HEFCW)
Research England
Scottish Further and Higher Education Funding Council (SFC)
Department for the Economy
REF2014

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/public-policy:
Centre for Coastal Communities
Centre for Systems Thinking: Ocean, Land and Society
Centre for Decarbonisation and Offshore Renewable Energy
A team from the University attended ten days of discussions by delegates from across the world at INC-5.2
Academics attended a Westminster event where they showcased work to establish a green shipping corridor between the UK, Singapore and ASEAN region
Dr Alyson Norman worked with the All Party Parliamentary Group on Acquired Brain Injury and the UK Acquired Brain Injury Forum
New research confirms growing socio-economic challenges but highlights potential to drive national growth

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international:
Apply for a Student visa
International student advice
Moving to the UK to study
Student life: learn what it’s like to study here
Our international students share their experience
Explore our facilities
international@plymouth.ac.uk
+44 1752 588049
globalopportunities@plymouth.ac.uk
+44 1752 587518
studentservices@plymouth.ac.uk
+44 1752 587676
ukvi-reporting@plymouth.ac.uk
+44 1752 587800

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/services/international-student-advice:
Find out about events to help you settle in your first few weeks and throughout your time at university.
Prepare for an adventure as an international student in Plymouth.
Find out more about the services and support we provide to our students.
Discover our range of student accommodation options and how to apply as an international student
Chat with current students at the University and read their blogs
Develop your academic English language skills with our friendly and professional team

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/degree-apprenticeships:
People often think apprenticeships are for early career, but my experience has been invaluable to my senior leadership position.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/business-partners/enterprise-solutions/ktp:
Delivered 200+ unique KTPs
Received £20.5m total grant funding
Appointed 200+ associates
Most businesses and organisations are eligible for KTP if they are seeking expertise to solve an innovative strategic problem.
Find out how to get involved.
KTP projects facilitate innovation and impact with industry partners whilst contributing to the Research Excellence Framework.
KTP presents the opportunity to manage a challenging project central to the strategic development and long term growth of the business as well as providing personal development opportunities.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/business-partners/academic-partnerships:
Studying at a UK or international partner institution
We've collated the key information you need to know
Studying with a UK partner institution
Studying with an international partner institution
Progressing from a partner institution to the University of Plymouth to top up to an honours degree

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/business-partners/enterprise-solutions:
Housing contemporary specialist equipment and laboratories, the Babbage Building unites engineering, science and the arts under one roof, enabling innovative hybrid solutions for your business or enterprise.
This world class facility provides physical model testing with combined waves, currents and wind, offered at scales appropriate for device testing, array testing, environmental modelling and coastal engineering.
We have a comprehensive range of light and electron microscopes which cater to a wide range of disciplines within the University, external research organisations, and industry clients.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/about-us:
Strategy, mission and vision
Facts and figures
Donate to the University

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/strategy:
Our mission Advancing knowledge, transforming lives.
Advancing knowledge, transforming lives.
Our vision We will be a broad-based, research-intensive university, open to all who can benefit from a University of Plymouth education, and delivering excellent interdisciplinary research, experiential education and civic engagement.
We will be a broad-based, research-intensive university, open to all who can benefit from a University of Plymouth education, and delivering excellent interdisciplinary research, experiential education and civic engagement.
The Core Principles We will adapt our existing core strategic principles to enhance the University’s reputation and to understand sustainability as an embedded principle across everything we do.
1.
Quality : striving for the highest quality in everything we do.
2.
One Team : working, planning for and delivering a shared vision, underpinned by a strong sense of collegiality.
3.
Reputation : building our institutional reputation through confidence in our pioneering contributions, excellence in education and research, socio-economic impact, and thought leadership.
4.
Sustainability : sustainability in our finances, reputation, services, partnerships, environmental performance and global contribution.
We will adapt our existing core strategic principles to enhance the University’s reputation and to understand sustainability as an embedded principle across everything we do.
Marine and maritime environments and societies We want to maintain and build upon our pre-eminence internationally for contributions to the sustainability of marine and maritime environments and societies.
The marine environment is integral to the well-being of life on Earth.
Covering 70% of the Earth’s surface, the marine environment is home to 95% of the Earth’s species.
Humans are dependent on the oceans more than ever before – for food, oxygen, water, mineral, sustainable energy.
Yet vast areas remain unexplored.
Mega cities of the world are on coasts, capitalising on economic and trade benefits but impacting on, and vulnerable to, marine environments and climate change impacts.
Of growing economic importance, marine and maritime industries support over 950,000 jobs in the UK.
The UK has a Maritime Strategy to 2050 which supports significant investment as well as protection.
In the South-West, regional development strategy is strongly anchored in offshore renewable energy, autonomous shipping, marine cyber security and the health and well-being of both coastal and rural communities.
The University of Plymouth is pre-eminent in these matters, and more.
We want to maintain and build upon our pre-eminence internationally for contributions to the sustainability of marine and maritime environments and societies.
From its foundations as a College of Navigation in the 19th century, the University has built a unique breadth of disciplinary interests in matters relating to marine and maritime environments and societies.
Leading education and research in Marine Biology (not least in marine microplastics), Ocean Science and Marine Engineering is complemented by marine and maritime themes across the University, including in History, English, Education, Architecture and the Built Environment, the Business School, Law, Geography and Psychology.
Three times recipient of the Queen’s Anniversary prize, two of which were awarded for the University’s strengths in marine and maritime research.
Furthermore, Plymouth is the first choice for Health in the South-West, a focus for training of professionals in a system that can capitalise on the well-being opportunities of the ‘blue environment’, while responding to the problems common amongst ageing populations and the health inequalities of coastal communities.
Interdisciplinary health research includes links between marine biology and the discovery of novel antibiotics.
The University of Plymouth is equipped to build upon this base – given our location, the history and priorities of our City, our leading-edge education and research facilities, and our strong partnerships with research organisations and industries in Plymouth itself and internationally.
8 Deliver excellent education and research
8 Ensure an innovative education portfolio
8 Deliver programme excellence
8 Support strong research foundations and build research power
8 Nurture outstanding students and staff
8 Provide a distinctive South-West coast experience preparing graduates for the world
8 Attract, develop and retain excellent staff
8 Drive global connectivity that makes a difference
8 Achieve influence and impact through significant industry and business partnerships
8 Maximise reach through strategic and exciting institutional partnerships
How will we know that our strategy for excellence has been successful?
In summary, by 2030 the University will be: A broad-based, international university of the region, maintaining pre-eminence in research and education in marine and maritime environments and societies, and leadership in environmental sustainability.
Exuding confidence in its excellence and impact.
Attracting, investing in, and retaining the very best staff who are delivering excellence, with critical mass built and maintained in areas of research excellence.
At least 75% of academic staff will be defined as ‘research-active’.
Leading research responses to global challenges, particularly through international and interdisciplinary collaborations.
Impacting economic and societal outcomes through strong and productive industrial and civic engagement.
Nurturing skilled, adaptable and resilient graduates who become global citizens and leaders.
Delivering a mixed portfolio of level and type of programmes, predicting market needs, responsive to new opportunities and reflective of research strengths.
At least 20% of the student population will be postgraduate taught students and at least 20% international students.
Prioritising personalised, research-led and experiential education and learning, connecting with learners internationally.
Sustaining an exciting group of international partnerships that are flourishing in terms of education and research, the exchange of staff and students and project collaboration.
Significant partnerships with leading marine and maritime institutions will be a defining characteristic.
Ensuring thought-leadership, setting policy agendas locally, nationally and internationally, and communicating and engaging effectively with all stakeholders.
In summary, by 2030 the University will be:
Our culture, ways of working and investment will be driving this success.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/students-and-family/governance:
From our Board of Governors to our policies and regulations, find out about the way the University of Plymouth is run

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/alumni:
Request replacement award certificates
Our alumni have access to a range of benefits from discounted postgraduate study and scholarships to tailored careers and mentoring support.
Join events, hear from recent graduates, stay connected.
Discover how you can help support the University and future generations of Plymouth alumni.
Here at Plymouth, we create opportunities for alumni to connect with each other.
From sector-specific groups to regional and international networks, our global community enables alumni and students to network both socially and professionally.
Celebrating our amazing alumni and sharing their stories
Explore the many different ways you can donate to and support the University of Plymouth.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/news:
News, views and features from around the University
Find an expert commentator for your story
Discover our take on what's making the news
Filming at the University of Plymouth
publicrelations@plymouth.ac.uk
+44 1752 582020
Media and Communications, 
University of Plymouth, 
8 Portland Villas, 
Drake Circus, 
Plymouth, 
Devon,
PL4 8AA

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/visit:
Discover a thriving waterfront city at the heart of the stunning South West.
Choose the perfect place to study and play, and experience culture, history, arts and sport joining students from all over the world at the largest university in the South West.
Get to know us at open day events throughout the year, where you can find out more about the University, our campus, people and study opportunities.
Photographs courtesy of Getty Images

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/jobs:
About us
University structure
Plymouth is located in the beautiful South West of England – an ideal location for leisure and learning, with plenty of quiet spaces and recreational opportunities.
Plymouth enjoys a combination of modern city living and rural charm.
It is around three to four hours by train to London and there are ferry links to France and Spain.
A member of the campaign to promote women in science, technology and engineering.
Stonewall Diversity Champion
jobs@plymouth.ac.uk
+44 1752 588255
Monday–Thursday 8:30–17:00, Friday 8:30–16:30
@JobswithPlymUni

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/students-and-family/contact:
Get in touch

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/clearing:
Chronic illness, disability or challenges at home don’t have to be taboo or set you back.
Clearing is a great option to talk through what you need to, and be recognised for more than just the grades you’ve achieved.
Clearing gave me a chance – and I want others to know they can do it too.
I never thought of myself as being smart enough for university and I thought that I had missed the sign-up date, but after looking at the University of Plymouth website I found out what Clearing is and decided to take my chances.
My Clearing experience was good.
I didn’t know if I had an option to come to uni and then I received a call.
I didn’t get the right grades, but Plymouth offered me a foundation year which was even better.
It boosted my confidence massively and it really helped with my first year.
Clearing gave me the opportunity to secure a place with confidence, allowing me to make a more informed decision about my future.
It ultimately led me to the right course and made me confident in this huge decision I was making.
Read more Clearing stories

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/clearing/experiences/clearing-call-centre:
Find a quiet spot where you won’t be interrupted
Make sure your phone is charged and has a strong signal
Have a friend or family member nearby if you want support
It’s okay to change your mind during the call – we're here to help you find the right path
If you decide to pause and call back later, we would be happy to speak to you again
My advice would be to keep your options open.
Ensure you find some time to do some research and find what options are out there for you!
When Clearing opens, we will be waiting to discuss your options with you.
Philippa, BA (Hons) Acting
Have all your grades to hand.
Stay positive.
Ask us anything, even if it’s about our own personal experiences and recommendations.
Think about what you enjoy at home, and ask if we know if it can be done here in Plymouth.
It more than likely can...
There is so much to do here in Plymouth.
Especially within the clubs and societies, there are things I’d never even considered or heard of!
Lee, BSc (Hons) Dietetics
I love interacting with people, helping students achieve their university dream and most importantly, sharing my experiences and love for all that is Plymouth and the University.
Tsian, BSc (Hons) Environmental Science with Foundation
I have been a Clearing Ambassador for four years and I really enjoy it every year.
I like being able to help people achieve their goals of studying a certain subject.
Being a small part of their journey into university is a very rewarding experience.
I also know how frantic the whole experience can be, having been through it myself, so I like to be able to reassure prospective students that we are here to help as much as possible.
Hannah, BMBS Medicine

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/clearing/courses:
Find the right course for you starting in 2025

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/clearing-business:
| Choose to graduate with a specialism in your degree title: Project Management, Human Resource Management, International Business, or Marketing
S Build your professional network and gain experience, and put theory into practice with an optional, paid placement year
?
Collaborate on live business briefs with consultancy professionals and impress industry leaders with your problem-solving skills

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/clearing-healthcare:
, Provider of the largest range of healthcare programmes in the South West
Experience interprofessional learning to develop your clinical skills and prepare for your career
The academic staff at Plymouth are so supportive and I thoroughly believe that they have helped me to get to where I am now.
The course really provides opportunities to discover which areas you might want to work in, with modules in volunteering and shadowing.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/clearing-design:
Ranked 2nd in the UK for Creative Arts and Design: National Student Survey 2025
Ranked 1st in the South West for Creative Arts and Design learning opportunities National Student Survey 2025
} Become a creative entrepreneur.
Develop your business acumen alongside your artistic talents
Access industry-standard cutting-edge technologies

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/foundation:
6 Step 1: Foundation year – gain the knowledge and skills you will need to complete your course
6 Step 2: Undergraduate course – join and complete the degree (normally 3+ years)
6 Step 3: Graduation – graduate with a full degree in your chosen subject
6 Step 4: Start your career or continue onto postgraduate studies
Just being able to express my ideas in a safe environment without feeling judged or pressured or like I'm being laughed at has been absolutely incredible.
The best part of the foundation year for me was the confidence it gave me.
It's changed me as a person.
I thought getting into university wasn't something I'd ever be able to do.
Now I feel more confident, happier – more myself than I was before.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/tef:
Our staff have immense energy, passion and skill that enables our students to enjoy an outstanding experience and education.
Delivering excellence in teaching and learning is absolutely core to our mission of advancing knowledge and transforming lives.
We are committed to helping students get the most out of their studies and extra-curricular activities, so they are prepared for whatever opportunities and challenges might come their way in the future.
Professor John Curnow Deputy Vice Chancellor, Education and Student Experience

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/careers-and-employment:
] Over 95%* of our graduates are working or studying 15 months after graduating (Graduate Outcomes Survey 2023/24)
* We have supported students to complete over 40,000 hours of paid part-time work on campus so far this academic year
< We have strong links with international, national, regional, and local employers
ã We have a wide range of employer-led careers information and recruitment events
[ Ranked 2nd for Career Prospects in the South West for 2025 (source: whatuni.com)
I started checking myCareer as soon as it became available to me because I really wanted to work during my time at university.
I found an amazing role as a Student Programme Support Assistant in which I've been able to help bring the student perspective on to the Student Records System project at the University.
I highly recommend students to start checking myCareer as soon as they start even considering getting a job during their time at university.
The variety of services and amount of support the Careers Service offer is amazing.
I reached out to the Careers team from my earliest steps in my job search and they stayed with me to the end.
The members of staff offered me valuable advice at every session and built up my courage to go further.
Thanks to them, I attended the interview a lot calmer, and it proved to be a success.
An internship is eye opening.
I don’t have to just focus on books.
I can use writing and research skills and go in a completely different direction.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/student-life/city-culture:
Burrator Reservoir , Dartmoor National Park
The overall vibe of the city is perfect.
You are by the sea so it is still laid back, but you have all the conveniences of living in a city.
There is a lot to do in terms of nightlife here.
The Students' Union is a prime spot where there are loads of events that take place, and after dark it turns into a club, which is the best I've been to!
Plymouth is so beautiful and things like going paddle boarding, wild swimming and watching the sunrise by the sea are actually the best things ever.
I love it so much!
With a focus on sustainable travel our city-centre campus makes getting around on foot, by bike, or bus, simple.
The majority of accommodation options are found on or in close proximity to campus, which keeps things simple and convenient.
Our campus has a security team and we work closely with the local police to ensure that our campus and surrounding area is safe for our students.
As well as being where you'll spend time studying, our main campus is a hive of activity, providing social spaces, including the Students' Union, and easy access to the library and support services.
I never felt out of place or that I didn’t belong.
You will always find people similar to you no matter what your background.
Plymouth is an intricate city filled with hidden gems such as antique shops, little cafes with reading corners and amazing food!
My flatmates and I try to explore as much as possible, and it still feels like a little holiday every time.
From picturesque beaches to quirky towns, the south-west has loads of places to visit, all within reach from Plymouth by public transport
From rambling walks to bouldering, there are loads of ways to experience the great outdoors on Plymouth’s doorstep
From mountain bike trails to the smooth roads criss-crossing Dartmoor, five students from our cycling club share their top places to go for a ride

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/sustainable-energy:
If we are to meet our targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to net zero by 2050, then we need a diverse energy mix.
That means not only on- and offshore wind, but also solar, tidal stream and wave energy.
You can’t simply rely on one because environmental factors will dictate when they’re available."
Professor Deborah Greaves OBE FREng Professor in Ocean Engineering
We are recognised as an innovative leader in higher education for sustainability, across teaching and learning, research and our University operations
Centre for Decarbonisation and Offshore Energy Find out more about the role that offshore renewable energy can play to help us meet our net-zero targets
Clean maritime technologies Accelerating clean maritime innovation and growth
Maritime Transport Research Group On a mission to introduce digitalisation and decarbonisation into the maritime transport sector

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/production-and-consumption:
Every year, one third of all food produced is wasted, partially due to poor harvesting processes.
'Care for the land' project in East Africa Ensuring socio-economic resilience to the impacts of soil erosion on agriculture
Agri-Tech Cornwall Helping the United Kingdom become a world leader in agricultural technology and sustainability
Capitalising on trade: the rising importance of freeports Helping SMEs to establish more efficient and economic trade operations

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/future-health-and-wellbeing:
We believe that deep-sea sponges contain diverse populations of new cultivable and non-cultivable bacteria.
These represent a substantial uncharacterised and untapped source of bioactive molecules which could help meet the urgent need for new antimicrobials and have other health benefit applications.
Professor Mathew Upton Professor of Medical Microbiology
PLymouth ANtimicrobial EngagemenT (PLANET) Initiative Committed to discovering new antibiotics that will ensure future health conditions can be treated
Antibiotic resistant pathogens research group Researching pathogens that cause drug-resistant infections

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/facilities:
Offering access to cutting-edge technology such as motion-capture, augmented and extended reality and a wide array of digital fabrication tools
Gain valuable professional experience working with real cases and clients in the community
Test your forensic recovery skills using simulated crime scene locations and scenarios
Analyse the markets, assess economic scenarios and interpret key news developments
Learn skills at your own pace in a safe and supported environment
Develop your marine science learning aboard boats with the latest instrumentation and specialist software
Food and drink on campus
Students' Union
Sports facilities
Plymouth is an amazing university because of the location and atmosphere, and also the amount it offers.
The Students’ Union offers a fantastic range of support and events and the city feels really safe.
Facilities for floating offshore wind operations
Brain Research and Imaging Centre
Cyber-SHIP Lab

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/whats-on/attenborough-ocean:
Roland Levinsky Cinema
Event photography and video
Please be aware that some of the University of Plymouth's public events (both online and offline) may be attended by University staff, photographers and videographers, for capturing content to be used in University online and offline marketing and promotional materials, for example webpages, brochures or leaflets.
If you, or a member of your group, do not wish to be photographed or recorded, please let a member of staff know.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/whats-on/investing-in-energy-transition:
Rolle Marquee, University of Plymouth

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/open-days/ugopendays:
On campus
Plan your visit with maps and information on travel, journey times and parking
Book your place
I chose Plymouth because it had such a great atmosphere when I visited the open day.
It was friendly, informative and exciting.
I definitely recommend visiting.
The warmth and friendliness of all the staff and students really made the University stand out.
University of Plymouth | Plymouth | Devon | PL4 8AA | United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/whats-on/girls-into-ocean-science:
University of Plymouth Marine Station, Artillery Place, Plymouth, Devon PL4 0LU

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/news/celebrating-excellence-in-postgraduate-research:
30 July 2025
This year’s excellent results reflect a real team effort to improve the postgraduate research experience, and I am delighted we have achieved them.
Professor Richard Yarwood Outgoing Director of the University’s Doctoral College
My overriding impression of this institution during my first year here is that it is a brilliant place to work and study, and I am delighted to see that experience borne out by these superb results.
Professor Richard Davies Vice-Chancellor
Study for a postgraduate research degree
Support from our Doctoral College
5 Nov 2025 16:00-19:00
Postgraduate on-campus open evening

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/help:
Help and information on using the University of Plymouth website

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/university-structure/service-areas/procurement/modern-slavery-statement:
University Of Plymouth (and subsidiary companies) Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Annual Statement

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/intercalated-degrees:
BA (Hons) English
BA (Hons) English and Creative Writing
BA (Hons) History
BSc (Hons) International Relations
BA (Hons) Music
BSc (Hons) Sociology
MSc Business and Management
BSc (Hons) Critical Care (Intercalated)
BSc (Hons) Medical Sciences
BSc (Hons) Urgent and Emergency Care (Intercalated)
MClinEd Clinical Education
MClinRes Clinical Research
MSc Biomedical Science
MSc Expedition and Marine Medicine
MSc Healthcare Management, Leadership and Innovation
MSc Psychology
BSc (Hons) Environmental Science
MSc Heath Data Science and Statistics
MSc Medical Engineering

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/schools:
The University of Plymouth's teaching and research activities are divided into the following Schools, each of which has its own specialist staff and facilities.
Get a flavour for each School by browsing through their own websites and pages listed here.
Plymouth Business School.
An enterprising environment driving sustainable prosperity, enabling our students and partners to achieve their full potential.
The University of Plymouth School of Art, Design and Architecture offers high quality, student-centred degrees, postgraduate programmes and research opportunities relevant to today's cultural, creative, architectural and design related industries.
The University of Plymouth School of Law, Humanities and Social Sciences is a place of progression in a progressive world.
The Peninsula Dental School is committed to three core aims: outstanding clinical education; strong social engagement; and world class research which will all feature strongly in your learning experience.
The Peninsula Medical School is committed to three core aims: outstanding clinical education; strong social engagement; and world class research which will all feature strongly in your learning experience.
The School of Biomedical Sciences is committed to three core aims: outstanding clinical education; strong social engagement; and world class research which will all feature strongly in your learning experience.
The School of Health Professions has something for everyone interested in health and care–related professions.
Our courses in the fields of adult, child and mental health nursing and in midwifery have been designed with your career and the future needs of the workforce in mind.
The University of Plymouth School of Psychology is in the top 20 in the UK, with 50 staff and over 800 students.
Welcome to the University of Plymouth School of Biological and Marine Sciences.
The school is a great place to study biology and ecology - fantastic location, great facilities and a choice of undergraduate and postgraduate courses to suit your interests.
The School of Engineering, Computing and Mathematics is a friendly, creative and inspiring place to study.
Including many internationally recognised experts, our staff are passionate about providing an innovative and inspiring learning experience.
The School of Geography, Earth and Environmental Sciences is comprised of four distinct areas, each delivering exceptional teaching, support and research.
The British College of Osteopathic Medicine (BCOM), a University of Plymouth partner institution.
Find out more about studying at Bridgwater & Taunton College, as part of the University of Plymouth's Academic Partnerships.
University of Plymouth partner institutions: Bundeswehr University Munich.
Find out more about studying at City College Plymouth, as part of the University of Plymouth's Academic Partnerships.
Find out more about studying at City of Bristol College, as part of the University of Plymouth Academic Partnerships.
Find out more about studying at Cornwall College, as part of the University of Plymouth's Academic Partnerships.
Find out more about studying at Dartington Trust, A University of Plymouth partner college.
Find out more about studying at Exeter College, as part of the University of Plymouth's Academic Partnerships.
Find out more about studying at Highlands College Jersey, as part of the University of Plymouth's Academic Partnerships.
Since 2012 Plymouth Graduate School of Management staff have been delivering the highly acclaimed Doctorates in Business Administration and Public Administration in Geneva.
International Osteopathic Education - University of Plymouth Partner College
KSMA is a Higher Educational Institution of the fourth accreditation level in Ukraine, training maritime professionals with academic degrees.
The partnership with the University of Plymouth was initiated as part of the #TwinForHope campaign.
MLA College is an award-winning provider of online distance learning degrees in a range of subjects.
Find out more about studying at MWS - HMTU, HMS Drake, a University of Plymouth academic partner.
Find out more about studying at PETROC, as part of the University of Plymouth's Academic Partnerships.
University of Plymouth partner institution - RILA Institute of Health Sciences.
RILA will act as an international recruitment agent for PUPSMD’s MClinEd Clinical Education and MSc Remote and Global Healthcare.
Find out more about studying at South Devon College, as part of the University of Plymouth's Academic Partnerships.
Find out more about studying at Strode College, as part of the University of Plymouth's Academic Partnerships.
Find out more about studying at Truro and Penwith College, as part of the University of Plymouth's Academic Partnerships.
Find out more about studying at Weymouth College, as part of the University of Plymouth's Academic Partnerships.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/partner-institutions:
Our partners range from large further education institutions with a broad mix of students and courses, to smaller specialist institutions with unique facilities.
Our partner institutions offer an experience uniquely different to what can be found on large university campuses, and you benefit from a supportive learning environment in a small, friendly community.
Class sizes tend to be smaller, and studying in a more intimate and highly supportive academic community can give a good start to university-level studies.
Your course is of the same high quality and standard as all university courses, and your qualification is awarded by the University.
You’ll be able to take advantage of the facilities and services that your local college provides, and the additional support and resources available from the University.
You’re given a University computing account enabling you to access a wealth of electronic resources and study guides and will automatically become a member of the University’s Students’ Union (UPSU).
< Studying locally is often cheaper and more convenient
Many courses are designed with the help of local employers and are aimed at providing local employment opportunities
J Flexible study (both full time and part time) makes it easier to find the time to learn
[ Local colleges can offer top-quality education in an environment that is smaller and more personal
8 There are planned progression routes to the University for most partner courses

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/progression:
You'll get to explore the university campus, see the spaces in which you’ll be studying and listen to lectures, as well as having the opportunity to see your course's facilities.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/january:
You aren’t ready to start in September
There are a lot of reasons why September starts don’t work for everyone.
Perhaps you may want to take resits or spend some time considering your options.
We appreciate that it can be a challenging process and a September start may not work for everyone.
Maybe you chose the wrong course for you?
If you have started a course and realised that this wasn’t the right decision then our January courses can offer you a fresh start.
You need flexibility
Sometimes September starts just don’t work in your schedule, and we understand that, so we are here to offer some flexibility.
Perhaps you are a mature student looking to study for the first time or you could be looking to boost your qualifications then a January start date can offer you the flexibility you need.
We also have school leavers who are working on internships or taking a mini break, whatever your circumstances, you can relax knowing your place is secure for your January start.
You are unable travel to the UK for a September start
With the current situation, and the impact of travel restrictions, many of our international applicants are facing a lot of uncertainty.
However, a January start can leave you with more confidence that you will be able begin your journey here with us on campus.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/subjects/architecture-design-building-construction:
“I was always really taken by art and the sciences at school.
I recognised that the field of architecture perfectly epitomised my childhood attraction to buildings, and the symbiotic relationship between art and science was at its core.” BA (Hons) Architecture is providing Freya with the framework to realise her dream of becoming a professional architect
BA (Hons) Architecture is providing Freya with the framework to realise her dream of becoming a professional architect
Our designated architecture studio spaces provide a unique learning environment A range of well resourced specialist laboratory, computer-aided design (CAD), and materials workshop facilities are all in close proximity, putting industry-standard facilities at your fingertips.
A range of well resourced specialist laboratory, computer-aided design (CAD), and materials workshop facilities are all in close proximity, putting industry-standard facilities at your fingertips.
Benefit from fully accredited degrees Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB) Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) Chartered Association of Building Engineers (CABE)
Benefit from fully accredited degrees
George Davies BA (Hons) Architecture graduate

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/subjects/biological-sciences:
Plymouth’s optional placement year really won me over when choosing a course – the flexibility they give you compared to other universities is second to none.
It was fantastic to get the experience to design my own research project and to execute it in the field.
[ Accredited degrees
B Field trips
( Placement opportunities
, Unique location
Ì Practical skills
Ê Friendly environment
ë Facilities
Æ Career opportunities
x Research
< International opportunities
I love the course as it meant I could do anything biology related.
The lecturers are amazing; they are really helpful, so don't be afraid to ask them anything.
Field trips are really important because they give us a chance to get out in the field, and we get really in-depth time with lecturers to absorb their knowledge, which is an amazing experience.
It is incredibly rewarding to see animals going from being on the brink of death to thriving and living the life they should be - which is what I witnessed with the young tamandua I cared for.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/subjects/business-law-logistics-management:
See how our degrees have enabled them to succeed
Studying at Plymouth didn’t change my career aspirations or plans, it helped me to prepare for them.
Speaking in front of people, doing essays, the placement – it really helps you for the future, if you know how to talk in front of people and work for yourself.
The study trips available through the University inspired me to take up a career in the port industry.
This experience, alongside the modules I was taught, gave me sufficient knowledge to join the industry as a fresh graduate.
Plymouth was my first choice as I loved the location, the variety of sports and societies on offer, and the variety of practical and business elements present on the course.
I wanted to find a course that prepared me for the events industry through practical application instead of just focusing on theory.
I can still remember how I felt when I first came to this new country.
Fear, loneliness, shyness…however, the University helped me to get used to living and studying in the UK.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/subjects/chemistry:
Our Chemistry degrees have been ranked number one in UK for student satisfaction with teaching and for satisfaction with feedback by the Guardian Best UK Universities guide 2025
Chemistry ranked 3rd in the UK for overall student satisfaction and 1st in the South West for graduate prospects in the Complete University Guide 2026
Our undergraduate chemistry degrees are accredited by the Royal Society of Chemistry
Be taught by award-winning professional chemists
c Maximise your hands-on laboratory time through degrees with a focus on coursework
Three of our laboratories are certified to the ISO 9001 standard and you will work in these during your chemistry degree
Chemists play a vital role in tackling key societal challenges, including sustainability, health, energy and protecting the environment.
To ensure our gradua...
If you are interested in chemistry but don’t have the qualifications to apply for a degree, this could be the pathway for you.
Build your skills and knowledg...
Environmental chemists will play a vital role in tackling global environmental challenges, including sustainability, human health, green energy and protectin...
Environmental geochemistry is central to the environmental sector which has grown rapidly over the last decade.
The global environmental consultancy market, ...
The programme will provide you with the opportunity to conduct research alongside staff at the forefront of the chemistry subject discipline.
Research projec...
The programme provides you with the opportunity to conduct research alongside staff at the forefront of the chemistry subject discipline.
Research project op...

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/subjects/computer-science:
Technology continues to revolutionise the way we live, build, work, shop, learn and even access medical care.
At Plymouth, you will gain hands-on skills acro...
Artificial intelligence (AI) is a rapidly growing field within computer science.
At Plymouth, you'll gain the skills you need to excel in your AI expert care...
Cyber security is an ever-increasing demand within every organisation across the world.
Explore the biggest threats to our data from hackers, malicious coder...
At Plymouth, you will create your own apps, games, virtual and mixed reality solutions to build your profile as a versatile developer.
You'll be challenged t...
Computing and software development drives many of the world’s greatest technologies, helping us to live, learn, build and even save lives.
Combine computer s...
Technology has revolutionised the way we live, build, work, shop, learn and even access medical care.
On this forward-looking degree, you’ll get hands-on ski...
This unique joint course across electronic engineering and computer science offers opportunities to respond to the growing worldwide demands in complex techn...
Cyber security is essential for all organisations, with hacking, malicious code and social engineering ever present threats to data.
This programme provides ...
This one-year conversion MSc is designed for graduates from a wide range of disciplines and experience.
It gives you skills in data analytics, computing and ...
Most of our programmes comprise input from researchers, current practitioners, professional bodies, business and industry.
This ensures they are current, rel...
Cyber security is a fundamental requirement for all users of technology – helping to protect organisations and people from a significant, wide variety and co...
x Computer science's application spans across multiple industries, including finance, business, health and engineering
< Benefit from research and industry-informed teaching led by commercially active staff
* Gain invaluable experience and skills through paid work placements
Access  a wide variety of specialist facilities
Plymouth has a great emphasis on employability and that’s what really attracted me to the University and the course.
Everything I did as part of my studies has been transferable to the workplace.
I have been to America half a dozen times, but the most amazing part was going to the Microsoft global conference where around 15,000 Microsoft employees gather in a stadium to cheer on our then CEO.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/subjects/creative-arts:
When I came to the University and I met the lecturers, I realised it was the best decision that I took for myself.
They guide you, they shape you, they shape your work.
They help get the best out of you.
Filmmaking is such a creative course and provided me with opportunities for experimentation and collaboration, allowing me space to create my own aesthetic style as a filmmaker.
Studying at Plymouth allowed me to gain countless new musical skills as well as knowledge about the interesting histories of different forms and genres of music from all around the globe.
The House performing arts centre
Music suites
3D design facilities
Digital Fabrication and Immersive Media Laboratory
Screen, Letterpress & Print Studios
Photographic Darkrooms & Studios
Film & TV Studio, Audio & Animation
Ceramics and Casting & Moulding Workshops
Jill Craigie cinema
Digital Design & Fabrication
Wood & Metal Workshops
Make, VR & Game Lab

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/subjects/design:
“Plymouth helps you to set out as the designer you want to be.
The modules can be as challenging as you want them to be, allowing you to express your own individual style.” BA (Hons) Graphic Communication with Typography graduate Danny Skinner shares how his degree helped shape his career and begin a journey that led him to work for IBM
BA (Hons) Graphic Communication with Typography graduate Danny Skinner shares how his degree helped shape his career and begin a journey that led him to work for IBM
“It was the creativity that I really connected with in my degree.
I wanted to solve a problem and go for it.” Since graduating from the BA (Hons) 3D Design: Designer Maker degree, James Otter has slowly built up his bespoke surfboard design business and achieved national recognition, not just for the standards of his craftsmanship, but also for the way he champions sustainability
Since graduating from the BA (Hons) 3D Design: Designer Maker degree, James Otter has slowly built up his bespoke surfboard design business and achieved national recognition, not just for the standards of his craftsmanship, but also for the way he champions sustainability

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/subjects/education-teaching:
James Whitbread: from business to the education sector
Annabel Brown: learning to teach
Dr Martyn Rawson: a career in teaching
This degree has allowed me the space to pursue my interest in outdoor education and delve into gender education.
I now step into the world with new perspectives, increased confidence, and a burning desire to continue to learn.
I have gained more from this degree than I ever dreamed I would.
I cannot recommend it highly enough to do it justice.
This experience not only helped me to boost my self-confidence but also made me realise how I was more capable of facing challenges.
Being able to choose my own placement related to the career path I wanted has allowed me to not only gain confidence in how I can achieve goals but also expand my knowledge.
It allowed me to explore my options, finding different places where I could work and jobs I did not know existed, testing out how comfortable I would be in a role.
It has made me more confident in the route I want to go down by having experience in that field.
Meeting all the different lecturers was enjoyable.
They've all come from different specialist areas but essentially are all working towards one goal – making us better practitioners when working with children.
Teaching is not for everyone.
It is not an easy job, but it is by far one of the most rewarding careers you can go into.
I love being a teacher!
You can be as creative as you want to teach your children.
Studying at Plymouth helped me become so much more independent and adventurous, everyone is so friendly.
The Primary Education course is also very good; we had lots of placements to prepare ourselves for the real world and the assignments were always interesting.
If you want a career in further education colleges, adult and community education, work-based training, and public sector organisations, our programme helps ...
Take a fresh look at childhood.
Explore the theory of children's early years from perspectives including sociology, social psychology, history, and philosoph...
Explore the theory and reality of children's early years through a variety of perspectives including sociology, social psycho...
This course considers education as life wide and lifelong, in work and play.
Education transforms lives, and we pride ourselves on offering a course that cre...
Are you passionate about shaping the future of education and changing lives?
Are you interested in working with primary-aged children in schools or other set...
The formative years of a child’s life are fundamental to their future – shaping the cognitive, emotional and social development that shapes our behaviour, un...
Do you dream of shaping a better, more just world?
Educators can inspire lasting change, and this degree equips you to understand the challenges and drive th...
Are you a doctor, dentist or other healthcare professional seeking to develop your role as a teacher, trainer, supervisor or mentor?
This programme builds yo...
Our MA Education programme focuses on educational practice using methods of practice-related inquiry.
Building on our recognised excellence in postgraduate t...
If you are considering a career in further education colleges, adult and community education, work-based training, and public sector organisations, our progr...
This PhD allows you to join a vibrant research community where you can explore a question about formal or informal education and learning that interests you,...
If you are responsible for leading learning in your organisation, whether it’s a school, college, higher education institution or as an educator in the publi...
If you are responsible for leading learning in a school, college or higher education institution whether in the public or private sector, or if you are invol...

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/subjects/engineering-robotics:
@ Be taught by internationally recognised experts passionate about an excellent learning experience.
@ All our courses are accredited by appropriate professional bodies affiliated to the UK Engineering Council.
@ Gain hands-on learning with our world-class facilities, laboratories and workshops.
@ Our strong links with industry ensure our teaching remains relevant to your future career.
Choosing Plymouth provided me with a fantastic understanding of the industry, knowledge of practical engineering design and naval architecture.
The Marine Building is a great facility to undertake practical sessions.
The course was varied and the range of modules covered was great, which prepared me for entering the engineering industry as a Site Engineer.
Studying robotics at Plymouth gave me a vast area of knowledge and an excellent foundation to use a wide range of robotic engineering applications, from walking robots to assembly line arm robots.
COAST Engineering Research Group
Nanotechnology and Electronics Research Group
Autonomous Marine Systems Research Group
MAterials and STructures (MAST) Research Group

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/allied-health-professions:
8 We are the largest provider of healthcare courses in the South West
8 Our courses are accredited by a range of health regulatory and professional bodies
8 Open the door to over 200 different career pathway options
Access state-of-the-art clinical and research facilities to maximise your skills
8 Participate in stimulating placements
8 Embark on unique inter-professional, hands-on and active real-world learning
Study for a PhD with the School of Health Professions and join a supportive community of healthcare professionals working to ensure our research breakthroughs lead to direct benefits for patients and communities.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/subjects/humanities-languages:
BA (Hons) Anthropology
BA (Hons) Creative Writing
MA Creative Writing
MA English Literature
MA History
MA Maritime History
MA Heritage Theory and Practice

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/subjects/law-criminology-policing:
The Law Clinic provided opportunities to put into practice what I was studying.
Applying theory and developing the skill set for dealing with extremely vulnerable people can't be taught in a book.
Working in the Crime Suite allows me to learn practically.
We study motives and connect them to the crime and the physical evidence.
For example, fingerprints, weapons and CCTV.
Leaning about criminal justice inspires me to learn more about society and how relevant this field is to our everyday lives.
The content we work through within this course is catered specifically to educate us on everything we will need when we graduate and enter the real sector of policing.
LLM Law
MSc Criminology
Postgraduate research opportunities

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/subjects/marine:
Plymouth boasts one of the most prestigious clusters of marine teaching, research and educational organisations in Europe Some 3,000 marine staff, researchers and students are represented by the University’s Marine Institute which is the first and largest such institute in the UK.
Plymouth’s strength in marine is further reinforced by our partners across the city.
The Marine Biological Association of the United Kingdom, Plymouth Marine Laboratory and the UK National Marine Aquarium are all within walking distance of the University.
These and our many other partners across the globe work with us on our research, by providing excellent student placement opportunities and a diverse range of career options for our graduates.
City officials have committed to designating the seas around Plymouth as the UK’s first National Marine Park - a catalyst to change the relationship between the citizens of coastal cities and their marine surroundings.
Our graduates go on to do amazing things.
Our alumni hold leading positions in the marine sector and across the globe.
“If you want to just read about marine biology, then anywhere will be fine.
However, if you want to live marine biology, then it has to be Plymouth.” Davis Laundon: pursuing a career in research
Davis Laundon: pursuing a career in research
Epic voyages of legacy and discovery In August and September 2020, scientists from the School of Geography, Earth and Environmental Sciences joined an ambitious round Britain voyage.
Coordinated by UK-based charity Darwin200, the tall ship Pelican of London set sail from Folkestone and visited the major ports of the British Isles before arriving in London almost seven weeks later.
Dr Charlotte Braungardt and Dr Richard Sandford led a range of scientific experiments in fields including marine plastics, ocean chemistry, plankton, marine ecology and ocean processes.
This voyage is a precursor to the global Darwin200 expedition in 2021, which will harness the legacy of Charles Darwin by retracing his journey on board HMS Beagle.
Find out more about about Dr Braungardt and Dr Sandford's research
In August and September 2020, scientists from the School of Geography, Earth and Environmental Sciences joined an ambitious round Britain voyage.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/subjects/mathematical-sciences:
78% of research outputs graded as ‘world leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’ (REF, 2021)
The Institute of Mathematics and its Applications (IMA) accredited degrees
We support our students to master beautiful and challenging material
As your knowledge and understanding deepen you may choose to continue along the core BSc (Hons) Mathematics pathway or select one of our specialist pathways – BSc (Hons) Mathematics with Education or BSc (Hons) Mathematics with Finance.
Discover the formula for teaching mathematics.
An ideal preparation for a career in mathematics teaching, this pathway will also prepare you for many careers where high-level mathematical skills and communication of ideas are essential.
Learn to understand the financial sector and model financial products.
As well as thorough mathematical training, you will be introduced to the financial world through modules in accountancy, financial institutions and investment management.
You gain experience in pure mathematics and hands-on applications of mathematics.
Whether that be development of coding skills or research style investigations, these hands-on experiences are enjoyable as well as useful.
Ultimately, it was a combination of factors: the supportive teaching style, the academics enthusiasm, the vibrant location, and the friendly atmosphere that made Plymouth feel like the right place for me.
The course was everything I was hoping it would be from the choice of modules and quality of teaching through to exposure to a wide range of excellent CV enhancing opportunities and experiences.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/subjects/medicine-dentistry-biomedical-healthcare-sciences:
A rich variety of placements in primary and secondary care
Hands-on approach with early clinical contact
State-of-the-art dental education facilities
Be taught by research scientists at the top of their field
Individual personal support
Select topics and areas of special interest to study
“If it wasn’t for the University giving me an opportunity, I wouldn’t already have a neuroscience publication under my name.
You are able to get all the opportunities you wish for...” Since graduating in BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science graduate Sara has published a paper in neuroscience, volunteered at the frontline of a refugee crisis and trained as a medical technologist
Since graduating in BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science graduate Sara has published a paper in neuroscience, volunteered at the frontline of a refugee crisis and trained as a medical technologist

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/nursing-midwifery:
Truro School of Nursing – The Knowledge Spa The Exeter School of Nursing
We offer a range of post-registration and professional development programmes to further your qualifications and help you meet your career goals.
Find out more about our professional development opportunities
Open the door to over 200 different career pathway options
8 Participate in stimulating practice placements
If someone asks you to picture a doctor, it’s likely you’ll picture a man.
If someone asks you to picture a nurse, it’s more likely you’ll picture a woman.
This unconscious bias is on the way to being addressed on the medical front as female medical student numbers have escalated in recent years – with women now accounting for over half of medical professionals at a training grade.
Yet the amount of men training to become nurses has plateaued for decades at between 8–11%.
Adult Nursing lecturer Kevin Hambridge explains his personal and professional experience of combating the stereotype

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/subjects/psychology-and-social-sciences:
You can participate in lots of real psychological experiments during your studies.
The University is also home to some of the best computing, research and lab facilities which really enhance your experience as an undergraduate psychologist.
What I like most about the department is the knowledge and passion of both staff and students.
There is a willingness to engage, ask questions and guide others in developing key skills.
I would recommend doing a placement year, it introduces you to the practical side of psychology and gives you an insight into the working environment.
I have learnt so much in such little time, compared to reading and doing lectures.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/subjects/sociology-international-relations-politics:
“Studying sociology at Plymouth gives you a detailed understanding of how society functions...the social, economic, and political aspects in our everyday lives.
It provides you with a range of skills that are a necessity in many careers within contemporary society.” Conor Wood BSc (Hons) Sociology graduate Ranked 5th for sociology (Guardian University Guide 2019)
Conor Wood BSc (Hons) Sociology graduate
Ranked 5th for sociology (Guardian University Guide 2019)
BSc (Hons) Politics
BSc (Hons) Politics and International Relations
MA International Relations: Global Security and Development
Bridget Phillips: inspiring the next generation from her classroom
Bob Curtis: from Plymouth to Japan
Daniel Giblett: making experiences to shape a lifetime from the South West to Seoul
Sophie Challis: looking at life differently
April Watkins: from sociology to the care sector
Rebecca Hall: living a life beyond borders

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/apply:
Personal statement help, meeting entry requirements, advice for creative courses – find all the information you need to help you with your application
Study at a top 2 modern UK university (Times Higher Education, Young University Rankings 2024)
Search for a course
Writing a personal statement
Meeting entry requirements
Find the right student accommodation for you
Funding your study
Chat to current students
Medicine and dentistry applications
Interviews for arts, education and health courses
Information for international applicants
Contact our friendly Admissions team if you have any questions or queries about courses, your application or entry requirements.
+44(0)1752 585858
3rd floor Nancy Astor Building University of Plymouth Drake Circus Plymouth Devon PL4 8AA
www.facebook.com/PlymUniApply
Unibuddy

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/students-and-family/sustainability:
Contact our team at sustainability@plymouth.ac.uk .
Discover our many sustainability awards and accreditations
Sustainability is embedded not just in operations across the University but also in our course provision, education methods and research.
Study a course with sustainability at its core Learn about our sustainability-conscious study opportunities across a range of academic disciplines.
Sustainability education Discover how the Centre for Sustainable Futures works to embed sustainability across our faculties.
Sustainability research Our Sustainable Earth Institute is about advancing research, knowledge and innovation for a more sustainable Earth.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/integrated-masters:
8 Teaching is combined alongside the corresponding three year BSc route.
8 Register as a healthcare professional or psychologist upon successful completion.
8 High employment rates across the healthcare sector.
8 Expert professionally registered staff provide hands-on learning.
The MPsych programme gave me the time to develop my research skills further, I am now much more confident in these skills.
It has given me the skills needed to conduct individual and corporate research.
I enjoy being given the freedom and resources to pursue research I’m interested in.
I think the University offers some of the UK’s best courses with incredible lecturers, who do some really interesting research in their own fields, as well as being in an amazing location: close to Dartmoor and right by the sea.
Studying at the University helped me to develop my theoretical knowledge and helped me to implement this knowledge in a practical manner: which is what attracted employers to me.
8 Work towards professional accreditation.
8 Draw on our strong industry links and benefit from industry participation in course development, delivery and project sponsorship.
8 Benefit from world-class research from internationally renowned researchers.
8 Gain industry experience with placement opportunities.
8 Study in world-class facilities.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-marine-biology-and-oceanography:
School of Biological and Marine Sciences
3 years
Full-time
Around 70% of our planet is ocean with an average depth of 3,000m.
To understand the biology of this vast area, we must also understand the oceans themselves.
Marine biology and oceanography covers topics such as how animals can thrive in extreme environments such as the deep sea, how currents influence animal migrations, and how climate impacts marine life.
Teaching uses both small and large research vessels, providing you with an unrivalled experience of open ocean marine biology.
BIOL131 Cells: The Building Blocks of Life 20 credits
The cell is the basic building block of life.
This module introduces you to the structure of prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells and the cell biology that allow different cells to do different things including some highly specialised cells of multicellular organisms.
The module will then focus on the molecular basis that underlies cell function introducing you to the metabolic pathways and molecules that allow cells to work.
50% Coursework
50% Examinations
MBIO120 Introduction to Marine Biology 20 credits
This module will introduce students to marine biology covering aspects such as marine ecosystems, organisms and oceanography.
This will also start to develop a range of core skills and confidence in effective written communication, information technology (including use of peer-reviewed literature), and data handling skills.
It will also start to develop field and id skills and taxonomy skills and safe fieldwork practices.
100% Coursework
MBIO123 Marine Biology Field Course 20 credits
This module develops core skills in effective oral and written communication and provides a toolbox of essential material on numeracy and statistics to address quantitative questions in Marine Biology.
During an intensive field course, you will immerse yourself in practical aspects of marine biology, asking questions based on observations and then formulating appropriate hypotheses that can then be tested.
75% Coursework
25% Tests
MBIO161 Evolution and Behaviour 20 credits
Covers the principles underpinning evolution with a special focus on animal behaviour as adaptive traits.
Module covers concepts of the genetic basis of inheritance, population genetics, selection, adaptation, function, fitness and speciation.
We will use key examples and practical classes to illustrate key ideas and consider the development of some of the ideas in a historical context.
50% Tests
MBIO162 Biodiversity 20 credits
This module introduces the scientific study of biodiversity.
Starting with the question what is biodiversity?
students go on to explore where it is, how it is distributed across the Earth, and how we value it.
This leads to a discussion of how biodiversity is threatened and how we conserve it.
Embedded in this big picture is an introduction to the biology of some key taxa that characterise biodiversity.
50% Practicals
OS102 Physical and Chemical Processes of the Ocean 20 credits
This module provides an introduction to the main physical and chemical processes occurring in the worlds oceans and a foundation in key aspects of underpinning science and mathematics.
MBIO227 Biological Oceanography Field Course 20 credits
A residential field course providing knowledge of sampling offshore marine systems from research vessels.
A range of ecosystems will be investigated primarily with respect to their biological component but emphasis will also be placed upon understanding the biological significance of major physico-chemical parameters in the study area.
60% Coursework
40% Tests
MBIO228 Biology of Marine Organisms 20 credits
This module will provide an introduction to fundamental aspects of the biology of marine organisms.
Particular attention is paid to the diversity of form and function within key groups of marine chloroxygenic organisms and animals and how this allows them to inhabit different marine environments.
OS201 Global Ocean Processes 20 credits
This module explores the large-scale distribution and characteristics of water masses and biogeochemical properties in the oceans.
Mechanisms that drive the global circulation in a changing climate are investigated alongside their role in the transport of chemical constituents through the open oceans and shelf seas.
The life cycles and distribution of marine organisms and the structuring of marine foodwebs are explored.
MBIO229 Methods in Marine Biology, Coastal Ecology and Oceanography 20 credits
Provides the core skills and techniques to equip students to perform field studies in Marine Biology, Coastal Ecology and Oceanography.
Introduces appropriate methodologies for the collection, handling and analysis of data; the scientific principles underlying experimental design and the effective communication of scientific information.
MBIO217 Ecology of Shallow Water Marine Habitats 20 credits
Shallow water marine habitats represent some of the most diverse and productive habitats on earth.
This module provides an overview of the key factors influencing their ecology and will also consider the biology of the organisms therein, the scientific study of shallow water habitats and the analysis, evaluation and communication of marine ecological data.
60% Examinations
40% Coursework
MBIO221 Marine Molecular Biology 20 credits
The application of molecular techniques in marine biology has revolutionised our understanding of marine life, from individuals to ecosystems.
This module provides a foundation in the concepts and techniques underlying these developments.
OS204 Waves, Tides and Coastal Dynamics 20 credits
This module provides an introduction to the characteristics of ocean waves and focusses on how waves and tides interact with the coast and drive the coastal processes that result in shoreline erosion and accretion.
OS207 Scientific Diving 20 credits
This module allows suitably qualified students (HSE SCUBA or equivalent) to develop industry and research-relevant skills in measurement and monitoring in the underwater environment using professional SCUBA and related techniques.
These will then be applied in a multi-disciplinary context to the planning, execution, analysis and reporting of a field-based sampling activity.
OS209 Marine Remote Sensing 20 credits
This module introduces the theory underlying remote sensing using introductory lectures and laboratory practicals.
An opportunity to apply the theory in the remote sensing context is provided by boat and computing work.
Remote sensing imagery is introduced early in the module and students work on image enhancement, analysis and interpretation in the latter part of the course, supported by theory lectures and/or workshops.
BPIE336 Marine Biology related Placement 0 credits
A 48-week period of professional training spent as the third year of a sandwich programme undertaking an approved placement with a suitable company.
This provides an opportunity for the student to gain relevant industrial experience to consolidate the first two stages of study and to prepare for the final stage and employment after graduation.
MBIO341 Biological Oceanography 20 credits
This module provides a study of the key physical, ecological and organismal processes in the marine environment and introduces a range of biological studies in applied marine science.
40% Practicals
PROJ302 SoBMS Project 40 credits
This module provides an opportunity to undertake a research project on an individually developed topic and experience the entire process of scholarly research: from problem formulation, through the design and execution of an investigation, analysis of results and presentation of outcomes.
It will develop skills in independent working and self-awareness in relation to personal, professional and academic development.
25% Practicals
BIOL311 Ecotoxicology 20 credits
This module provides a detailed analysis of the concepts and principles of ecotoxicology, with an emphasis on evaluation of ecotoxicological techniques and methods for assessment of impacts of pollutants on the aquatic environment.
MBIO327 Marine Ecology 20 credits
This module considers the processes and mechanisms that affect the development and structure of marine communities through a discussion of the current evidence base, recent concepts and theories relating to multiple life histories stages of marine species from around the globe and experimental testing of behavioural processes.
This will be followed by an investigation of the nature and significance of key processes in structuring marine communities.
MBIO339 Ecology and Conservation of Marine Vertebrates 20 credits
Marine vertebrates are vulnerable to depletion through over fishing, industrial development, pollution and habitat degradation.
This module will examine the ecology of these animals in their natural environments and explore methods for surveying, monitoring and managing populations and species.
There is a strong emphasis on current research and hot topics with numerous case studies used throughout the module.
40% Examinations
MBIO363 Fish and Fisheries 20 credits
This module explores the biology of fishes and its application to the science of fisheries management.
There is a focus on seminal works and recent advances in the primary literature.
OS303 Ocean Dynamics 20 credits
The module provides an introduction to dynamical oceanography with emphasis on the large- and meso-scale circulation in the world ocean and shelf seas.
Topics include geostrophic and wind driven currents, eddies, formation of fronts, upwelling, interactions between water masses, exchanges between shelf and deep seas.
Emphasis is placed on quantitative understanding of physical processes and the analysis of field data.
OS304 Marine Ecosystem Conservation 20 credits
From tropical mangroves to temperate pelagic waters, marine ecosystems around the world face a variety of threats due to human activities and resource pressure.
This module will examine threats to a range of marine and coastal ecosystems and explore methods for management and conservation.
We will explore methods for surveying and monitoring marine ecosystems and learn about the ecological consequences of human impacts.
OS309 Marine Pollution and Environmental Change 20 credits
This module will consider the sources, transport, sinks and impacts of a wide range of pollutant types (including nutrients, trace elements, sediments, anthropogenic pollutants and carbon dioxide).
Practical field techniques will be introduced and used to assess the environmental condition of estuarine waters.
Emphasis will be placed on critical evaluating the links between human activities and marine water quality.
UCAS tariff
120
Contextual offers: Typically, the contextual offer for this course is 8 points below the advertised tariff .
A contextual offer is an offer to study at university that takes into account individual circumstances that are beyond your control, and that can potentially impact your learning and your exam results, or your confidence in applying to university.
Check your eligibility for a contextual offer
International progression routes
The University of Plymouth International College (UPIC) offers foundation, first-year and pre-masters programmes that lead to University of Plymouth degrees.
Courses are specially designed for EU and international students who are missing the grades for direct entry to the University, and include full duration visa sponsorship.
You can start in January, May or September, benefitting from small class sizes, top-quality tuition and 24/7 student support.
Foundation in Biological/Biomedical Sciences and Psychology Find out more at plymouth.ac.uk/upic or contact our team at info@upic.plymouth.ac.uk
Marine Station
Marine biology facilities
Marine biology research and collaboration
We can provide you with the skills to be a marine environmental biologist with a thorough understanding of how physical and chemical processes influence marine life, or an oceanographer with a strong biological background.
"Plymouth is well known for its excellence within the field of marine sciences and it has other advantages too!" Overseas field trips influenced Naomi’s future career choice.
As part of her placement year, Sydney went to South Africa with Sharklife Conservation and took part in various research projects to encourage the public to engage with shark conservation.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/careers-and-employment/degrees:
Explore our subject-specific pages to get insight, ideas and inspiration about future possible roles and sectors related to your degree subject
Understanding where your degree subject could take you is an important first step in your career planning.
Due to the transferable nature of the skills you gain from your studies, you may discover that there is a much wider range of options open to you than you may first appreciate.
Large numbers of professional-level vacancies (currently around 70%) are open to graduates of any degree discipline.
Check out the links below for a breakdown by subject into potential employers, sector insights, sector networks and professional bodies and ways you can enhance your time at University to prepare for your career.
We have also provided relevant links to explore wider sectors and roles which you may not have considered.
Placements and work experience
Looking for graduate jobs
CVs, applications, interviews and assessment centres
careers@plymouth.ac.uk
+44 1752 587456
Careers Service, Student Hub, Charles Seale-Hayne Library
Monday to Thursday: 08:30–17:00, Friday: 09:30–16:30
AccessAble accessibility guide

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/services/careers/find-work-experience:
What is a placement?
Also referred to as a placement-year, sandwich-year, work-placement or year in industry.
For many subject areas a placement is an integrated part of your degree, entirely optional, but strongly encouraged.
Taking place after your second year of study, you’ll work for a company/organisation for six to twelve months (depending on your degree).
Once complete you return for your final year of study, with a whole year of work experience to add to your CV.
Why do a Placement?
In addition to providing you with an opportunity to apply your subject knowledge and technical skills in a professional environment, a placement also provides an invaluable insight into organisational communication, culture, professional workplace behaviours, applied skills and working relationships.
Placement students also feedback how incredibly valuable the experience has been in increasing self-confidence and encouraging reflective practice, while also developing many ‘missing skills’ that employers look for in graduates.
Benefits of a placement
Contact your placements team Our team are here to support you throughout your placement.
You can contact us on placements@plymouth.ac.uk or +44 1752 586007 .
You can also book an appointment via myCareer .
Volunteering with the SU Volunteering is a fun and flexible way to gain valuable experience, to develop your skillset whilst making a positive impact and giving back to the community.
It also says a lot about you as an individual and can be an interesting talking point when in future job interviews.
The University of Plymouth SU collaborates with charities and organisations so that you can be more than just your degree and develop so much more.
For information visit https://www.upsu.com/volunteer/
Work Based Learning (WBL) WBL is like mini placement where you gain work experience over one module during your normal studies, with some credit attached.
Different courses have work-based learning modules in different years, so ask your lecturer or personal tutor if this is an option that is available to you.
Remember, if WBL learning is not part of your degree then speak with the Careers Service about an internship or placement.
@ Airbus
@ Aston Martin Lagonda
@ Babcock International
@ BBC
@ Brixham Laboratory
@ Celebrity Cruises
@ Dartmoor Zoo
@ Devon Partnership NHS Trust
@ EDF
@ GSK
@ IBM
@ Institute of Marine Research
@ Intel
@ Johnson & Johnson
@ Keir Group
@ Land Registry
@ Met Office
@ Network Rail
@ Plymouth City Council
@ Plymouth Science Park
@ PWC
@ Samsung
@ Santander
@ South West Water
@ Sponge UK
@ The Goring Hotel
@ UK Hydrographic Office
@ University Hospitals Plymouth NHS Trust
@ Warner Bros
@ and many more.
Stand out to employers Hear from recent graduates and current employers on how to stand out as a candidate when looking for a placement or graduate role.
"Go the extra mile.
Look for placements even if it’s voluntary or just for a few weeks, it will benefit you in the long term.
The more things you can put on your CV the more you stand out." "Soft skills are the primary differentiating factor between one candidate and another.
The ability to articulate clearly and confidently in an interview is important."
Hear from recent graduates and current employers on how to stand out as a candidate when looking for a placement or graduate role.
Monday to Thursday from 8:30–17:00 Friday 09:30–16:30
uniplymcareers

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/student-life/support:
Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Business
Faculty of Health
Faculty of Science and Engineering
Helping you develop your understanding, knowledge and experience.
Library and Learning Services
Student Learning services
Careers Service
Find out more about the services and support we provide to our students from money and mental health to accommodation.
Student Hub
Supporting students with the cost of living

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/open-days/postgraduate-open-evening:
Rolle Plaza Marquee
University of Plymouth

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/prospectus:
Did you know the University of Plymouth is among the world's top five green universities ?
With this in mind, we're offering you our prospectus as a PDF download.
However, if you'd prefer a paper copy, choose the prospectus you want below, tick the box to add your address, and we'll send you a copy in the post.
We would like to send you exciting news about courses and student life at the University of Plymouth.
The University of Plymouth will contact you for the purpose outlined on this form and to respond to your enquiry.
Your details will be kept, stored, and used in line with our admissions privacy policy .
We will not share your data outside the University of Plymouth, apart from with those that help us to provide this service.
If you choose to receive further information about the University, we may contact you via email (which also includes social, digital media and other electronic channels).
Where you have provided us with a phone number, we may also contact you occasionally via SMS message or by telephone.
We may also send you post from time to time.
You will have the right to change your mind and withdraw consent at any time for all communications, or select your preferences for how we get in touch with you.
Your online preference centre is linked to at the bottom of every email and our contact details can be found in our privacy policy.
We will send you an email to confirm submission of this form, if you don’t receive this email please check your spam folders and settings to ensure that your email provider isn't blocking emails from us.
If you tick no, we will still contact you about your originally enquiry, order or booking.
By submitting this data, you agree to our admissions privacy policy .

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/research-degrees/doctoral-college:
Learn more about starting your research degree from procedures, milestones and training to library and international information.
Explore the wide range of information and resources we have to help you with your research degree.
The Research Degrees Handbook is available as an e-book for postgraduate research degree students and the staff who support them (including supervisors).
Common questions asked when studying for a postgraduate research degree with the University of Plymouth.
Explore the wide range of skills courses we provide for research students and staff at the University.
The University of Plymouth invites its qualifying doctoral candidates to apply to become an Alumni Research Fellow.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/services/impairments-health-conditions-and-disability:
We aim to create an inclusive educational environment
We aim to provide support when required to the best of our ability
We aim to remove or mitigate barriers that may cause an unfair disadvantage
Student Hub, Charles Seale-Hayne Library, University of Plymouth, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA
Our opening times: Monday to Thursday 8:30–17:00, Friday 9:30–16:30
plymunisupport
Charles Seale-Hayne Library access guide on AccessAble

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/how-to-apply/english-language-requirements:
We will accept Reifeprufung/Matura – English of Grades 1–2.
We will accept Bevis for Studentereksamen (STX) – English of Grades 12–7.
We will accept Bevis for Hojere Forberedelseseksamen (HF) – English of Grades 12–7.
We will accept Bevis for Hojere Handelseksamen (HHX) – English of Grades 12–7.
We will accept Cambridge English: C1 Advanced if taken instead of the English state exam.
We will accept GCSE English language grade C or A level English language grade C (awarded by UK examining bodies).
Gibraltar is a British Overseas Territory; residents may still be subject to immigration control in the UK if they do not hold a British citizen passport.
We will accept Zeugnis der Allgemeinen Hochschulreife/Abitur – English of Grades 15–10, provided it has been taken as a Hauptfach/Leistungskurs/Kurs mit erhohtem Anforderungsniveau.
We will accept a Leaving Certificate – English of Grades O1–O4 or H1–H7 2017 and later or Ordinary Level A1–C4 or Higher Level A1-D3 up to and including 2016.
There is no UKVI requirement as Irish nationals do not need a visa to live or study in the UK after Brexit, but University English language requirements may still apply, i.e., at undergraduate entry level.
We will accept Secondary Education Certificate – English of Grades 1–5.
We will accept Matriculation Certificate Examination (MATSEC) – English of Grades A–E at both Intermediate and Advanced levels.
We will accept Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO) – English of Grades 10–8.
We will accept Diploma de Bacalaureat – English with 2 scores at B2 and 3 scores at B1.
Slutbetyg fran Grundskolan is not accepted.
We will accept Slutbetyg fran Gymnasieskola (studentexamen) – English of Grades A–C/MVG-VG/20–15 when studied as an English C subject.
We will accept Studentsprof – English of Grades 10–9.
We will accept Vitnemal fra den videregaende skole – English of Grades 6–4 (this qualification was phased out in the 1990s and replaced with the below).
We will accept Vitnemal for videregaende opplaering – English of Grades 6–4.
Australia
Cameroon
Canada
Caribbean (CSEC)
Hong Kong
India
Kenya (KCSE)
Malawi
Malaysia SPM
New Zealand (NCEA)
Singapore
South Africa
Tanzania
USA
West Africa (WAEC/NECO)
Zimbabwe

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/university-of-plymouth-international-college:
info@upic.plymouth.ac.uk
+44 1752 411114
University of Plymouth International College, 19 Portland Villas, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA
youpickUPIC

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/masters-application-advice:
Find out specific information for masters applications .
Visit the Doctoral College website for more information on research areas and applying for a postgraduate research course.
I secured a part-time weekend job that fitted alongside my academic commitments.
It allowed me to keep weekdays free for lectures, coursework, and self-study.
This provided me with financial stability whilst still opening doors for work experiences relevant to my field of study.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/funding/postgraduate-taught:
At Plymouth, there are a small number of scholarships available to postgraduate students
If you’re experiencing financial hardship due to extra costs, unexpected health issues or other factors, there may be bursaries and support funds that can help you.
The cost of living in the UK has risen faster than household income.
We provide advice and guidance and have a range of services, facilities and offers to help students with rising everyday costs.
I applied for a loan and the Santander business bursary, which helped me create the small studio where I work now.
There are other ways to apply for funding – the Student Hub is a great place to get advice.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/services/careers/postgraduate-students:
Support for mature students
Monday to Thursday from 08:30–17:00 Friday 09:30–16:30
@UniPlymCareers

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/why-go-further:
Postgraduate study can create rewarding experiences and kick-start a successful career.
Could taking the leap and committing to postgraduate-level study help you achieve your ambitions?
Masters degrees in the UK are highly regarded by employers and will allow you to stand out in an increasingly competitive job market.
Holding a masters-level qualification can evidence specialist knowledge and a strong determination to learn.
The Department for Education reports that working-age postgraduates had an average salary of £36,100 in 2022, five years after graduation, compared with £29,900 for working-age undergraduates (LEO Graduate and Postgraduate Outcomes).
Increasing your specialist knowledge or consolidating your existing knowledge is a great way to improve your career opportunities.
Work alongside and network with experts in your field as your knowledge grows.
A masters degree can give you a greater understanding of valued workplace skills and set you apart when applying for jobs.
Strike a healthy balance between postgraduate study, work and personal life.
We are passionate about encouraging a culture of balance so many of our postgraduate programmes have part-time study opportunities, and some have a January start option.
Postgraduate study is the perfect way for you to leap into a career change.
Our conversion programmes give you the chance to branch away from the subject you studied at undergraduate level or the professional career you have grown tired of.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/student-life/postgraduate-student-life:
Discover how our students balance their studies with other elements of their life.
Find out how our students found the jump up from undergraduate to postgraduate study.
Explore the many ways our Student Hub can support you as a postgraduate student.
Plymouth is a beautiful place; it has history and culture… plus the local food is pretty good too.
Another thing I should shout out about Plymouth is how unusual it can be – there are a hodgepodge of tastes, people and architecture which makes the city wonderful!
There is no better way to determine if Plymouth is the right place for you.
Speak to staff about the course and ask students your questions about their experiences.
The University offers support and can help you find ways to make your money go further as a postgraduate student.
Find out about your students' union.
Did you know you have the same access to their support, sports and societies as undergraduate students?

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/sustainability:
Ranked 3rd in the UK for SDG 3: Good health and wellbeing
Ranked 7th in the UK for SDG 13: Climate action
Ranked 6th in the UK for SDG 14: Life below water
Ranked 6th in the world for SDG 12: Responsible consumption and production
Ranked 4th in the UK for SDG 7: Affordable and clean energy

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/student-life/chat-to-students:
; Do you have any tips for budgeting your student loan?
; What is it like living in halls?
; How did you meet your friends?
; What is there to do in Plymouth?
; Is it easy to get a part time job?
; Would you recommend your course?
; What are the support services like?
; Is there help to plan your career after uni?
; Could you give me some tips on choosing between your offers?
{ “It’s super helpful to have someone tell me about the course.
I will definitely ask more later!”
{ “It’s great to hear how much support there is.”
{ “I really appreciate the advice – it's super insightful.”

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/research-degrees/research-areas:
Under each area, we offer a flavour of potential topics for your own research project.
While this is generally where our world-leading research expertise lies, it is by no means a complete list.
You are encouraged to contact potential supervisors in your proposed area of study at the earliest stage in your application process.
If you are unsure who to contact, please email one of our advisers at doctoralcollege@plymouth.ac.uk .
We are happy to discuss all of the potential research opportunities open to you.
We supervise postgraduate research in all of the 30 areas listed.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/research-degrees/apply:
Student regulations, policies and procedures
Find support through our disability services
research.degree.admissions@plymouth.ac.uk
+44 1752 587640
4th Floor Nancy Astor Building,
Drake Circus, 
Plymouth, 
Devon, 
PL4 8AA
9:00–16:30 Monday to Thursday, and 9:00–16:00 on Fridays.
Closed on bank holidays.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/welcome/induction/online-enrolment:
Essential action for new and returning students before a new year of study

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/research-degrees/doctoral-training-partnerships:
Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTP) and Centres for Doctoral Training (CDT) are funded by UK Research Councils and provide bespoke training for postgraduate researchers.
Through working in partnership with other organisations and institutions, the University of Plymouth provides funding and training opportunities to our students.
You can find out more about each of our DTPs below.
Find out more about each of our DTPs

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/cpd/health:
A 60-hour course for Devon and Cornwall-based individuals looking to drive sustainable business practices within their organisation

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/services/accommodation/halls:
H No deposit required
H Bills and contents insurance included*
H Regular halls events and activities

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/student-life/cost-of-living:
+44 0175 258779
Advisers are available Monday to Thursday 8:30–17:00, Friday 9:30–16:30

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/student-life/explore-dartmoor:
I have never before, in my long and eclectic career, been gifted with such an abundance of natural beauty as I experienced filming War Horse on Dartmoor.
Dartmoor can provide a feeling of remoteness without you having to travel for miles into the depths of Wales or the Scottish Highlands.
Although often described as ‘bleak’, it has many changing colours and hardy fauna and flora that flourish there.
For me, Dartmoor is special because of its beauty and the fact that it appears virtually untouched by buildings and people.
There is a strong connection to history and it’s a nice space to get away from people.
Under the microscope: Dartmoor

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/student-life/plymouth-bike-rides:
Whether it’s as a jumping-off point to explore hidden trails or simply to ride along, this ten-mile traffic-free cycle path is popular with roadies and mountain bikers.
It follows the path of an old rail track, climbing through woodland to Dartmoor.
Drake’s Trail offers 21 miles of largely off-road tarmac linking Plymouth with the nearby town of Tavistock.
It shares ground with the Plymbridge trail, picking up where it ends in Clearbrook and continuing all the way to Tavistock.
Cann Woods is a hotspot for mountain bikers and is accessible from the city via the Plymbridge Woods cycle path.
It offers challenging trails for riders of all skill levels.
Few destinations fit the bill better than Dartmoor National Park.
It’s not for the faint-hearted – if you’re not cycling uphill, you’re cycling down – but your effort is rewarded with super views.
Plymouth is a great place to get around by bike.
If you are new to cycling or a regular cyclist, you'll find that cycling gives you that extra freedom to move around the city.
For less confident cyclists free cycle training is available in the city.
Exploring the city by bike will enable you to discover the Barbican, Hoe and Royal William Yard with many opportunities to stop for well deserved refreshments!
Cycling information from Plymouth City Council
Cycling and mountain biking information from Visit Plymouth
Hire an e-bike with Beryl

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/open-days/explore-plymouth:
The vibrant waterfront and town centre are home to a wide range of shops, bars, cafes and restaurants, while other attractions include theatres, museums, an aquarium and lido.
Our campus is based right in the heart of the city, which means you’re never too far away from the action and there is a real sense of community.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-environmental-management-and-sustainability:
School of Geography, Earth and Environmental Sciences
This degree is strongly interdisciplinary and practical, providing you with the knowledge and skills to help build and manage solutions to environmental challenges on land and in our oceans.
It draws on a range of disciplines, from environmental science to geography and marine.
Our team are leaders in their fields including climate change, pollution, biodiversity, conservation and sustainability and offer excellent links with environmental consultancies, industry, national and local government.
@ 95% of BSc (Hons) Environmental Management and Sustainability students agreed staff are good at explaining things (NSS, 2024)
GEES1301 Environment and Society 20 credits
Discover how people, organisations, and communities drive environmental management and sustainability in this engaging module.
Through local case studies, explore key concepts like environmental narratives, consumption, behaviour, and leadership for change.
See how action happens at every scale, from global to local, and how today's choices shape the future.
Gain the knowledge to make a real impact on our planet.
GEES1302 Soils, Water, Climate 20 credits
Join us on a journey to discover Earth’s essential natural resources, such as minerals, soils and water.
Through engaging laboratory experiments and insightful data analysis, you will explore geochemical cycles and processes to gain a deep understanding of the linkages between Earth systems and our changing climate.
70% Remotely delivered assessments
30% Tests
GEES1303 Our Ecological Planet: Biodiversity and Ecological Change 20 credits
Explore Earth's ecosystems in this hands-on, interdisciplinary module!
Dive into ecology, biodiversity, and conservation through fieldwork and case studies.
Learn taxa identification, habitat dynamics, and key ecological processes.
Build real-world skills to tackle global challenges and kickstart your career in environmental science and management.
70% Coursework
GEES1305 The Environmental Manager's Toolbox 20 credits
Discover the essential tools, strategies and concepts you’ll need to tackle the biggest environmental challenges.
Learn from industry experts and explore how our modern economy drives these challenges.
Study how laws, governance, corporate responsibility, and sustainable practices are being used in imaginative ways to protect our planet.
This module will equip you with the knowledge and skills to be a future-fit leader.
GEES1106 Our Digital Planet 20 credits
Explore the biggest challenges facing our planet today and discover how data analysis and visualisation can drive real-world solutions.
You will be introduced to data analysis, GIS, and cartographic techniques through engaging, hands-on examples.
You will develop essential skills while tackling pressing issues.
You will receive personalised support from your tutor to help you excel at university-level study.
GEES1105 Sustainable Futures 20 credits
Explore critical global sustainability challenges and solutions at local, national and international scales.
Learn about core sustainability principles and their application to energy, biodiversity, land management, marine, travel, and personal behaviour.
Sustainability sector experts share their experience, and students develop knowledge and teamwork skills through a tutor-supported group research project.
GEES2000 Placement Preparation 0 credits
This module explores the role of placements, work experience and volunteering for enhancing employability whilst at university and as a future graduate.
It considers placement options (types, durations) and supports students in developing applications and preparing for interviews.
100% Assessments
GEES2301 Environmental Field and Research Skills 20 credits
Unlock the skills you need to tackle real-world environmental challenges!
This hands-on module trains you in fieldwork, data collection and analysis methods.
Design investigations, gather environmental data and interpret results using GIS and statistical tools.
With a strong focus on teamwork, problem-solving and professional reporting you’ll be ready to take on independent research and future environmental careers!
GEES2302 Environmental Expedition 20 credits
Learn environmental research techniques in unique habitats.
Students get ‘stuck in’ by designing and carrying-out their own research in domestic and international field locations.
By working with local stakeholders and getting-to-grips with scientific technology, you can help respond to some of the most critical environmental challenges.
GEES2303 Environmental Management and Sustainability 20 credits
Expand your knowledge and critical thinking skills in key areas of environmental science and management, using insights from economics and environmental governance to explore solutions to real life problems affecting life supporting resources such as water, air, energy or food.
GEES2304 Environmental Issues and Communication 20 credits
Science isn’t finished until it’s communicated.
Learn about some of the crucial challenges we face in communicating scientific data and ideas to create change in society.
You will not just discover how to communicate to different groups - including policymakers, children, media organisations and science deniers - but you will also produce innovative multimedia communication pieces too.
OS205 Managing Human Impacts in the Marine Environment 20 credits
This module will introduce how human activities (such as fisheries, energy supply and mineral extraction) can impact the marine environment, including through pollution and biodiversity loss.
The concepts of marine management and conservation will be introduced and methods of preventing and managing anthropogenic impacts will be introduced and evaluated and their role in marine conservation discussed.
GEES2101 Nature, Country and Society 20 credits
What does nature really mean - and who gets to decide?
This thought-provoking module invites you to explore how different societies understand and interact with the natural world.
From global case studies to everyday experiences, you’ll uncover how ideas of 'nature' and 'the rural' are shaped by history, politics, and identity - and why these ideas matter in today’s world.
GEES2108 Geographical Information Systems 20 credits
Dive into the exciting world of GIS with this hands-on module.
You'll master the theory, methods, and spatial literacy needed to analyse real-world geographic data.
Through interactive lectures and practical sessions, you'll explore geospatial data handling and cutting-edge spatial analysis and visualisation techniques.
Develop valuable skills through project work, gaining the experience to tackle real-world challenges.
GEES2306 Natural Ecosystems and Their Conservation 20 credits
UK nature conservation is evolving, embracing cutting-edge ideas like ecosystem services, rewilding and nature-based solutions.
You’ll study restoration management best practice, such as beaver reintroductions and temperate rainforest restoration.
Get hands on experience of marine animal and plant identification and study animal adaptation to intertidal environments, gaining skills to make an impact in conservation.
50% Remotely delivered assessments
GEES3000 Placement 0 credits
This module is a placement position, where a student undertakes a programme of work within a host company or organisation.
The placement occurs within a yearlong period, meeting minimum duration requirements.
Students experience applying their degree, experience professional practice, develop enhanced subject-related knowledge and skills, and undergo personal-professional development.
GEES3307 The Environmental Professional 20 credits
Develop the skills and knowledge essential for a career in the environmental sector.
Engage with real-world challenges, work on industry-relevant projects, and learn from expert guest speakers.
Build problem-solving, teamwork, and leadership skills while gaining hands-on experience in impact assessments, risk analysis, project pitching and stakeholder engagement.
Maximise your potential for professional success.
GEES3308 Global Environmental Solutions 20 credits
Explore interdisciplinary approaches to addressing contemporary global environmental challenges and enhance your skills in critically evaluating environmental policies and political frameworks affecting how environmental problems are managed.
Apply environmental economics and sustainability principles to selected environmental issues and examine how research data informs complex environmental decision-making.
OS307 Marine Conservation Policy and Planning 20 credits
This module explores issues surrounding the maintenance of a healthy marine environment.
It will develop an understanding of marine governance, including policy frameworks and agencies responsible for implementing marine conservation strategy.
Topics include the range of measures and approaches for successful marine conservation and the importance of taking holistic approaches to management, including policy and planning
GEES3001 Work Based Learning in Geography and Sustainability 20 credits
Industry experience is a key quality employers look for in university graduates.
This module provides opportunities for students to develop transferrable employability skills through a short programme of graduate-level work experience in an organisation of their choice.
Past students have used this module to test academic ideas in the workplace; learn new technical and employability skills; and trial future career paths.
30% Practicals
GEES3002 Frontiers in Fieldwork: Unlocking Multidisciplinary Potential 20 credits
Embark on exploration of critical, real-world challenges in an exciting field context.
Collaborate in multidisciplinary teams to tackle a core issue through a research project of your own creation.
Sharpen your existing expertise and develop important transdisciplinary skills that prepare you to face career challenges beyond university with confidence and innovation.
GEES3104 Environmental Politics and Governance 20 credits
Deepen your understanding of the politics of the Earth and how science, ethics, interests and power shape political debates and decision-making on how to address major environmental problems.
Apply your knowledge and critical-thinking skills to the politics of climate change, biodiversity protection, chemical pollution, waste, protected areas, and the governance of the world’s largest wilderness, Antarctica.
GEES3106 Long-term Environmental Change 20 credits
Discover how lessons from the past can help tackle today’s biggest environmental and societal challenges.
Through workshops and lectures, you’ll explore 'grand environmental challenges,' placing current issues in a long-term context - spanning decades to millennia.
You’ll also reflect on the power of long-term thinking in shaping sustainability and environmental management for the future.
GEES3107 Contemporary Arctic and Alpine Challenges 20 credits
Investigate the challenges facing some of the Earth’s most climatically extreme landscapes and their societies.
Explore rapid landscape evolution, climate-driven geohazards, and sustainable solutions for high latitude and altitude environments.
Build practical skills to measure environmental change, quantify risks, and create mitigation strategies that address these challenges and our ability to withstand them.
GEES3109 Big Data & Spatial Analytics 20 credits
Explore the power of spatial analysis in this practical module.
You’ll develop hands-on skills in data processing, management, and programming while diving into the world of big data.
Learn to acquire, process, analyse, and visualise datasets through real-world examples from the natural and social sciences.
Gain essential expertise and confidence, supported by data, to unlock new insights for societal challenges.
GEES3204 Environmental and Resource Geoscience 20 credits
Sharpen your skills ready for industry, tackling some of the most urgent environmental issues facing the world today, from pervasive mining pollution in post-industrial catchments to the role of the subsurface in decarbonisation.
You will engage in hands-on workshops, solving problems associated with past industry, as well as getting to grips with state-of-the-art software and real-world datasets.
GEES3206 Environmental Change Through Earth History 20 credits
The Earth’s environments are changing fast.
Learn how studying past environmental change helps us understand the impacts of current and future human induced environmental change.
Using advanced techniques in geochemistry and palaeontology, you’ll explore past events to predict future impacts, equipping you with the skills to tackle the environmental challenges of tomorrow.
GEES3301 Systems Thinking and Change Leadership in Sustainability 20 credits
Develop and apply holistic or systems thinking skills to tackle complex real-life environmental management and sustainability issues.
Learn new transferable skills such as systems dynamics in Vensim to prepare you for your independent systems thinking project and the workplace.
Discover, how a systems approach can help individuals and groups engage with global challenges and identify change leadership opportunities.
GEES3302 Systems Thinking and Change Leadership in Sustainability with English Language Support 20 credits
Learn new transferable skills such as systems dynamics in Vensim and discover how a systems approach can help identify change leadership opportunities.
English language support will help you apply technical language in a research context and adapt to a different culture/ethos of research.
GEES3303 Systems Thinking for Environmental Solutions 20 credits
Apply the concepts and methods of systems thinking in an independent research project on an environmental management and sustainability topic of your choice.
You’ll define the problem, develop and execute investigative strategies, critically evaluate methods, and communicate findings to professional standards.
This module builds analytical skills, research competence, and the ability to drive positive change.
GEES3304 Systems Thinking for Environmental Solutions with English Language Support 20 credits
You define problems, develop and execute investigative strategies, critically evaluate methods, and communicate findings to professional standards.
This module builds analytical skills including language skill, research competence, and the ability to drive positive change.
GEES3309 Biological Conservation 20 credits
Are you passionate about conserving the Biosphere and understanding how we might restore it?
By engaging with real case studies from diverse environments on both land and water, temperate and tropical - you'll discover the key forces driving conservation and restoration efforts at global and local scales.
You'll explore how stakeholders, policies, and real-world practices must work together to protect our living planet.
GEES3310 Climate Change Action 20 credits
The time to act is now!
Never has there been a more relevant time to equip yourself for the drive to deliver climate action.
Here you will be immersed in the most up-to-date understanding of the science and policy, trained in climate risk analysis and shown how to be a valuable agent of climate change action in the professional workplace.
104
Foundation in Environmental Sciences Find out more at plymouth.ac.uk/upic or contact our team at info@upic.plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/forms/open-day/registration:
Please complete and submit this form to book your place at one of our undergraduate open days.
Your details will be kept, stored, and used in line with our enquirer privacy policy .
By submitting this data, you agree to our enquirer privacy policy .

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/services:
I reached out to the careers team from my earliest steps in my job search and they stayed with me to the end.
I used a lot of support services that helped me learn the balance between home and study life.
The staff members in services such as The Hub  are lovely, and the lecturers go above and beyond to help you succeed.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/services/accommodation/accommodation-guarantee:
For students applying to live in halls of residence in the 2025–2026 academic year

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/services/accommodation/payments:
2 min read
Find out how and when to pay for your accommodation
By appointment only / Phone lines open between 10:00 - 14:00, Monday - Friday
plymuniaccomm

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/services/accommodation/living-in-the-private-sector:
Although we do not make any official recommendations for privately owned halls of residence, these properties are part of our 'good practice' network

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/university-structure/service-areas/catering/prepaid-catered-halls:
& Monday 15 September 2025 – Friday 12 December 2025
& Monday 5 January 2026 – Friday 29 May 2026
@ A flexible prepaid way to eat
@ The ability to try new foods
@ An opportunity to meet new friends
@ Freedom to cook for yourself or eat out at weekends
@ Less time cooking, food shopping and washing up
Please read the terms and conditions for more information.
When making payment you will be asked to confirm that you have read and that you accept these terms and conditions.
catering@plymouth.ac.uk
+44 1752 588580
If you have a query or would like to give us any feedback on our services, please get in touch.
@PlymUniCatering
plymunicafes

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/services/accommodation/your-stay:
Find your halls handbooks, licence examples, insurance details and safety guides.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/services/library-services/help:
The Charles Seale-Hayne Library, University of Plymouth, Drake Circus, Plymouth PL4 8AA
24/7 term time, 08:00 – 20:00 vacation
Accessibility Information from AccessAble

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/university-structure/service-areas/it-services:
For an IT related issue, please contact our technical support team.
Students: libraryandITenquiries@plymouth.ac.uk or +44 1752 588588 Staff: ITselfservice.plymouth.ac.uk or +44 1752 588588
For information about studying, working and teaching from home, please visit our work at home pages (requires University login).
Alternatively, you may find our self-help pages useful.
What IT help and support is available for online teaching and homeworking?
The University’s Technology and Information Services team has a general FAQ which links to a range of support resources, information and guidance.
What software is available to students for studying from home?
Please visit our dedicated information page where you'll find links to free software licensed for students to download and use on their own devices to support remote learning.
libraryandITenquiries@plymouth.ac.uk
IT Service Desk open 08:00-17:00 Monday to Friday

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/services/library-services/research-support-services:
Get 1:1 Support
Access training
Depositing outputs to Pure
Request APC
Research Kaleidoscope (news)
openresearch@plymouth.ac.uk
Charles Seale-Hayne Library, University of Plymouth, Drake Circus, Plymouth, Devon PL4 8AA
@OpenResPlym

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/services/student-learning:
Offering a welcoming space where you can explore techniques and strategies to improve as a writer working with our trained student writing mentors
Get advice about your academic writing from an established professional writer
Regular study sessions for students run by students

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/services/library-services/study-support:
Term time 08:30–midnight on weekdays (09:30–midnight weekends and bank holidays).
Vacation 08:30–18:00 on weekdays (09:30–18:00 weekends and bank holidays)

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/services/digital-skills:
A developmental tool which students and staff can use to self-assess their digital capabilities and identify their strengths, whilst also offering opportunities to develop skills further to enhance their practice or learning.
Calling all students!
Please share your views on all things digital.
Help us to see how we can enhance or improve the digital services and experiences for all staff.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/teaching-and-learning/digital-education/student-digital-champions:
In addition to peer support, the Student Digital Champions also provide training and create resources to help students make the most of technology
Student led training sessions Explore the student led training sessions available.
These include the digital toolkit (learn about core technology), creating video and using RStudio
Student created video resources Find out more about the DLE, myCareer, LinkedIn Learning,Zoom, MentiMeter, ePad and more from this range of video resources
LinkedIn Learning playlists Student created LinkedIn Learning playlists on topics including the DLE, myCareer, wellbeing, screenwriting, Excel, social media marketing and more
Our champions represent a diverse range of disciplines in the University and provide us with an excellent insight into the student voice.
Explore the University digital skills website.
Find out more about technologies for productivity, teaching and learning, research and accessibility.
Discover more about online and in-person digital skills training available.
An individual and anonymous developmental tool for users to self-assess their digital skills, to identify their strengths, whilst also offering opportunities to develop skills.
Try it and get a personalised overview report and supporting resources.
The SDC role provides basic IT support as a peer-to-peer service for all students to access if they need support.
Being in this role has boosted my confidence, self-esteem, and importantly this has helped me to understand students' different needs.
Being an SDC has provided me with skills and knowledge to help others but also learn more myself.
This opportunity has helped me to further my IT and general knowledge which will see me further into the future.
Being an SDC has given me a platform on which to build myself and to share my experiences and knowledge.
It has increased my confidence in public speaking and in finding new ways to interact with people.
It has also aided me in further understanding the uniqueness of each individual and how tailoring our services to them can make all the difference!
It’s been a lot of fun, and the role has also given me opportunity to play my part in enhancing the student community’s digital literacy and assist in creating tools and resources to further assist the effort.
Overall, this role is one I would wholeheartedly recommend to anyone!
Having the opportunity to help other students build their confidence with the technologies available to them alongside my studies has been a really rewarding experience for me.
The flexibility of the role has enabled me to enjoy working whilst completing the final stage of my undergraduate degree, undertaking my initial postgraduate studies and now again whilst embarking upon my PhD.
In addition to the flexibility, the role is a great addition to your CV and provides an insight into how the University determines what technologies students need to reach their potential.
My experience with the SDC team has been great; the role is a brilliant opportunity to develop confidence and to help the student community; it’s amazing to be part of a team that contributes so actively to improving the student experience.
There are plenty of opportunities to tailor your work to your strengths, as well as opportunities to learn new technologies that improve your learning.
I have really loved helping people with technology as an SDC, and making a difference to the University on an individual and collective scale has been a really good experience.
Not only that, but the SDC team is wonderful to work with; I can’t recommend it enough!

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/services/pals:
Increase your understanding of what is expected of you as a University of Plymouth student
@ Support you to settle in quickly to university life
Connect with your course and other students
@ Develop and diversify your learning strategies, and study habits to meet the requirements of university study
Gain a deeper understanding of your course content and expectations
@ Provides you an informal, collaborative learning space to share and explore learning and ideas
Increase your academic performance

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/services/sum-up:
H numeracy
H algebra
H calculus
H fractions
H graphs
H hypothesis testing
H trigonometry
H numerical methods
H differential equations
H dynamics
H vectors
H summary statistics
H matrices
H and any other numeracy, maths or stats queries.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/students-and-family/arts-institute-public-programme:
September 2024 marks our 20th anniversary as one of the South West’s major providers of arts and culture.
We look forward to expanding our programme into ever-more impactful spaces, producing and hosting over 100 events each year for everyone’s learning and enjoyment.
We’re dedicated to showcasing our academics and their research to the wider world, while also hosting major thinkers and makers from outside the University.
We have a terrific line-up for 2024–25, and look forward to welcoming you to campus to experience and take part in our ongoing arts and cultural conversation.
Professor Anthony Caleshu Director of The Arts & Culture programme, University of Plymouth
The Levinsky Gallery presents lucent, an exhibition of international artworks curated by David Quinn, with an associated programme of tours, talks and films.
Musica Viva showcases the ‘music of home’ through Britten, Bach and Bartók, plus this season's performances from the University Choral Society and Orchestra, including relaxed performances for all ages to enjoy.
An eclectic programme of screenings and talks including our popular Celluloid Psychology series, a trio of Screen Queens presented in collaboration with the Women's Network and films selected to accompany this season's exhibition, lucent.
Includes our ‘Creative Talks’ series, featuring artists who work in a variety of disciplines, sharing their work, processes, influences, and their own experiences of professional practice, plus Cultural Talks and Research Seminars.
Contemporary performances live on stage at The House, our performing arts centre in the heart of campus.
Find out more about activities for families, support for schools keen to engage with arts and culture, and opportunities for University of Plymouth students and volunteers.
thebridge@plymouth.ac.uk
Roland Levinsky Building, University of Plymouth, Drake Circus, Plymouth, Devon PL4 8AA
The Levinsky Gallery, Tuesday–Friday 10:00–16:00, Saturday 12:00–16:00.
Closed Mondays, Sundays and Bank Holidays

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/fees/paying-your-fees:
If you are paying all or a portion of your tuition fee personally, University policy is that you pay in full upon enrolment, however we do make provision for students who are unable to pay the full amount at once.
Tuition fee fraud The Higher Education sector is seeing rising levels of fraud in relation to the payment of tuition fees.
Please do not pay your tuition fee through a ‘third party facilitator’, particularly if that facilitator approaches you direct and offers a discount.
A ‘third party facilitator’ could also be someone known to you, such as another student, or a former student at the same university.
You should only ever pay your fee direct to the University using our authorised payment methods.
Chinese students have been particularly targeted.
The City of London Police’s Dedicated Card and Payment Crime Unit (DCPCU) has issued an information document which provides further information.
It is available in English and Chinese .
Please stay alert and if you have any concerns please contact the Student Accounts team in the first instance – studentaccountsteam@plymouth.ac.uk
The Higher Education sector is seeing rising levels of fraud in relation to the payment of tuition fees.
How to confirm your sponsorship with the University and advice on applying for your student loan.
Managing your money may be the last thing you want to think about, but it’s important to keep on top of things.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/visit/getting-here:
Did you know getting home is easier than you think?
With direct rail and coach links connecting Plymouth with most major UK cities, plus the train station being just a short walk from campus, heading home for the weekend is simple and stress-free.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/virtual-tour:
At Plymouth, we are dedicated to your success and to ensuring that your university experience is exceptional from beginning to end.
Learning and support services We are dedicated to providing a range of learning and support services that support your academic success and personal development.
Teaching, research and support facilities Our facilities are designed to enhance your learning experience and offer practical, hands-on opportunities for skills development.
UPSU The University of Plymouth Students’ Union (UPSU) is an independent, democratically led charity that represents the needs of our students.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/open-days/campus-tours:
Unable to attend an open day?
Our student-led campus tours provide an authentic opportunity to experience campus life in the city
What a fantastic first impression you have created for your university, and how incredibly helpful and thoughtful you have been in putting this visit together – in my 30 years of university visits, your organisation is right at the top!

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/institutes/marine-institute/sustainable-blue-economy/sustainable-aquaculture-and-fisheries:
` Conservation & fisheries
Ö Fish health & nutrition
< Essential fish habitats
Ê Aquaculture & society
We have facilities capable of supporting a range of species with our dedicated tropical- and cold-water aquaria.
Discover more about our leading marine conservation, technology and responsible food production research.
Sustainable Food Production Research Group Cross-disciplinary research studying all aspects of food production and its impact on the natural environment.
Marine Conservation Research Group Investigating the consequences of human activity on marine biodiversity and its ecosystem services.
Sensor Technologies Research Group Bringing together knowledge, skills and expertise in a range of impactful projects featuring sensors as an integral part of their research.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/celtic-sea:
Explore our critically important resources that support floating offshore wind operators with development, de-risking and deployment
Discover why the city of Plymouth is internationally recognised as the prime location to undertake innovative marine and maritime research and development
Find out how we have been instrumental in bringing together industry, research and local government through partnerships that facilitate growth and development for the future

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/centus:
At CENTUS, we are advancing the development of transcranial ultrasound stimulation as a robust and versatile modality for both probing neural mechanisms and addressing complex brain disorders.
Through collaboration between leading researchers and clinicians, we aim to push the boundaries of non-invasive neuromodulation and drive forward the next generation of neuroscience and therapeutic innovation.
Professor Elsa Fouragnan Professor of Neuroscience and Director of CENTUS
Next-generation brain-machine interface for whole-brain input/output
Multi-site and state-dependent effects of TUS on brain function and cognition
Investigating the mechanisms of focused ultrasound mediated neural plasticity using magnetic resonance spectroscopy
The University is working with NHS and industry partners to test a device using ultrasound to improve mood and reduce depression
Scientists highlight the potential for ultrasound to treat some of the more complex health conditions affecting the human brain
Neuroscientists working in our Brain Research and Imaging Centre led a new study published in Nature Communications
The brain activity of patients with depression, captured by MRI scans, may help doctors predict who will respond to the therapy

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/crown-cyber-resilience-of-offshore-wind-networks:
The group has been formed to bring together leading-edge multidisciplinary research and practical expertise in the core areas of cyber-security and maritime operations together with psychology researchers, and maritime law and policy experts.
A nationally unique £3.2m hardware-based maritime cyber security research and development platform.
Our researchers analyse and address cyber security at the hardware, software, and human levels to identify, understand and mitigate threats.
Find out how our unrivalled technical capabilities and expertise can support the successful roll-out of floating offshore wind (FLOW) in the Celtic Sea.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/marine-conservation-research-group/ropes-to-reefs-fisp:
Offshore mussel farming has the potential to become one of the world’s most sustainable, large-scale sources of healthy protein.
Through the Ropes to Reefs project, we can gauge the industry’s potential benefits far beyond just providing a sustainable source of food.
Working closely with the fishing and mussel farming industry, and building on previous and ongoing research, we can deliver essential evidence regarding the impact of offshore aquaculture.
This will enable us to fully assess whether it can serve as a nature-based solution that preserves – if not enhances – the health and productivity of our ocean.
Professor Emma Sheehan Professor of Marine Ecology
The suspended rope culture offshore mussel farm in Lyme Bay has been designed to produce thousands of tonnes of sustainably farmed mussels from a relatively small area, which is less than 1% of Lyme Bay.
During the past nine years of operation, we have witnessed the regeneration of biodiversity in the farmed area and huge increases in the number of fish and shellfish such as bass, mullet, crab and lobster.
These benefit from habitat, shelter, nursery areas and food that is freely available around the ropes in the farm.
The Ropes to Reefs project will provide evidence to determine whether the offshore mussel farm provides an enhancement effect to surrounding commercial fisheries, as the other species spill over from the protected area.
It will also establish whether food produced by this type of aquaculture acts as an addition and not a replacement to traditional fisheries.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/genetic-ecotoxicology/virtual-fish:
Title: Virtual Fish
Project Lead: Professor Awadhesh Jha
Staff involved: Professor Simon Jackson , Professor Wendy Purcell, Dr Mathew Baron, Dr Laura Langan, Dr Richard Maunder, Dr Nicholas Dodd, Dr Stewart Owen, Dr Malcom Hetheridge, Dr Macie Trznadel
Research partners: AstraZeneca, University of Exeter
Contaminants, international law and animal testing Whilst traditionally fundamental life processes are studied at whole organism level ( in vivo) , in recent years for economic, ethical and legal reasons, there has been much emphasis on the use of cells, tissues or organs which are grown outside the body in plastic dishes or flasks ( in vitro) .
Population growth, industrialisation and increasing consumer demands continue to cause environmental stress on living systems with many contaminants finding their way into the aquatic environment, causing an increase in many diseases and impacting on wild species.
To assess the potential detrimental impact of such contaminants international law requires chemicals/consumer products to be tested on animals.
While advances have been made to reduce the number of animals used in biomedical research, the use of fish is still required for assessing the potential toxic effects of contaminants (ecotoxicology).
Whilst traditionally fundamental life processes are studied at whole organism level ( in vivo) , in recent years for economic, ethical and legal reasons, there has been much emphasis on the use of cells, tissues or organs which are grown outside the body in plastic dishes or flasks ( in vitro) .
The use of cell or tissue-based models has been proposed for fish-based studies, with the benefit of requiring only a few donor animals.
It is however not clear how well these models could predict the responses that are seen when using whole animals.
There is therefore reluctance to accept these as a real alternative.
The conventional suspension or single layer in vitro culture models also suffer from drawbacks, (e.g.
they live for a short period in the laboratory, and some functions just do not work outside of the animal) making them unsuitable for long term studies.
The following infographic shows the reduction in the number of fish used when in vivo testing is replaced with in vitro methods.
A single fish can potentially supply enough tissue for many in vitro tests.
In response to this problem we have developed a specialised culture from the liver cells of fish that mimic the responses of tissues in whole fish.
These ball like structures called 'spheroids' live ten times longer than the existing single layer (monolayer) cells.
We have demonstrated that they are able to take-up and metabolise chemicals in a way that is directly comparable to whole fish, suggesting that they could be used as a real alternative to whole animal usage.
These spheroid cells are prepared from only a handful of animals, as opposed to hundreds of animals typically needed to study biomedical procedures and to assess toxicity.
Their small sizes mean that less material and smaller facilitates are required, reducing the cost of research.
Billions of cells can be harvested from a single fish leading to far fewer fish being used in research.
Those that are will not be used directly in experiments, only their tissues harvested after sacrifice.
We aim to progress this model, using the state-of-art technologies to test the hypothesis that a combination of co-cultures (i.e.
different cell types grown together) containing different cell or tissue types of fish (viz.
gill, gut and liver) represents an effective alternative model to live fish studies, thus creating a 'virtual fish' alternative.
This requires establishment of key biological responses at cellular or molecular levels called 'biomarkers', which are already well established in diagnosis, prognosis and treatments of a range of human diseases.
Using these biomarkers, we aim to elucidate the mechanisms and physiological functions by which fish respond to such stresses including following chronic exposures to environmentally relevant chemicals.
We then aim to make robust comparisons to assess whether the model is sensitive enough to be considered as an appropriate replacement to whole fish studies.
The proposal also aims to build strong links between industry, academia and stake holders, both nationally and internationally to share the knowledge base as well as to potentially gain wider regulatory approval as 'real' alternatives to animal tests to continue our commitment to supporting the 3R's (Reduction, Refinement & Replacement) initiative.
An example Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) of a gut spheroid.
An example Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) image of a liver spheroid.
The cultured gill cells have some similar characteristics to the whole tissue such as similar cell types and surface micro-ridges.
The project aims to probe the primary hypothesis that a co-culture of 3D in vitro cultures from rainbow trout can represent an effective alternative model to live fish studies.
Upon establishing standard conditions for the growth and maintenance of co-cultures, we aim to:
The following PDF posters contain more detailed information on the virtual fish project.
Langan LM,, SF Owen, M Trznadel, NJF Dodd, SK Jackson,WM.
Purcell, AN Jha (2018) Spheroid size does not impact metabolism of the β-blocker propranolol in 3D intestinal fish model.
Frontiers in Pharmacology 9, Article 947; doi:103389/phar2018.00947.
(Open Access).
Langan LM, SF Owen, AN Jha (2018b) Establishment and long term maintenance of primary intestinal epithelial cells cultured from the rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss.
BIOLOGY OPEN, bio032870.
doi:10.1242/bio.032870.(Open Access; Cover Page Article).
Langan LM, S Arossa, SF Owen, AN Jha (2018a) Assessing the impact of benzo[a]pyrene with the in vitro fish gut model: An integrated approach for eco-genotoxicological studies.
Mutation Research (Genetic Toxicology & Environmental Mutagenesis), 826, 53–64.
Maunder RJ, MG Baron, SF Owen, AN Jha (2017) Investigations to extend viability of a rainbow trout primary gill cell culture.
Ecotoxicology 26, 1314-1326.
Langan LM, GM Harper, SF Owen, WM Purcell, SK Jackson, AN Jha (2017) Application of the rainbow trout derived intestinal cell line (RTgutGC) for ecotoxicological studies: molecular and cellular responses following exposure to copper.
Ecotoxicology 26, 1117-1133 (Open Access).
Baron MG, KS Mintram, SF Owen, MJ Hetheridge, A John Moody, WM Purcell, SK Jackson, AN Jha (2017) Pharmaceutical metabolism in fish: using a 3-D hepatic in vitro model to assess clearance.
PLoS ONE 12(1): e0168837.doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0168837 (Open Access).
Langan LM, NJF Dodd, SF Owen, WM Purcell, SK Jackson, AN Jha (2016) Direct measurements of oxygen in the middle of 3D tissue cultures using electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy.
PLoS ONE DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0149492 (Open access).
Baron MG, WM Purcell, SK Jackson, SF Owen, AN Jha (2012) Towards a more representative in vitro method for fish ecotoxicology: morphological and biochemical characterisation of three-dimensional spheroidal hepatocytes.
Ecotoxicology 21, 2419-2429.
Our use of animals in research
Genetic Toxicology and Ecotoxicology Research Group
Current trends in fish in vitro toxicology: applications of 3Rs principles
We recently hosted a workshop entitled “Current trends in fish in vitro toxicology: applications of 3Rs principles” on Wednesday 10 May during 27th Annual Meeting of SETAC in Brussels.
This workshop highlighted the current trends in fish in vitro toxicology, especially with respect to new and emerging tools, which may benefit the acceptance of such models in a regulatory framework.
The workshop aimed to benefit scientists working in academia, industry and regulatory agencies by sharing information and discussing future directions.
The meeting provided a much-needed avenue to explore strategies to promote the adoption of these in vitro tools.
We sincerely thank all participants in contributing to making the workshop a success, with particular thanks to Drs Adam Lillicrap (NIVA), Michelle Embry (ILSI HESI) and Julita Stadnicka (Eawag) for contributing presentations.
BBSRC
Natural Environment Research Council (NERC)

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/institutes/sustainable-earth/elms:
The Sustainable Earth Institute is about promoting a new way of thinking about the future of our world.
We bring researchers together with businesses, community groups and individuals to develop cutting-edge research and innovative approaches that build resilience to global challenges.
We link diverse research areas across the University including science, engineering, arts, humanities, health and business.
Find out more about the institute

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/marine-litter/bio-plastic-risk:
This is a truly ground-breaking project.
For years, biodegradable materials – including plant-based bioplastics – have been highlighted for their potential to reduce the environmental impact of packaging waste.
Professor Richard Thompson OBE FRS Director of the Marine Institute

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/controlled-environment-agriculture-research-group/agri-pharmacy-research/advancing-controlled-environment-agriculture:
Our Plant Factory uses novel LED technology to grow crops in controlled hydroponic systems, providing solutions for health, food and water security.
Plant Factory Cornwall Prototyping automated, programmable ‘light recipes’ to accurately deliver the necessary requirements for plants during their differing growth stages.
Optimisation of Plant Factory systems The production of clean pharmaceutical plant species with a stable, consistent concentration of important secondary metabolic products.
Improving energy efficiency of a Plant Factory Using specific light spectra, can we grow plants at higher temperatures to improve energy efficiency and reduce costs?

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/centre-for-health-technology/iconic:
Before ICONIC, I had never experienced human-centred design in action – working with people of all ages and backgrounds to ensure their needs, preferences, and abilities shaped the final product.
Being involved in the design was both interesting and challenging.
Giving your opinions and ideas in one workshop and then seeing which ones made it into the next design iteration made you feel fully involved.
Participant testimonials
Information for participants
The ICONIC team
Research and academic outreach activity

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/tulay:
( Las Piñas, Metro Manila
( Cavite City, Cavite
( Carmona, Cavite
( San Juan, Sibalom, Antique
( Cebu City, Cebu
( Northern Mindanao – sites to be confirmed
ibeht.tulayproject@dlsu.edu.ph
08:30–17:00 Monday to Thursday, 08:30–16:30 Friday
@ProjectTulay
ibeht.tulayproject

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/arts-humanities-business:
More than 250 trained advisors are available at the University of Plymouth
History graduate Peter Nash outlines his last-minute journey to uni to help reassure prospective students
University of Plymouth welcomes new Presidents
Legless in London was inspired by research carried out by Lecturer in English and Creative Writing, Dr Ryan Sweet
Professor Chris Bennewith and Professor Katharine Willis are among the authors of a publication produced by the Key Cities Innovation Network
Empowering transformation through collaborative partnerships, hands-on learning experiences, and future-focused skills development.
Become part of our scholarly community that proudly includes a wide range of research approaches and disciplines
The University’s arts and culture programme welcomes everyone to experience high quality exhibitions, talks, films, music, performances, and events throughout the year.
Guidance on how government, parliament and policy making works and how researchers can engage with policy-making processes
Supporting researchers to maximise their impact and influence policy to transform the places and spaces we inhabit.
Our cutting edge facilities attracts and supports researchers from a wider range of disciplines

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/great-south-west:
Explore expertise and state-of-the-art facilities in marine renewable energy, cyber-security technologies, and sustainable food systems
Energy Security Harnessing the oceans' energy – wind, wave and tidal
Cyber Security Protecting critical national infrastructure
Food Security Sustainably feeding a global population
The Great South West has the natural resources, expertise, innovation ecosystem and proven ability to deploy low-carbon technologies.
This Prospectus underscores our potential to drive significant economic and environmental benefits for the country, creating a resilient energy system that supports the economy and strengthens communities.
By mobilising our assets and working in partnership, we can make the UK a global leader in renewable energy.
Professor Dame Judith Petts DBE Emeritus Professor
The University of Plymouth was proud to provide vital academic expertise for the Great South West Food Security Panel at Westminster.
It's been wonderful to see farmers and agri-tech developers joining forces with our new Centre of Research excellence in Intelligent and Sustainable Productive systems to really put Plymouth on the map as a key driver of sustainable agriculture innovation in the region.
Dr George Littlejohn Associate Professor of Plant and Fungal Biology
It was fantastic to participate in the roundtable discussion and hear the conversation around opportunities and challenges for the GSW FLOW initiative.
There’s a strong sense of cohesion building, with a clear willingness to collaborate and refine a unified message moving forward!
Great to be engaged in the ministerial roundtable discussion as Chair of Maritime UK South West, explaining the University's enabling capability of marine and maritime for the Celtic Sea.
Minister Sarah Jones also took on board key messaging around our leading thinking in transforming ocean observation to drive down the cost of data collection.
Using world-leading facilities like Smart Sound Plymouth, we can create export opportunities for the businesses in this sector that we engage with.
Mr Kevin Forshaw Director of Marine Business Development
I was delighted to be asked to do my little bit towards the collective efforts of the Great South West to make the case for the region in Westminster at their Annual Conference by helping facilitate the conversation around the region’s pivotal role in ‘Delivering the UK’s Defence Capability’ on behalf of both the University of Plymouth and the South West Regional Defence and Security Cluster.
Mrs Chloe Rowland Project and Knowledge Exchange Manager - Cyber-SHIP Lab

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/entrepreneurial-futures:
We are proud to be involved in the Entrepreneurial Futures project, a cornerstone of regional development and innovation aimed at empowering Cornwall and Isles of Scilly businesses and communities.
By fostering transdisciplinary research collaboration, we harness diverse academic expertise to tackle the intricate challenges of entrepreneurship in rapidly evolving markets.
Through practical applications and real-world impact, we pave the way for local businesses to navigate and flourish in dynamic landscapes, ultimately benefiting both communities and industries.
Professor Will Blake Professor of Catchment Science, Director of the Sustainable Earth Institute
Geo-resources
Robotics/Automation
Agri-food
Biodiversity
Business Circularity

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/life-sciences:
Centre of Research excellence in Intelligent and Sustainable Productive Systems (CRISPS)
Brain Research & Imaging Centre (BRIC)

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/coastal-communities:
The new transatlantic partnership will initially focus on exploring some of the global effects of sea level rise
Scientists and anglers say the announcement of new management measures on pollack fishing highlights the urgent need for more data
We need investment into connectivity or inequalities will only widen

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/centre-for-decarbonisation-and-offshore-renewable-energy:
A multinational consortium with leading research institutions addressing the challenges in ocean renewable energy and accelerating global efforts to reduce carbon emissions.
Led by the University of Plymouth, the EPSRC-funded Hub is addressing technical, environmental and interdisciplinary challenges through collaboration, cementing the UK's position as a global leader in offshore renewable energy.
Our research plays a key role in supporting the ambition of Great South West – a strategic initiative aimed at fostering economic growth and development in the region – in terms of both food and energy security, and defence.
Collaborative Offshore Renewable Energy Subsea Systems (COSS)
Royal Navy
The University is among the key partners in a programme that will reinforce Plymouth’s place as a hub of marine autonomy expertise and excellence
Professor Deborah Greaves is the UK member of the International Scientific Committee of the One Ocean Science Congress
The University of Plymouth is working with partners across the region to showcase the South West's floating offshore wind potential
Researchers from the University are involved in a new £3.5m project centred around the potential impacts of FLOW developments in the Celtic Sea
State-of-the-art facilities and kit underpin much of C-DORE’s work

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/centre-for-systems-thinking:
Tackling global challenges using a systems thinking approach.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/sustainable-productive-systems:
Providing sufficient food to feed an expanding human population is one of the major challenges of the 21st century.
At the same time, we need to establish ways to reduce carbon emissions and reverse the dramatic decline in biodiversity… Through the new CRISPS centre, the University now has the capacity to work with existing and new partners to meet those challenges head-on and deliver real and lasting benefits, both in the South West region and for the planet as a whole.
Professor Richard Preziosi Professor and Head of School of Biological and Marine Sciences
We have made major advances in aquaculture, focusing on fish health and feed, and are developing systems to remotely monitor the environmental impacts of productive systems, such as open-land grazing animals and offshore shellfish farms.
Our sustainable agri-tech research makes major contributions to the wider economy.
We work with regional farmers to prototype low-cost robotics solutions and are driving innovation in controlled environment research with industrial partners.
Working with the Sustainable Soil Alliance and DEFRA policy, we have developed a unique interdisciplinary basis for soil health analysis for future farming – from microbial biodiversity and soil carbon to erosion and the viability of manufactured soils.
The Marie Lebour Marine Biology Research Facility is named after a pioneering scientist who spent much of her working life in Plymouth
Researchers from the University are part of the £4million OpenLAND initiative
The University is partnering in a trial exploring ways to improve soil health and reduce soil erosion and flooding
Scientists have suggested that materials being advocated as alternatives to plastic should be tested thoroughly before they are used in products
Streptococcus suis can cause serious, and often fatal, disease in pigs and be transferred to humans working with them

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/centre-for-health-technology:
Building our education offer
Co-design, implementation and evaluation
Digital devices for health conditions
Digital transformation at the system level
Machine learning, AI and robotics in health
Technology-informed practice in healthcare
Virtual/augmented reality in healthcare
Bluesky
LinkedIn

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/facilities/brain-research-imaging-centre:
Email: bric@plymouth.ac.uk
A diverse range of internationally excellent researchers in the field of neuroscience underpins the University's strong track record in brain research.
We ask important questions that draw upon expertise from the single molecule to the whole human, explore the basic mechanisms of cognition and behaviour and apply advanced computational methods to improve our understanding of the brain in health and disease.
I am confident that BRIC will enable us to realise our aim of translating our world-leading research into outcomes that improve the lives of everyone, locally, nationally and internationally.
Professor Stephen Hall Strategic Director of the Brain Research & Imaging Centre, Professor of Human Neuroimaging, University of Plymouth
Every aspect of this project will allow DDRC Healthcare to grow and develop.
It is a true collaboration that consolidates our many years of working with the University of Plymouth and the NHS.
The co-location of neurological research excellence, state-of-the-art imaging facilities and a hyperbaric medical centre will move us to the forefront of international research and training.
Our patients will be scanned on a state-of-the-art 3T MRI scanner.
This means improved diagnosis and treatment, and improved access to timely imaging.
Moreover the project will allow our patients to participate in more clinical research trials than they have previously had access to.
bric@plymouth.ac.uk
Brain Research & Imaging Centre,
c/o Hyperbaric Medical Centre,
Research Way,
Plymouth
Devon
PL6 8BU.
what3words: Bright.Green.Daisy
@BrainBric
University Hospitals Plymouth NHS Trust
DDRC Healthcare

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/institutes/marine-institute:
Plymouth has been a focus for marine science for over 100 years.
Our research and partnerships are fundamental in helping us understand the marine environment and how best to tackle the challenges it currently faces.
3 Jun 2025
One Ocean Science Congress 2025
9 Jun 2025
Our contribution to the UN Ocean Conference
10 Jun 2025 12:00-15:00
The UN Treaty to End Plastic Pollution: Robust Science for Success
Tsian Deslandes has set up an initiative to encourage more people - and greater diversity - into her subject
21 postgraduate students spent two weeks working alongside academics and students at Hainan University
Solomon Weston is working as the scientific officer on board a 1,000-mile swimming expedition around the coast of Iceland
Scientists revisited turn-of-the-century forecasts about threats that would face the world’s shorelines
Researchers used sewage and weather data and satellite monitoring to highlight a potential hidden source of microplastic pollution
Study marine at Plymouth
Explore our facilities and field equipment
Collaborate with the Marine Institute
marine.institute@plymouth.ac.uk
+44 1752 584955
Marine Institute,
Level 3, Marine Building,
University of Plymouth,
Drake Circus,
Plymouth
PL4 8AA
@PlymUniMI

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/institutes/sustainable-earth:
At Plymouth, one of our key strengths is in using research and technology to develop evidence-led sustainable practices.
We work in partnership with communities and organisations around the world to co-create climate-smart solutions, informed by accurate and reliable environmental data to deliver optimal benefit for society and the environment.
Professor Will Blake Professor of Catchment Science
Discover how we are accelerating the transition to renewable energy by developing efficient energy infrastructure and technology, promoting natural asset management, and examining how we consume energy more responsibly.
Find out how we are helping the UK to meet carbon net zero targets by carrying out research and innovation, demonstrating leadership, and supporting education and skills development, as well as developing a modern, sustainable campus.
Learn how researchers are working with communities to co-design solutions to the challenges they face, including degraded land and soils, and how technological advancements are supporting more sustainable agricultural practices.
A major new £5.6 million initiative working with businesses and communities in Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly to deliver activities around net zero, clean energy, agri-robotics, immersive technologies and coastal communities.
We are supporting the race to net zero by bringing a wide range of researchers and enterprises together, taking a whole-systems approach to research, engagement and solutions to tackle cross-cutting decarbonisation issues.
The ELMS Exchange project works with farmers and landowners to explore the validation of on-farm soil assessment and land management actions from the Sustainable Farming Incentive (SFI).
Increasing community understanding of river resilience by delivering six nature-based solution demonstration sites for natural flood management across Cornwall.
New evidence map set to help zoos and aquariums worldwide
The University is in the running for the Sustainability Institution of the Year and Diversity, Equity & Inclusion in Sustainability categories
Elliot West studied air pollution levels in and around Derriford Hospital during his MSc Environmental Consultancy programme
Discover past events, SEI conferences and thought leadership from keynote speakers
Sustainability is embedded not just in research across the University, but also in our course provision and campus operations.
Strategic Research Institutes Our interdisciplinary institutes support collaboration, provide first-class research environments, and showcase the impact of our groundbreaking work.
Sustainability study opportunities We are recognised as an innovative leader in higher education for sustainability.
Learn about our sustainability-conscious study opportunities.
Sustainability operations We're leading by example and creating a sustainable campus that reduces our impact on the environment across all aspects of our operations.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/news/experts-directory:
The University of Plymouth welcomes inquiries from the media seeking opinion, analysis and commentary from our world-leading research staff
The view from Plymouth: our expert take on what's making the news Discover our long reads.
In-depth features, opinion pieces and profiles by our experts on the topics changing the world.
“Using our world-leading expertise to respond to the climate emergency, and generating the knowledge and skills that will drive future adaptation and sustainable living, is at the heart of our mission.” The best opinions, comments and analysis from the University of Plymouth
Discover our long reads.
The best opinions, comments and analysis from the University of Plymouth
Featured expert
Saving our seas from plastic
Plymouth Pioneers We are committed to developing solutions to the planet's most challenging issues.
Our pioneering spirit runs deep in the quest for a better tomorrow.
Meet our pioneering researchers
+44 1752 588004
Press Office, 
University of Plymouth, 
Hepworth House, 
Drake Circus, 
Plymouth, 
Devon,
PL4 8AA
@PlymUniNews

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/support:
How to access Research and Innovation support for your research activities
Public engagement
Peninsula Clinical Trials Unit support
Development and training
Finance research support
Library Research Support Services
Research ethics

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/news/new-facilities-enable-scientists-and-students-to-answer-key-questions-around-sustainable-food-production:
Media and Communications Manager
Corporate Communications (Marketing and Communications)
The investment in our new aquarium systems represents a major step forward in our capacity to conduct innovative and scalable research in aquaculture health and nutrition.
Professor Daniel Merrifield Professor of Aquaculture Health and Nutrition
The eDNA and Metabarcoding Facility dramatically increases our ability to assess and quantify biodiversity from environmental samples as well as detect pathogens and diseases of interest.
Dr Jennifer Rowntree Associate Professor in Ecological Genetics
Specialist controlled environment, aquaculture and sensor technology
Sustainable Aquaculture and Fisheries

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/news/partnership-advances-work-to-develop-pioneering-autonomous-marine-survey-platform:
Marine autonomy is a critical element of the UK’s defence and resilience operations.
Professor Christopher Fogwill Executive Dean

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/news/university-supports-new-water-quality-monitoring-project:
There are many things that impact water quality in our rivers and seas, and gathering observations and data is critical if we are to make positive changes for the future.
This project will be a significant step towards that in the South Hams, helping us to prevent future environmental degradation of our waterways by improving awareness and understanding within our local communities.
Professor Simon Ussher Professor of Marine and Analytical Chemistry
This is a brilliant example of what can happen when communities, researchers and businesses join forces to tackle real problems.
At a time when concerns about water quality have understandably come to the forefront, we’re pleased to be working alongside South Hams District Council on this project.
Our sensors have the ability to provide the kind of real-time insights into water quality that we hope will enable decisions around tackling water pollution that benefit both the environment and the local communities.
This project is utilising our latest sensors, all designed and manufactured at our Totnes facility.
It’s incredibly rewarding to see our instruments that are used worldwide being applied to such an important local initiative.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/news/experts-remain-hopeful-after-latest-round-of-global-plastics-treaty-negotiations:
There are well over 100 nations supporting the principles of an ambitious treaty to end plastic pollution.
In addition, some are undecided and getting the best available scientific evidence to inform their decisions has been a key part of my work over the last week.
There are also some nations with lower ambition, and this I think is mainly because they fear the treaty could bring economic costs for their countries – for example, those countries who are major producers of oil and gas, which is the carbon source for plastic production.
Plastic pollution contaminates our planet from the poles to the equator and from our deepest oceans to our highest mountain.
Microplastics are in the air we breathe, the water we drink and the food we eat.
Pollution occurs along the entire lifecycle of plastics and negatively affects economies, wildlife and human health, with exposure starting in the womb and continuing throughout life.
And plastic production is set to triple over the next few decades so, unless we take action, the problem will escalate.
Having attended dozens of meetings and met hundreds of negotiators and representatives from industry and civil society organisations as part of the INC process, my feeling after INC-5.2 is that the willingness to reduce the global threats posed by plastic pollution is stronger than ever.
Professor Richard Thompson OBE FRS Head of the International Marine Litter Research Unit
Supporting the Global Plastics Treaty
International Marine Litter Research Unit
Public policy influence

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/news/13m-nuclear-programme-to-boost-uk-energy-security-through-sustainable-graphite-innovation:
This project is not just about scientific discovery; it's about pioneering sustainable solutions for nuclear energy, turning waste into a valuable resource and bolstering the UK's energy security for decades to come.
Dr Katie Jones Lecturer in Environmental Chemistry
Nuclear graphite plays a vital role in the safety and efficiency of advanced reactors, yet the UK currently relies on overseas suppliers for this material.
ENLIGHT will lay the foundation to reestablish UK-based graphite supply chain while developing sustainable solutions to recycle and reuse irradiated graphite – transforming a growing waste stream into a valuable resource.
This programme will reduce waste, strengthen energy security, and support the country’s net zero ambitions.
The Environment Agency look forward to participating as a partner in the ENLIGHT programme.
As the environmental regulator for the nuclear industry in England, we consider the ambitions of the ENLIGHT programme on 'sustainable graphite' aligns with our Regulatory and RD&I areas of interest.
Read about our CPD programme: Nuclear Applications for Science and Engineering
Find out about the work of our Consolidated Radio-isotope Facility (CoRiF)

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/news/news:
Subscribe to our news feed
University of Plymouth news: Academics from the Peninsula Dental School worked with colleagues across the UK on an updated edition of Standards in Dentistry, a flagship publication of the College of General Dentistry
University of Plymouth news: The Marie Lebour Marine Biology Research Facility will enable the University to both continue, and expand on, its world-leading research and teaching on sustainable marine production systems
University of Plymouth news: Advancing its marine autonomy research, the University is working with the Royal Navy and Robosys Automation to create an integrated system for over-the-horizon data gathering
University of Plymouth news: The University is working with partners and communities in Devon to explore ways to tackle water pollution through a new monitoring project
University of Plymouth news: Researchers from our International Marine Litter Research Unit attended two weeks of discussions by delegates from across the world at INC-5.2 in Geneva
University of Plymouth news: With A Level, T Level and BTEC results now live, more than 250 trained advisors are available at the University of Plymouth to support people through Confirmation and Clearing.
University of Plymouth news: Professor Sally Hanks has been named a National Teaching Fellow for her transformative work in dental education and commitment to empowering others.
University of Plymouth news: BSc (Hons) Ocean Science student Tsian Deslandes has set up an initiative to encourage more people - and greater diversity - into her subject
University of Plymouth news: The University is one of the key partners in the ENLIGHT programme, which will transform the lifecycle of graphite in nuclear energy – an essential material for the future deployment of nuclear power.
University of Plymouth news: A world-first study has catalogued the scientific evidence behind animal management, to help zoos and aquariums make decisions based on the best available science.
University of Plymouth news: From homelessness to belonging – “Clearing gave me a chance”.
Psychology with Criminology student Ash Parker describes her Clearing journey.
show more

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/whats-on/exploring-marine-and-maritime-collaborations-with-the-plymouth-business-school:
Venue tbc

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/whats-on/nihr-academy-members-conference:
In person (The Queens Hotel, New Station Street City Square, Leeds LS1 1PJ) and online

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/whats-on/nihr-insight-sw-peninsula-webinar-inclusivity-in-research:
Online (via Teams)

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/whats-on/ai-x-sustainability-business-opportunities-and-challenges:
In person (Sustainability Hub Forum, University of Plymouth)

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/whats-on/events:
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Soul Fuel.
Event for University of Plymouth students and staff.
University of Plymouth, various dates.
28 Aug 2025 09:45-10:00
28 August 2025 09:45 - 10:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Unlock Inner Peace: Join Our Weekly Mindfulness Practice!
Weekly sessions for University of Plymouth staff and students.
28 Aug 2025 16:30-17:00
28 August 2025 16:30 - 17:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Path of the Prophet.
Weekly Islamic discussion group for University of Plymouth students and staff.
29 Aug 2025 11:00-12:00
29 August 2025 11:00 - 12:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP) business information sessions.
How different businesses can benefit from a project and explore other services for business that are available.
Online, various dates.
29 Aug 2025 12:00-13:00
29 August 2025 12:00 - 13:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Join the Conversation: Atheist – Why?
Weekly drop-in sessions for University of Plymouth students and staff.
29 Aug 2025 12:30-13:00
29 August 2025 12:30 - 13:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Cake and Conversation.
Event for University of Plymouth students.
29 Aug 2025 13:00-14:00
29 August 2025 13:00 - 14:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Tamar Valley Food Hubs.
Local food collection point on Friday afternoons at the University of Plymouth.
29 Aug 2025 15:30-15:45
29 August 2025 15:30 - 15:45
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Snorkel Safari.
Join the Devon Wildlife Trust snorkel team for an underwater tour of stunning Wembury Bay!
Wembury, various dates.
30 Aug 2025 13:30-16:00
30 August 2025 13:30 - 16:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Monthly International Dinners.
Community event – all welcome.
Plymouth, various dates.
30 Aug 2025 18:30-21:30
30 August 2025 18:30 - 21:30
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Embrace Sunday with Christ Miracle Church Mission!
Weekly event for University of Plymouth students.
31 Aug 2025 09:00-12:00
31 August 2025 09:00 - 12:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Poetry Matters.
Make time for the poetry in your life.
1 Sep 2025 12:00-13:00
1 September 2025 12:00 - 13:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Detox for the Soul.
1 Sep 2025 13:00-14:00
1 September 2025 13:00 - 14:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: God Explored.
Exploring the belief that happiness can be achieved by faith in Jesus Christ.
1 Sep 2025 15:00-16:00
1 September 2025 15:00 - 16:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: A Space to Breathe and Grieve.
Grief and Bereavement Network for University of Plymouth staff.
2 Sep 2025 12:00-13:00
2 September 2025 12:00 - 13:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: The Staff and Postgraduate Bible Study Fellowship.
Event for University of Plymouth staff and postgraduate students.
2 Sep 2025 13:00-14:00
2 September 2025 13:00 - 14:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Journey through Scripture.
Event for University of Plymouth staff and students University of Plymouth, various dates.
2 Sep 2025 14:00-15:00
2 September 2025 14:00 - 15:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Global Buddies – group for international students.
2 Sep 2025 16:00-19:00
2 September 2025 16:00 - 19:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Lunchtime meditation sessions for University of Plymouth students and staff.
3 Sep 2025 12:30-13:00
3 September 2025 12:30 - 13:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Wednesday Games Hour.
Board game madness for University of Plymouth students and staff.
3 Sep 2025 13:00-14:00
3 September 2025 13:00 - 14:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Undergraduate Bible Study Fellowship.
Event for University of Plymouth undergraduate students.
4 Sep 2025 09:45-10:00
4 September 2025 09:45 - 10:00
4 Sep 2025 16:30-17:00
4 September 2025 16:30 - 17:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Plymouth Climate Choir Rehearsal.
Singing to change hearts and minds on the climate and nature emergency.
4 Sep 2025 19:00-20:30
4 September 2025 19:00 - 20:30
5 Sep 2025 11:00-12:00
5 September 2025 11:00 - 12:00
5 Sep 2025 12:30-13:00
5 September 2025 12:30 - 13:00
5 Sep 2025 13:00-14:00
5 September 2025 13:00 - 14:00
5 Sep 2025 15:30-15:45
5 September 2025 15:30 - 15:45
6 Sep 2025 10:00-12:30
6 September 2025 10:00 - 12:30
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Seaquest.
Join Devon Wildlife Trust for a monthly sea watch at Wembury Point!
7 Sep 2025 08:30-10:30
7 September 2025 08:30 - 10:30
7 Sep 2025 09:00-12:00
7 September 2025 09:00 - 12:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Rockpool Safari.
Join Devon Wildlife Trust staff and volunteers for a guided tour of some of the best rockpools in the UK!
7 Sep 2025 11:30-13:00
7 September 2025 11:30 - 13:00
8 Sep 2025 12:00-13:00
8 September 2025 12:00 - 13:00
8 Sep 2025 13:00-14:00
8 September 2025 13:00 - 14:00
Day one and two of the international student welcome event programme.
8 Sep 2025 10:00-15:00
8 September 2025 10:00 - 15:00
8 Sep 2025 15:00-16:00
8 September 2025 15:00 - 16:00
9 Sep 2025 13:00-14:00
9 September 2025 13:00 - 14:00
9 Sep 2025 14:00-15:00
9 September 2025 14:00 - 15:00
9 Sep 2025 10:00-15:00
9 September 2025 10:00 - 15:00
9 Sep 2025 16:00-19:00
9 September 2025 16:00 - 19:00
10 Sep 2025 12:30-13:00
10 September 2025 12:30 - 13:00
10 Sep 2025 13:00-14:00
10 September 2025 13:00 - 14:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Shoresearch Volunteer Survey.
Join Devon Wildlife Trust’s Wembury Marine Centre for a Shoresearch Survey at Wembury Beach.
10 Sep 2025 12:30-15:00
10 September 2025 12:30 - 15:00
11 Sep 2025 09:45-10:00
11 September 2025 09:45 - 10:00
International student welcome event: day four.
Providing information about settling into life in the UK and our support services.
11 Sep 2025 11:00-12:30
11 September 2025 11:00 - 12:30
11 Sep 2025 10:00-15:00
11 September 2025 10:00 - 15:00
11 Sep 2025 13:00-15:30
11 September 2025 13:00 - 15:30
11 Sep 2025 16:30-17:00
11 September 2025 16:30 - 17:00
12 Sep 2025 11:00-12:00
12 September 2025 11:00 - 12:00
12 Sep 2025 12:30-13:00
12 September 2025 12:30 - 13:00
12 Sep 2025 13:00-14:00
12 September 2025 13:00 - 14:00
International student welcome event: day five.
Learn more about some of the important things to be aware of as a university student in the UK.
12 Sep 2025 10:00-15:00
12 September 2025 10:00 - 15:00
12 Sep 2025 15:30-15:45
12 September 2025 15:30 - 15:45
12 Sep 2025 14:30-16:00
12 September 2025 14:30 - 16:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Plymouth Astronomical Society meetings.
Monthly meetings open to all.
12 Sep 2025 19:30-21:30
12 September 2025 19:30 - 21:30
14 Sep 2025 09:00-12:00
14 September 2025 09:00 - 12:00
15 Sep 2025 12:00-13:00
15 September 2025 12:00 - 13:00
15 Sep 2025 13:00-14:00
15 September 2025 13:00 - 14:00
15 Sep 2025 15:00-16:00
15 September 2025 15:00 - 16:00
16 Sep 2025 13:00-14:00
16 September 2025 13:00 - 14:00
16 Sep 2025 14:00-15:00
16 September 2025 14:00 - 15:00
16 Sep 2025 16:00-19:00
16 September 2025 16:00 - 19:00
17 Sep 2025 12:30-13:00
17 September 2025 12:30 - 13:00
17 Sep 2025 13:00-14:00
17 September 2025 13:00 - 14:00
18 Sep 2025 09:45-10:00
18 September 2025 09:45 - 10:00
18 Sep 2025 16:30-17:00
18 September 2025 16:30 - 17:00
18 Sep 2025 19:00-20:30
18 September 2025 19:00 - 20:30
19 Sep 2025 11:00-12:00
19 September 2025 11:00 - 12:00
Explore the planet's undersea habitats in a free screening of Attenborough's latest film, Ocean.
8 Sep 2025
8 September 2025 - 19 September 2025
19 Sep 2025 12:30-13:00
19 September 2025 12:30 - 13:00
19 Sep 2025 13:00-14:00
19 September 2025 13:00 - 14:00
19 Sep 2025 15:30-15:45
19 September 2025 15:30 - 15:45
20 Sep 2025 10:00-12:30
20 September 2025 10:00 - 12:30
21 Sep 2025 09:00-12:00
21 September 2025 09:00 - 12:00
21 Sep 2025 11:30-13:00
21 September 2025 11:30 - 13:00
22 Sep 2025 12:00-13:00
22 September 2025 12:00 - 13:00
22 Sep 2025 13:00-14:00
22 September 2025 13:00 - 14:00
22 Sep 2025 15:00-16:00
22 September 2025 15:00 - 16:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Investing in Energy Transition.
Exploring the South West's potential £30 billion in inward investment into energy transition.
University of Plymouth: 23 September 2025.
23 Sep 2025 08:30-14:00
23 September 2025 08:30 - 14:00
23 Sep 2025 13:00-14:00
23 September 2025 13:00 - 14:00
23 Sep 2025 14:00-15:00
23 September 2025 14:00 - 15:00
23 Sep 2025 16:00-19:00
23 September 2025 16:00 - 19:00
24 Sep 2025 12:30-13:00
24 September 2025 12:30 - 13:00
24 Sep 2025 13:00-14:00
24 September 2025 13:00 - 14:00
25 Sep 2025 09:45-10:00
25 September 2025 09:45 - 10:00
25 Sep 2025 16:30-17:00
25 September 2025 16:30 - 17:00
26 Sep 2025 11:00-12:00
26 September 2025 11:00 - 12:00
26 Sep 2025 12:00-13:00
26 September 2025 12:00 - 13:00
26 Sep 2025 12:30-13:00
26 September 2025 12:30 - 13:00
26 Sep 2025 13:00-14:00
26 September 2025 13:00 - 14:00
26 Sep 2025 15:30-15:45
26 September 2025 15:30 - 15:45
27 Sep 2025 18:30-21:30
27 September 2025 18:30 - 21:30
28 Sep 2025 09:00-12:00
28 September 2025 09:00 - 12:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Great British Beach Clean.
Community beach clean – event open to all.
Wembury, 28 September 2025.
28 Sep 2025 10:30-12:30
28 September 2025 10:30 - 12:30
29 Sep 2025 12:00-13:00
29 September 2025 12:00 - 13:00
29 Sep 2025 13:00-14:00
29 September 2025 13:00 - 14:00
29 Sep 2025 15:00-16:00
29 September 2025 15:00 - 16:00
30 Sep 2025 13:00-14:00
30 September 2025 13:00 - 14:00
30 Sep 2025 14:00-15:00
30 September 2025 14:00 - 15:00
30 Sep 2025 16:00-19:00
30 September 2025 16:00 - 19:00
1 Oct 2025 12:30-13:00
1 October 2025 12:30 - 13:00
1 Oct 2025 13:00-14:00
1 October 2025 13:00 - 14:00
2 Oct 2025 09:45-10:00
2 October 2025 09:45 - 10:00
2 Oct 2025 16:30-17:00
2 October 2025 16:30 - 17:00
2 Oct 2025 19:00-20:30
2 October 2025 19:00 - 20:30
3 Oct 2025 11:00-12:00
3 October 2025 11:00 - 12:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Induction day for new research students.
2 Oct 2025
2 October 2025 - 3 October 2025
3 Oct 2025 12:30-13:00
3 October 2025 12:30 - 13:00
3 Oct 2025 15:30-15:45
3 October 2025 15:30 - 15:45
5 Oct 2025 08:30-10:30
5 October 2025 08:30 - 10:30
5 Oct 2025 09:00-12:00
5 October 2025 09:00 - 12:00
6 Oct 2025 12:00-13:00
6 October 2025 12:00 - 13:00
6 Oct 2025 13:00-14:00
6 October 2025 13:00 - 14:00
6 Oct 2025 15:00-16:00
6 October 2025 15:00 - 16:00
7 Oct 2025 12:00-13:00
7 October 2025 12:00 - 13:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Success Intelligence.
Workshop for University of Plymouth students and staff.
8 Oct 2025 14:00-15:00
8 October 2025 14:00 - 15:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Net Zero and Climate Change: Getting Started as Individuals and Enterprises.
A free three-hour online course on net zero.
8 Oct 2025 10:00-16:00
8 October 2025 10:00 - 16:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Exploring marine and maritime collaborations with the Plymouth Business School.
Event for University of Plymouth staff and Marine Research Plymouth colleagues.
University of Plymouth, 8 October 2025.
8 Oct 2025 15:00-18:00
8 October 2025 15:00 - 18:00
9 Oct 2025 12:00-13:00
9 October 2025 12:00 - 13:00
10 Oct 2025 19:30-21:30
10 October 2025 19:30 - 21:30
11 Oct 2025 14:00-15:30
11 October 2025 14:00 - 15:30
13 Oct 2025 12:00-13:00
13 October 2025 12:00 - 13:00
13 Oct 2025 13:00-14:00
13 October 2025 13:00 - 14:00
13 Oct 2025 15:00-16:00
13 October 2025 15:00 - 16:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Plugging in – Connecting People to the Power of Community Renewable Energy.
A free in-person workshop for employees of Cornwall and Isles of Scilly businesses.
Cornwall, 14 October 2025.
14 Oct 2025 09:30-14:00
14 October 2025 09:30 - 14:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Student Active Bystander Training.
Creating a safe and inclusive environment.
15 Oct 2025 13:00-14:30
15 October 2025 13:00 - 14:30
16 Oct 2025 19:00-20:30
16 October 2025 19:00 - 20:30
What's on at the University of Plymouth: NIHR Academy Members' Conference.
Clinic to Community: Transforming Population Health Through Integration and Innovation.
Leeds and online, 21–22 October 2025.
21 Oct 2025
21 October 2025 - 22 October 2025
22 Oct 2025 10:00-16:00
22 October 2025 10:00 - 16:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth:  This NIHR INSIGHT webinar will look at inclusivity in research, with speakers covering a range of areas for discussion.
24 Oct 2025 12:00-13:00
24 October 2025 12:00 - 13:00
25 Oct 2025 18:30-21:30
25 October 2025 18:30 - 21:30
30 Oct 2025 19:00-20:30
30 October 2025 19:00 - 20:30
31 Oct 2025 12:00-13:00
31 October 2025 12:00 - 13:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Girls into Ocean Science.
University of Plymouth, 31 October 2025.
31 Oct 2025 09:00-16:00
31 October 2025 09:00 - 16:00
2 Nov 2025 08:30-10:30
2 November 2025 08:30 - 10:30
4 Nov 2025 12:00-13:00
4 November 2025 12:00 - 13:00
6 Nov 2025 10:00-12:30
6 November 2025 10:00 - 12:30
9 Nov 2025 13:00-15:30
9 November 2025 13:00 - 15:30
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Remembrance Ceremony.
In memory of those who died in conflict.
University of Plymouth, 11 November 2025.
11 Nov 2025 10:50-11:10
11 November 2025 10:50 - 11:10
12 Nov 2025 10:00-11:00
12 November 2025 10:00 - 11:00
12 Nov 2025 13:00-14:30
12 November 2025 13:00 - 14:30
12 Nov 2025 14:00-15:00
12 November 2025 14:00 - 15:00
13 Nov 2025 19:00-20:30
13 November 2025 19:00 - 20:30
14 Nov 2025 19:30-21:30
14 November 2025 19:30 - 21:30
What's on at the University of Plymouth: This event will explore the relationship between AI and sustainable development.
In-person event, 19 Nov 2025.
19 Nov 2025 14:00-16:00
19 November 2025 14:00 - 16:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: The Lord Caradon Lecture.
Lecture by Jon Sopel, one of Britain's foremost journalists and commentators.
University of Plymouth, 20 November 2025.
20 Nov 2025
20 November 2025
What's on at the University of Plymouth: World AMR Awareness Week (WAAW).
Raising awareness and understanding of Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR).
18–24 November 2025.
18 Nov 2025
18 November 2025 - 24 November 2025
27 Nov 2025 19:00-20:30
27 November 2025 19:00 - 20:30
28 Nov 2025 12:00-13:00
28 November 2025 12:00 - 13:00
29 Nov 2025 18:30-21:30
29 November 2025 18:30 - 21:30
1 Dec 2025 10:00-13:00
1 December 2025 10:00 - 13:00
2 Dec 2025 12:00-13:00
2 December 2025 12:00 - 13:00
3 Dec 2025 14:00-15:00
3 December 2025 14:00 - 15:00
5 Dec 2025 11:00-12:00
5 December 2025 11:00 - 12:00
11 Dec 2025 19:00-20:30
11 December 2025 19:00 - 20:30
12 Dec 2025 19:30-21:30
12 December 2025 19:30 - 21:30
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Skills Bootcamp: Future Climate Leaders.
A 60-hour course for Devon and Cornwall-based individuals looking to drive sustainable business practices within their organisation.
September – December 2025.
11 Sep 2025
11 September 2025 - 18 December 2025
27 Dec 2025 18:30-21:30
27 December 2025 18:30 - 21:30
6 Jan 2026 12:00-13:00
6 January 2026 12:00 - 13:00
9 Jan 2026 19:30-21:30
9 January 2026 19:30 - 21:30
12 Jan 2026 14:00-15:00
12 January 2026 14:00 - 15:00
13 Jan 2026 14:00-15:00
13 January 2026 14:00 - 15:00
30 Jan 2026 12:00-13:00
30 January 2026 12:00 - 13:00
31 Jan 2026 18:30-21:30
31 January 2026 18:30 - 21:30
3 Feb 2026 12:00-13:00
3 February 2026 12:00 - 13:00
What's on at the University of Plymouth: International Shipwreck Conference.
Annual conference for divers, explorers and shipwreck enthusiasts.
University of Plymouth, 7 February 2026.
7 Feb 2026 09:00-17:00
7 February 2026 09:00 - 17:00
11 Feb 2026 13:00-14:30
11 February 2026 13:00 - 14:30
13 Feb 2026 19:30-21:30
13 February 2026 19:30 - 21:30
18 Feb 2026 10:00-11:00
18 February 2026 10:00 - 11:00
18 Feb 2026 14:00-15:00
18 February 2026 14:00 - 15:00
24 Feb 2026 10:00-13:00
24 February 2026 10:00 - 13:00
27 Feb 2026 12:00-13:00
27 February 2026 12:00 - 13:00
28 Feb 2026 18:30-21:30
28 February 2026 18:30 - 21:30
3 Mar 2026 12:00-13:00
3 March 2026 12:00 - 13:00
13 Mar 2026 19:30-21:30
13 March 2026 19:30 - 21:30
What's on at the University of Plymouth: British Science Week.
A celebration of science, technology, engineering and maths.
6–15 March 2026.
6 Mar 2026
6 March 2026 - 15 March 2026
18 Mar 2026 14:00-15:00
18 March 2026 14:00 - 15:00
19 Mar 2026 10:00-11:00
19 March 2026 10:00 - 11:00
27 Mar 2026 12:00-13:00
27 March 2026 12:00 - 13:00
28 Mar 2026 18:30-21:30
28 March 2026 18:30 - 21:30
10 Apr 2026 19:30-21:30
10 April 2026 19:30 - 21:30
22 Apr 2026 14:00-15:00
22 April 2026 14:00 - 15:00
25 Apr 2026 18:30-21:30
25 April 2026 18:30 - 21:30
30 Apr 2026 14:00-15:00
30 April 2026 14:00 - 15:00
8 May 2026 19:30-21:30
8 May 2026 19:30 - 21:30
13 May 2026 14:00-15:00
13 May 2026 14:00 - 15:00
14 May 2026 10:00-11:00
14 May 2026 10:00 - 11:00
30 May 2026 18:30-21:30
30 May 2026 18:30 - 21:30
12 Jun 2026 19:30-21:30
12 June 2026 19:30 - 21:30
What's on at the University of Plymouth: Autobiographical Processing and Psychopathology Conference 2026.
Special interest meeting.
University of Plymouth, 23–24 June 2026.
23 Jun 2026
23 June 2026 - 24 June 2026
10 Jul 2026 19:30-21:30
10 July 2026 19:30 - 21:30

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/news/pr-opinion:
Time for action to address the climate emergency
Identifying solutions to the global soil crisis
Our Natural Powerhouse: the South West is the UK’s hub for clean green growth
There is no vaccine for natural hazards
The tree-planting misconception: Conservation is not about rewinding the ecological clock
‘Ace in the Whole’: tackling the climate crisis with Systems Thinking
Addressing plastic pollution on a global scale
COP26: Did world leaders get their priorities right?
A real climate solution
The Princess and THAT photograph
A creative approach to the climate crisis
Stay at home.
Is it really that simple?
Is the role of the public historian more important than ever?
Music is more than entertainment, it can transform lives
400 years later: reconsidering the Mayflower
How do we protect our oceans?
The solutions lie on land and with people
The race to 2050: harnessing the ocean’s energy
The ocean has life-giving power.
Is systems thinking the key to protecting it?
Can our coastal experience help us save the deep sea?
Sea-level rise is inevitable.
We need to adapt to avoid the greatest harm
Robot ships are ready, but are we?
Keeping the fleet sailing during Covid-19
Plastic pollution and the planet
“We need to trust science, not condemn it, in order to survive”
Forget about the North-South divide, children in coastal communities are being left behind
How about I ask you?
‘Never let a good crisis go to waste’: the future of digital health
eHealth: saviour or Trojan Horse?
Why it’s time for a rethink on dementia care

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/public-engagement-at-plymouth:
Find out what our team can offer
Training and events Details of our upcoming training and events.
Awards and funding We support researchers with funding opportunities to try out new public engagement methods and approaches within their research proposals.
Case studies Discover some of the ways our researchers have worked to engage with the public.
Designed to equip you with the tools and knowledge to excel in public engagement, this programme offers a range of online modules and downloadable toolkits, all accessible through Moodle.
The Explore Awards aim to assist researchers, with priority for Early Career Researchers, in a range of ways to support their public engagement with research.
Do you have a local issue that needs researching?
Have you got a problem in your community that you want to resolve, or an idea to help the city?
You can get involved in community research with us!
The ESRC Festival of Social Science offers a fascinating insight into some of the country's leading social science research and how it influences our social, economic and political lives – both now and in the future.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/early-career-research:
Forming a vital part of the academic community at the University of Plymouth, our Early Career Researcher community comprises of experienced researchers as well as researchers just starting their career.
We recognise that networking, support and continuing professional development is integral to developing and sustaining a career in research.
If you have any enquiries or suggestions about this Early Career Research page, please email researchskills@plymouth.ac.uk .
Researcher Forum The University Researcher Forum enables research staff, managers of researchers, academics and staff supporting researchers the valuable opportunity to join discussions, hear developments, share practice, connect and be consulted on important issues for researchers.
The University Researcher Forum enables research staff, managers of researchers, academics and staff supporting researchers the valuable opportunity to join discussions, hear developments, share practice, connect and be consulted on important issues for researchers.
Health Early Career Researcher Forum
Early Career Researcher Forum for Arts, Humanities and Business-related researchers
Early Career Researcher Forum for Science and Engineering-related researchers
The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, commonly known as the Researcher Development Concordat, is an agreement between stakeholders to improve the employment and support for researchers and researcher careers in higher education in the UK.
It sets out three clear Principles of environment and culture, employment, and professional and career development.
The principles are underpinned by obligations for the four key stakeholder groups, funders, institutions, researchers and managers of researchers, to realise the aims of the Concordat.
The University of Plymouth is committed to supporting researchers’ career and professional development and creating an environment in which they can flourish.
The Concordat enables the University to support a range of key initiatives including cross-institutional Researcher Forum and Early Career Researcher networks, representation, training, development and support for researchers.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/kevin-jones:
Academic profile
Deputy Vice-Chancellor - Research and Innovation Office of Vice Chancellor
Overview
Fingerprint
Network
Research outputs
Similar profiles
In 2015, UN member states agreed to 17 global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity for all.
Kevin's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
Reporting to the Vice-Chancellor, Kevin leads on all aspects of Research and Innovation, across the University.
Kevin holds a range of external roles on behalf of the University.
Key elements of his overall portfolio of responsibilities include:
Kevin is a member of University Senate and attends Board of Governors meetings.
Kevin is also the Chair of the UK Computing Research Committee, a Member Royal Academy of Engineering Ethics Steering Group, the BCS Academy and an Honorary Associate of the Engineering Council.
Kevin joined the University in 2014 as its Executive Dean of Science and Engineering from City,  University of London, where he was Interim Dean of Informatics in a career that has encompassed academe and industry on both sides of the Atlantic.
Kevin holds a Chair in Computing Science and is the founder of the Maritime Cyber Threats Research Group.
Outside the University, Kevin is a dedicated practitioner of Aikido, heading a charitable organisation teaching the art in the UK and the US.
Currently supervising 5 PhD students
Applied cyber-security
Kevin's research is helping to transform the way global shipping fleets manage cyber security
Investigating marine cyber threats and researching solutions
An established inter-disciplinary research group at the University of Plymouth, comprising staff primarily from the School of Engineering, Computing and Mathematics but drawing upon staff from across the Institution
( Room 007, Smeaton, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA +44 1752 584502 kevin.jones@plymouth.ac.uk
t l

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/marine-litter/policy-impact:
Pioneering microplastics researcher awarded the Blue Planet Prize (2023)
United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) accreditation granted to The University (2023)
Volvo Environment Prize for raising societal awareness of global ocean microplastics (2022)
Queen’s Anniversary Prize for world-leading microplastics discovery research (2019)
University scientists recognised in Natural Environment Research Council Impact Awards (2018)

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/cmar:
The Coastal Marine Applied Research (CMAR) consultancy aims to support the appropriate management of coastal, marine and estuarine resources and activities, focusing on coastal processes and marine physics to understand and predict the behaviour of these environment systems.
We have extensive experience working with national and international organisations and policymakers to provide expert guidance and bespoke analysis.
This is underpinned by the world-leading research from the University’s Coastal Processes Research Group and offers you a gateway to wider academic and technical expertise.
We provide a first-class data collection, analysis and modelling service tailored to your needs, helping to address important issues in the coastal and marine environment and enhancing the current methods of maintaining and protecting these locations.
Our specialisms:
The collection, analysis and interpretation of air-, land- and sea-based coastal survey data
Numerical modelling of coastal processes and marine physics
Making in-situ measurements of hydrodynamics (waves, currents and tides) and sediment transport processes in coastal, estuarine, nearshore and shallow marine environments, and conducting advanced analysis and interpretation of these data
Providing expert, research-informed advice on physical issues in the coastal zone
The breadth of collective expertise and advanced equipment base available through CMAR is unique in the UK.
As part of the University’s Marine Institute , we are embedded in an interdisciplinary hub of research spanning marine ecology and conservation, sea-bed mapping, marine physics coastal geography, policy experts, environmental psychology and beyond.
The consultancy operates closely with the University’s Coastal Processes Research Group , the largest group of coastal researchers in the UK that have an international reputation as leading experts in recording and predicting coastal behaviour, through pioneering fieldwork and developing ground-breaking numerical models.
We frequently work with the Marine Physics Research Group , COAST Engineering Group , and colleagues in the Sustainable Earth Institute , as well as partners in our extensive network of collaborating organisations and universities.
CMAR has a small number of internships available each year, providing hands-on industry level experience with data analysis and field work.
If you have a marine or coastal science background and experience in analysing complex data sets, get in touch with a CV to find out more.
cmar@plymouth.ac.uk
+44 1752 586177
School of Biological and Marine Sciences, B323, Portland Square Building, University of Plymouth, Drake Circus, Plymouth, Devon
PL4 8AA
@pu_cmar
Marine Institute
Enterprise Solutions
Marine and ocean degree courses, research and education in Britain’s Ocean City

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/penctu/swims:
Visit our newsletter archive
UK Clinical Research Collaboration
NIHR
Research Design Service-South West

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/hepatology-research-group:
2017 report (PDF)
2018 report (PDF)
2019 report (PDF)
2020 report (PDF)
2021 report (PDF)
2022 report (PDF)
2023 report (PDF)

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/primarycare:
Contact the primary care team at primarycare@plymouth.ac.uk or +44 1752 764260 .
Primary Care Plymouth Room N14 ITTC Building Davy Road Plymouth Science Park Derriford Plymouth PL6 8BX
primarycare@plymouth.ac.uk
+44 1752 764260
ITTC Building, Davy Road, Plymouth Science Park, Derriford, Plymouth, PL6 8BX
The Community and Primary Care research group is based on the university's north campus; a more detailed map is available on our campuses page .

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/history-art-history:
Internationally recognised research excellence in the fields of social and cultural history
The National Trust is embarking on the restoration of a 17th century plaster ceiling at Lanhydrock House, partnering with the University to document and interpret the narrative design
The University of Plymouth's research centre in cultural heritage – how we live with, use and understand the past through things, spaces, traditions and memory.
VIDEO: Professor Daniel Maudlin, Researcher and Lecturer in History and Cultural Heritage, takes us on an historical tour of Powderham Castle.
Professor in Early Modern British History, James Daybell, was one of the first researchers to establish the field of early modern women’s letter writing, uncovering the hidden histories of women and their roles within society.
From wooden legs to walking the plank, Dr Elaine Murphy unpacks the myths which have influenced our representation of the classic pirate
On the 80th anniversary of the arrival of American soldiers in Northern Ireland in the wake of Pearl Harbor, historian Simon Topping, has shed new light on this often-neglected story with a groundbreaking new book
Lecturer in Art History and a specialist of the Italian Renaissance, talks about his research in medieval and renaissance art
The history of collecting and curating.
Postcolonialism and art history.
Meta-painting in Western visual culture.
Political iconography and representations of sexual violence in Medieval and Renaissance Italy.
The reception of the Renaissance and Renaissance artists from 1750 to the present.
The history and practice of art historical writing in Europe in the 19th and early 20th centuries.
PhD Art History
PhD History
Recording research from across the School of Law, Humanities and Social Sciences

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/mayflower-400:
Plymouth has been the starting point for many globally significant voyages of discovery.
But few of these are better known or have provided such a lasting international legacy, as the sailing of the Mayflower almost 400 years ago.
Dr Kathryn Gray , the University’s Associate Professor in Early American Literature, explains:
Not only is the University of Plymouth involved with programming the city-wide celebrations for Mayflower 400, but we are also collaborating on a range of exciting events and ambitious projects with partners across the UK and in the US.
Pioneering initiatives which will ultimately enhance our students’ experience and academic endeavour through teaching and research.
Voyage to highlight the possibilities of autonomous ocean science The University is conducting research into marine mammals , marine plastics and ocean chemistry as part of the Mayflower Autonomous Ship project The aim is to highlight the future potential of autonomous ocean science as part of a pioneering voyage commemorating the 400th anniversary of the Mayflower .
Find out more about the Mayflower Autonomous Ship project
The University is conducting research into marine mammals , marine plastics and ocean chemistry as part of the Mayflower Autonomous Ship project
The aim is to highlight the future potential of autonomous ocean science as part of a pioneering voyage commemorating the 400th anniversary of the Mayflower .
The passengers onboard the original Mayflower had little idea of what they were about to endure, and would have had no idea that their journey, and their experiences of settlement, would become a narrative of national origins.
They certainly couldn’t have contemplated that 400 years on, a vessel sharing the name Mayflower would make the same journey, without a single soul on board, and powered not by sails but by solar power.
400 years later, Dr Kathryn Gray, Associate Professor in Early American Literature, reflects on our assumptions about the Mayflower 's voyage and its consequences.
Read Kathryn's opinion piece on the Mayflower
A project to build Plymouth’s creative industries and nurture creative people power has been awarded £3.5 million by the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport.
The University has partnered with Plymouth City Council, Destination Plymouth, Mayflower 400, Plymouth College of Art and Real Ideas to create iMayflower.
The money is part of a £20m Cultural Development Fund for the regions announced by Culture Secretary Jeremy Wright.
An additional £750,000 has been awarded to Mayflower 400, giving a boost to creative events and activities planned around the event – iMayflower’s legacy is intended to go well beyond 2020.
Read further details in the full report .
Pilgrim Fathers Lecture Established by the Plymouth Law Society and hosted by the University of Plymouth and Plymouth City Council, the lecture series, which commemorates the Pilgrim Fathers voyage to America in 1620 and embodies the themes of freedom and human rights, has become a celebrated annual event in the legal profession calendar, attracting current and past Lord Chancellors, Lord Justices of Appeal and Lords of Appeal.
For 2019, Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales, The Right Honourable The Lord Burnett of Maldon was the latest in a long list of distinguished members of the legal profession to present the lecture.
Find out more about the series
Established by the Plymouth Law Society and hosted by the University of Plymouth and Plymouth City Council, the lecture series, which commemorates the Pilgrim Fathers voyage to America in 1620 and embodies the themes of freedom and human rights, has become a celebrated annual event in the legal profession calendar, attracting current and past Lord Chancellors, Lord Justices of Appeal and Lords of Appeal.
Study opportunities If you're a student from the USA thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need on our dedicated country guide page .
From entry requirements and funding to discovering alumni stories, we've tried to provide all the information you will need if you are thinking about coming to study with us from the United States of America.
If you're a student from the USA thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need on our dedicated country guide page .
Degree apprenticeships Launched by the Government in March 2015, Degree Apprenticeships offer employers the chance to attract emerging talent or harness the skills of their current workforce by providing an alternative route to traditional university study.
Find out more about Degree Apprenticeship opportunities at Plymouth
Launched by the Government in March 2015, Degree Apprenticeships offer employers the chance to attract emerging talent or harness the skills of their current workforce by providing an alternative route to traditional university study.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/iccmr:
Quantum computing in music and the arts
AI for music
Music composition
Algorithmic composition
Music technology
Song of the Sea: listening to climate change in action
Contemporary and experimental music concerts
QuTune
Harnessing the impact of quantum computing technology on the music industry
London Sinfonietta premieres Qubism at Kings Place
Sounding Qubits: Quantum computing and musical creativity
eduardo.miranda@plymouth.ac.uk
+44 1752 586255
University of Plymouth, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/news/world-first-study-to-revolutionise-care-of-endangered-species:
8 August 2025
As our planet faces what scientists call a 'sixth mass extinction', zoos may become the last hope for many animals.
But until now, many animal care decisions are made without ready access to the available scientific evidence, a gap this project aims to bridge.
Dr Anaelle Lemasson Lemasson Post-doctoral Research Fellow in the School of Biological and Marine Sciences, who initially led the research
Several species – including the Arabian oryx and Przewalski's horse – exist today solely because of zoo breeding programmes.
This evidence map will allow animal managers to base critical decisions on current scientific knowledge.
Dr Andy Bowkett, Conservation Projects Manager for Wild Planet Trust at Paignton Zoo, who conceived the project with Professor William Sutherland at Cambridge
Study BSc (Hons) Zoology
More about the School of Biological and Marine Sciences
See more about our Strategic Research Institutes

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/news/south-west-mps-support-campaign-for-more-dental-training-places:
We are extremely grateful to MPs from across the South West for their support in helping us realise our ambition to train more dentists.
We are already making a significant contribution to the dental workforce right across the region, and have a proven track record in training dentists committed to serving their communities.
But we could do more.
Professor Ewen McColl Head of Peninsula Dental School
We MPs across the South West are seeing the real human impact of the dentistry crisis every day; people going without care, children unable to access appointments, and even cases of dangerous DIY dentistry.
Expanding dental training where it’s most needed is a practical step to help tackle this workforce shortage, alongside reform of the broken NHS dental contract.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/news/university-of-plymouth-shortlisted-for-two-green-gown-awards:
The University placed 84th globally – and 15th in the UK – in the 2025 Times Higher Education Impact Rankings
Sustainability: on the path to net zero
See our sustainability policies and strategies

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/whats-on/autobiographical-processing-and-psychopathology-conference-2026:
Roland Levinsky Building, University of Plymouth
appconference2026@plymouth.ac.uk
Conference location:
Roland Levinsky Building, University of Plymouth, Drake Circus, Plymouth PL4 8AA

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/ref2021/science:
In the face of global climate change, how does science begin to understand its impacts on a planetary level?
When so many changes are observed at a local or regional level, how do we begin to assess the degree to which human-driven climate change has itself influenced long-term changes in both natural and managed systems, and to species and continents?
These are the fundamental questions that have shaped the work of Professor Camille Parmesan and colleagues in Biological Sciences.
Their research has shown that a global-scale assessment is possible only through meta-analyses of many species distributed across different continents and oceans.
This has resulted in the development of a new approach, one that uses inductive reasoning – drawing general principles from a body of observations based on multiple, independent lines of evidence.
Using this approach, they’ve shown that wild species have been impacted to a much greater degree than previously thought, and that marine systems have had a stronger response than terrestrial ones.
They have also concluded that these biological changes have had a negative impact on human health and food security.
Their research has provided key evidence for determination of a 2°C limit for "dangerous" climate change in the Copenhagen Accord (2009) and again for the Paris Accords (2015) under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC).
Research by Parmesan and others has also formed the evidence basis for multiple legal proceedings against the United States Government, at least one of which is destined for the U.S.
Supreme Court and has the power to change Federal laws on greenhouse gas emissions.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/abigail-mcquatters-gollop:
Associate Head of School - International School of Biological and Marine Sciences (Faculty of Science and Engineering)
Abigail's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
Abigail is one of the UK’s top experts with a global reputation for converting science into useful evidence for policymakers.
Implementing an ecosystem approach for marine conservation policy
Abigail discusses her journey from land-locked Ohio to advising governments and policymakers on effective marine environment management.
'I trust we will see a day when we fulfil our ambition around sustainable fishing and marine conservation, underpinned by strong marine policies holistically managing the UK’s amazing marine ecosystems.'
Marine Conservation Research Group research project
( B428 Portland Square, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA +44 1752 586126 abigail.mcquatters-gollop@plymouth.ac.uk
t i l

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/alison-raby:
Professor in Environmental Fluid Mechanics School of Engineering, Computing and Mathematics (Faculty of Science and Engineering)
Alison's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
Leader of the COAST Engineering Research Group
In recent years my teaching portfolio has included Coastal Engineering, Advanced Hydraulic Engineering, Interdisciplinary Design, and leading the MSc dissertation projects.
COP26: Examining the evidence for global action
Alison is taking part in a series of international missions with Earthquake Engineers Field Investigation Teams (EEFIT).
“Ever since childhood, I’ve been inspired by waves.
I grew up by the sea and spent time in and on the sea – swimming, sailing and surfing.
I’m awestruck by the beauty and force of waves, and the destruction they can cause.”
Alison is an expert on the interactions of extreme waves with coastal structures.
Provision of tools, techniques and international standards guidance to those responsible for the maintenance of historic rock lighthouses under current and future predicted extreme wave loading
A leading team of coastal and ocean engineering researchers carrying out both fundamental and applied research.
A collaboration with UCL and Exeter, examining wave loading on exposed rock lighthouses, and their subsequent structural response.
( MB305, Marine Building, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA +44 1752 586133 alison.raby@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/carl-roobottom:
Honorary Consultant - Radiology Peninsula Medical School (Faculty of Health)
Chair of Radiology
I am involved in development of the undergraduate curriculum, particularly the utilisation of cross sectional imaging to deliver anatomy training.
I am head of the Radiology Academy; a postgraduate school on the Derriford site which delivers all aspect of training to post graduate doctors to become consultants.
The purpose-built facility has a 140-seat lecture theatre, uses a number of novel teaching methods (including simulators) and was described by Marin Marshall (Deputy Chief Medical Officer) as a "shining light for all specialities" in his assessment in 2008.
Improving safety, health outcomes and cost effectiveness in patients with chest pain using Computed Tomographic Cardiac Angiography (CTCA)
( x-ray east, level 6, Derriford Hospital, Derriford Road, Plymouth, PL14 3QY +44 1752 792185 carl.roobottom@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/deborah-greaves:
Professor in Ocean Engineering School of Engineering, Computing and Mathematics (Faculty of Science and Engineering)
Deborah's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
Enabling the growth of the emerging Offshore and Marine Renewable Energy industry in the UK through increased technological understanding
Deborah is one of the country’s foremost experts in offshore renewable energy
Professor Deborah Greaves
A leading team of coastal and ocean engineering researchers carrying out both fundamental and applied research
G7: Examining the evidence
( Room 301a, Marine Building, Drakes Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA +44 1752 586122 deborah.greaves@plymouth.ac.uk
t

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/eduardo-miranda:
Professor in Computer Music School of Art, Design and Architecture (Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Business)
Eduardo's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
I am a composer and Professor in Computer Music.
I run the Interdisciplinary Centre for Computer Music Research (ICCMR).
Artificial Intelligence (AI) is shaping the future of many professions, and the creative industry is no exception.
My research examines how to harness AI for creativity and educate future generations of AI-ready professionals.
To study for a doctorate under my supervision , please do not hesitate to contact me to discuss your interests.
I am an experienced PhD supervisor (Director of Studies).
I have guided dozens of doctoral students to successful completion and have considerable experience with post-graduate external examinations.
My doctoral graduates have secured jobs all over the world, from Asia (e.g., Education University of Hong Kong) and North America (e.g., McGill University, Canada), to Europe (e.g., University of the Arts, Berlin), and in a wide range of companies such as Arm microprocessors, L-Acoustics and the Met Office.
I have been developing and composing music using AI since the 1980s.
In 1995, I defended what is likely the first PhD thesis in the UK on developing AI for music at the University of Edinburgh.
I championed the application of neo-Darwinian evolutionary algorithms to model the origins of music and the development of bio-inspired computational models for musical creativity.
Recently, I made the headlines of Forbes Magazine as a pioneer in leveraging AI with Quantum Computing for music.
Within the last decade or so I have raised over £5M worth of research grants to develop my ambition to put the University of Plymouth at the forefront of Digital Health and Music Technology.
Today, we are internationally recognised for spearheading the field of Brain-Computer Music Interfacing and AI applications to support people living with dementia.
Fun facts : I have composed a number of symphonies and an opera and have had the privilege to share the stage with the BBC Concert Orchestra, BBC Singers, London Sinfonietta, Jarvis Cocker, American beatboxer Butterscotch, and a few other great artists.
Furthermore, I am an NFT artist and I was the first classical music composer ever to give a concert in the Metaverse.
In 2015, I made the headlines worldwide for improvising music with a single-cell organism .
(Check this example in The Guardian.
)
Follow me on LinkedIn for news on my research and outreach activity.
Successful PhD completions:
2024, University of Plymouth, Ryan Thomas Green .
PhD Thesis: Towards Elucidating Psychological Arousal in Response to Music Theatre.
2023, University of Plymouth, Jared Drayton .
PhD Thesis: An Evolutionary Algorithms Approach to Physical Modelling of Vocal Synthesis.
2022, University of Plymouth, Satvik Venkatesh .
PhD Thesis: Deep Learning for Audio Segmentation and Intelligent Remixing.
2022, University of Plymouth, Candida Borges da Silva .
PhD Thesis: Immersive Installation: “Transeuntis Mundi”.
2019, University of Plymouth, Nicholas Reeves .
PhD Thesis: From the Harmony of the Spheres to Spherical Harmonies: The Potential of Wave-based Morphogenic Processes for Musical and Architectural Composition.
2019, University of Plymouth, Nuria B.
Filella .
PhD Thesis: Data Sonification in Creative Practice.
2018, University of Plymouth, Michael Mcloughlin .
PhD Thesis: The Development and Application of Computational Multi-Agent Models for Investigating the Cultural Transmission and Cultural Evolution of Humpback Whale Song.
2017, University of Plymouth, Aurelien Antoine .
PhD Thesis: An Investigation into Using Artificial Intelligence to Aid Composition of Timbre using Orchestral Instruments.
2017, University of Plymouth, Federico Visi , PhD Thesis: Methods and Technologies for the Analysis and Interactive Use of Body Movements in Instrumental Music Performance.
2016, University of Plymouth, Edward Braund .
PhD Thesis: Unconventional Computing and Music: An Investigation into Harnessing Physarum polycephalum.
2016, University of Plymouth, Joel Eaton .
PhD Thesis: Brain-Computer Music Interfacing: Designing Practical Systems for Creative Applications.
2014, University of Plymouth, Hans Holger Rutz .
PhD Thesis: Tracing the Compositional Process.
2013, University of Plymouth, Nikolas Valsamakis .
PhD Thesis: Non-Standard Sound Synthesis with Dynamic Models.
2013, University of Plymouth, Christian Dimpker .
PhD Thesis: Extended Notation: The Depiction of the Unconventional.
2012, University of Plymouth, Noris Mohd Norowi .
PhD Thesis: AnArtificial Intelligence Approach to Concatenative Sound Synthesis.
2012, University of Plymouth, Daniel Livingstone .
PhD Thesis: Design Strategies for Adaptive Social Composition: Collaborative SoundEnvironments.
2012, University of Plymouth, Joao Martins .
PhD Thesis: Emergent Rhythmic Structures asCultural Phenomena Driven by Social Pressure in a Society of Artificial Agents.
2011, University of Plymouth, Alexis Kirke .
PhD Thesis: Application of Intermediate Multi-Agent Systems to IntegratedAlgorithmic Composition and Expressive Performance of Music.
2010, University of Plymouth, Peter Beyls .
PhD Thesis: Music as Emergent Complex Behaviour.
2010, University of Plymouth, Leandro Costalonga .
PhD Thesis: Biomechanical Modelling of Musical Performance: A Case Study of theGuitar
2009, University of Plymouth, Marcelo Gimenes .
PhD Thesis: An Approach to Machine Development of Musical Ontogeny.
2001, University of Glasgow, Alexander Duncan .
PhD Thesis: EEG Pattern Classification for the Brain-Computer Musical Interface.
1999, University of Glasgow, Kenneth McAlpine .
PhD Thesis: Application of Dynamical Systems to Music Composition.
Eduardo is an unrivalled visionary who marries accomplished musical composition with advanced technological innovations to change lives
Making music with brain signals to improve the quality of life of severely motor-impaired individuals
Discover how Eduardo's desire to bridge science and art inspires his pioneering research in computer music
Eduardo discusses his pioneering work in music neurotechnology, improving the health and wellbeing for people with some of the most complex and debilitating illnesses
Cutting-edge research in music technology and creativity
Starring Sarah Watts – Bass Clarinet, Omar Costa Hamido – Electroacoustics and Eduardo Reck
( Room 302, The House, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA +44 1752 586255 eduardo.miranda@plymouth.ac.uk
l

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/gerd-masselink:
Professor of Coastal Geomorphology School of Biological and Marine Sciences (Faculty of Science and Engineering)
Gerd's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
2022–2026  Madeline Gee – ‘Shifting Seas – Ecological adaptation to changing rates of Sea Level Rise
2020–2024  Aikaterina Konstantinou – Coastal dynamics from space
2019–2024  Josie Alice-Kirby – Application of Coastal Change Management Areas (CCMAs) for coastal adaptation to climate change impacts in SW England (DoS)
2021–2022  Oak McMahon - Natural adaptive capability of coral reef islands to sea-level rise and implications for future human occupation (DoS) (no completion)
2017–2022  Anna Persson – Physical drivers of nursery function in juvenile flatfishes (no completion)
2016–2021  Erin King – Modelling sediment exchange between the beach and the inner continental shelf
2016–2020  Paul Bayle – Coastal resilience under sea-level rise (based at Bath, UK)
2016–2020  Mark Wiggins – Coastal cell response to a changing wave climate using autonomous aerial surveying
2016–2019  Megan Tuck – Dynamics of coral reef islands (based at Auckland, New Zealand)
2015–2019  Nieves Garcia Valiente – Sediment exchange between beach and inner shelf (DoS)
2014–2018  Olivier Burvingt – Beach response to extreme storms along the SW coast of England (DoS)
2015–2017  Rafael Jesús Bergillos – Multi-scale dynamics of mixed sand and gravel deltaic coasts (based at Granada, Spain)
2013–2017  Sebastian Pitman – Automatic Rip Current Detection (based at Southampton, UK)
2013–2017  Kris Inch – Extreme storm dynamics on sandy beaches
2011–2015  Claire Early – Field observations of wave induced coastal cliff erosion, Cornwall, UK (DoS)
2011–2015  Pedro Almeida – Swash Zone Dynamics of coarse-Grained Beaches during Energetic Wave Conditions (DoS)
2011–2015  Robert McCall – Modelling gravel beach storm response using XBeach (DoS)
2011–2014  Anissia White – Managing the Retreat: Understanding the Transition to Salt Marsh in Coastal Realignment Project
2010–2016  Antony Thorpe – Sediment Dynamics in Rip Currents
2010–2014  Saul Reynolds – Tidal Dune Dynamics (no completion)
2009–2013  Suha Zoozi – Estuarine Pollution Dynamics in Agricultural River Basins
2008–2012  Tim Poate – Impact of Wave Hub on Shoreline Processes and Beach Morphology
2007–2011  Alison Nock – An ARC Marine Decision Support System for Coastal Flooding (no completion)
2007–2010  Amaia Ruiz de Alegria Arzaburu – Measuring and Modelling Annual, Seasonal and Storm-Induced Morphological Response on a Gravel Beach (DoS)
2006–2010  Tim Scott – Classification of UK Beaches and Associated Nearshore Hazards (DoS)
2004–2008  Daniel Buscombe – Morpho-Sediment Dynamics of Gravel Beaches (DoS)
2002–2005  Martin Austin – Swash, Groundwater and Sediment Transport Processes on Gravel Beaches (DoS)
2000–2004  Darren Evans – Swash on Steep and Shallow Beaches (DoS)
2000–2004  Selma van Houwelingen – Spatial and Temporal Variability in Ridge and Runnel Morphology along the North Lincolnshire Coast, England (DoS)
2000–2004  Aafke Tonk – Longshore Sediment Transport on Low-Energy Beaches (DoS)
Enhancing coastal resilience to extreme storms and sea-level rise
Informing on beach hazards to improve beach safety and help saves
Gerd is one of the world’s leading authorities on the coastal impacts of extreme storms.
Rip currents, storm chasing and beach erosion with a remarkable team of researchers
An internationally recognised group of researchers, specialising in field studies and numerical modelling of coastal processes
Applying research to deliver environmental, economic and social benefits to the South West
Discover the reasons why some areas of the UK may get stormier and how chasing storms can help protect our coastlines
( Room 115, Reynolds, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA +44 1752 585902 gerd.masselink@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/helen-lloyd-2:
Associate Head of School for Internationalisation School of Psychology (Faculty of Health)
Helen's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
Professor of Applied Social and Cultural Psychology.
I am a mixed methods researcher focused on utilising action and design informed research to create health and social improvements for marginalised, seldom heard or stigmatised groups.
My research to date has explored how notions of race, ethnicity and identity influence health behaviour and the experiences and outcomes of care and medical treatment.
I am particularly interested in how structural factors interact to shape access to care and health inequality.
My multi-disciplinary approach to research and teaching blends concepts from psychology with anthropology and the sociology of medicine, and incorporates aspects of creative and design arts and humanities.
I have led a successful funding application to the NIHR HS&DR programme to develop a community based peer led intervention to support the mental health of refugees.
Recent completed projects also include a successful project funded by Gamble Aware to explore the interface between online gaming and gambling related harms, which forms part of my emerging interest in digital harm.
Prior to joining the school of Psychology I spent 5 years working for the south west Peninsula Collaboration for Applied Heath and Care focusing on complex interventions and experiences of care.
During this time I developed the Person Centred Coordinated Care (P3C) collaborative.
This applied health services work continues, and is focused on improving the experiences and outcomes of care for people with long term conditions.
Person centred co-ordinated care: Reforming national health policy and accelerating national and international care delivery
( A206, Portland Square, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA +44 1752 584815 helen.lloyd-1@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/jackie-andrade:
Professor in Psychology School of Psychology (Faculty of Health)
Jackie's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
Professor of Psychology
As one of the original creators of functional imagery training (FIT), I am interested in the psychological processes underpinning human motivation.
My research has shown the importance of mental imagery for desire, from problematic drug and food cravings to motivation for healthy behaviours.
FIT builds on this research by combining motivational interviewing with multisensory mental imagery training to create desire for behavioural steps towards a goal.
Our weight loss trial showed that FIT is five times more effective than motivational interviewing.
Participants who received 4 hours of FIT loss an average of 6kg in 12 months.
My current projects are testing FIT for managing anxiety, building resilience at work (with Despina Djama), and supporting healthy sexual relationships (with Lou Crichton).
I am also interested in psychological aspects of anaesthesia.
I talk about my research on anaesthesia and weight loss here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AFTywtZBdNc
To sign up for our FIT practitioner and other healthcare training courses, please visit https://functionalimagery.org/services
Sarah O'Rourke The design and implementation of group based Functional Imagery Training for weight loss
Karol Nedza The effectiveness of imagery use in motivating physical activity and exercise
Grace Baptie Birth trauma: A mixed-methods investigation
Joana Galvao Gomes da Silva Creative technologies for behaviour change
Jonathan Rhodes Functional Imagery Training to increase resilience in athletes
Sophie Homer Social anxiety and paranoia: A mixed methods investigation
Linda Solbrig: Functional Imagery Training, a novel, theory-based motivational intervention for weight-loss
Annegret Schneider: The psychological cycle of dental anxiety
Jessica Skorka-Brown: Cognitive processes in craving: from the laboratory to the real world (2010-2014)
Sophie Pettit: Cognitive effects of Hormone Replacement Therapy (part-time, 2008-2013)
Christine Boomsma: Role of mental imagery in motivation for sustainable behaviours (2009-2012)
Helen Batey: Intrusive thoughts and mindfulness in deliberate self-harm (2007-2010)
Joanna Blackburn: Craving in eating disorders (2005-2009)
Lisa-Marie Berry : Cognition and craving (2004-2008)
Steven Lilley: Eye movements and traumatic recollections (DClinPsy, 2002-2005)
Lynne Barker : Implicit cognition following frontal brain injury
Catherine Deeprose: Learning during anaesthesia (1999-2002)
Nathalie Panabokke: Role of visual imagery in cigarette craving (2001-2004)
Michael Bywaters: The role of affect in vividness of imagery (1999-2003)
Harshada Patel: Children’s memory for colour
Yuet Yee Yim: Visuo-spatial working memory
Alison Rowlands: Effect of eye movements on vividness of traumatic imagery (DClinPsy)
Motivational interviewing and functional imagery training
Motivation
Imagery
Health behaviour change
Changing understanding and practice in anaesthesia
Jackie Andrade is Professor in Psychology and recognised globally for her work in craving and behaviour change
Academic spotlight: Jackie Andrade, Professor in Psychology
Whether it’s reducing alcohol consumption, increasing physical activity, or promoting healthy eating, researchers at the University of Plymouth have found that mental imagery can play an integral part when it comes to changing habits.
( B232, Portland Square, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA +44 1752 584807 jackie.andrade@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/james-daybell:
Associate Dean (Research) Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Business
James's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
Associate Head of School of Humanities and Performing Arts, Research
PhD Supervision
Ian Cooper, ‘Networks, News and Communication: Political Elites and Community Relations in Elizabethan Devon’ (AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award in collaboration with Devon Record Office)
Bruna Gushurst-Moore, 'A Garden in Her Cup: Anglo-American Household Medicine, 1550-1800' (University of Plymouth Studentship)
I welcome applications from all doctoral students working on early modern social, cultural and political history; gender and material culture; letters and manuscripts; heritage and museums; and public history.
Early Modern British and European Political, Religious, Social and Cultural History
Gender and Women’s History
English Renaissance Literature
Undergraduate Modules Taught
Postgraduate Modules Taught
James was one of the first researchers to establish the field of early modern women’s letter writing, uncovering the hidden histories of women and their roles within society.
New technologies and changing lives: Histories of the Unexpected
James discusses his pioneering research into women letter writers.
'My own lived experience of being a ‘public historian’ has been shaped over the past three decades by the rise of global challenges that demand the expertise and skills of the historian to take a long view on matters.'
Gendering the Museum is a toolkit aimed at museum and heritage professionals, as well as community groups.
It provides guidance for curatorial, interpretation, programming and front-of-house staff to change the representation of gender in museums.
+44 1752 585110 james.daybell@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/jason-lowther:
Associate Professor of Law School of Law, Humanities and Social Sciences (Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Business)
Jason's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
Associate Professor in Law
Environmental Law, Tort law
Enhancing legal and policy structures for underwater heritage protection
( Room 14, 20 Portland Villas, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA +44 1752 585810 jason.lowther@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/jennifer-freeman:
Associate Head of School (Research) School of Health Professions (Faculty of Health)
Jennifer's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
My roles include:-
Associate Head of School (Research)
Chair of the School Of Health Professions Undergraduate Ethics Committee.
Teaching and curriculum development for undergraduate and masters degree programmes within the School of Health Professions.
Supervision of Masters and PhD students.
I am very happy to discuss PhD opportunities within the field of physiotherapy and rehabilitation.
L ead of the Rehabilitation Research Group (within the Peninsula Institute of Health and Care Research), which holds monthly research group meetings.
Research: My research is focused predominately within the field of neurological rehabilitation, with particular expertise in the design and implementation of clinical trials in the rehabilitation of people with Multiple Sclerosis .
Examples of recently completed / ongoing research include:
PhD awarded to:
Teaching at degree and masters level.
Supervision of masters and PhD students, using both quantitative and qualitative approaches, systematic and scoping reviews.
Improving the management of pelvic girdle dysfunction with an innovative orthosis
( 7 Portland Villas, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA +44 1752 588835 jenny.freeman@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/jonathan-marsden:
Professorship and Chair in Rehabilitation School of Health Professions (Faculty of Health)
Jonathan's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
To lead and develop research capacity in the field of rehabilitation
I currently supervise 6 postgraduate student 2 PhD students as 1st supervisor, 3 PhD students as second and an 1 Mphil student as 1st supervisor
I currently teach on the MSc in Neurological Rehabilitation at the Schools of Health Professions.
I am the lead for the "Cognition, perception and behaviour" module and contribute "sensorimotor control in neurologcal practice" and "pathomechanics and rehabilitation of gait and balance".
I also contribute to the undergraduate physiotherapy program "Neurological Physiotherapy" module
( InterCity Place, Plymouth Railway Station, North Road East,, Plymouth, PL4 6AB +44 1752 587590 jonathan.marsden@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/jon-shaw:
Head of School of Geography, Earth and Environmental Sciences School of Geography, Earth and Environmental Sciences (Faculty of Science and Engineering)
Jon's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
I am Head of the School of Geography, Earth and Environmental Sciences.
Most of my time is spent in this management role, but I continue to teach classes and conduct research in my specialist field of the geography of transport, travel and mobility.
My latest book, Towards Transport Net Zero , is published by Emerald in 2025.
My research mainly focuses upon the geographical implications of mobility / accessibility, and issues to do with transport and governance.
'Getting my hands dirty' in research terms has always been one of my favourite aspects of my job, but in management roles over the years opportunities to actually go out and do my own research have become fewer and further between.
In an attempt to put this right, together with Iain Docherty (Stirling) and Danny MacKinnon (Newcastle) I embarked upon a project about the impact of devolution on UK transport policy in which we deliberately involved no research assistants 'in the field'; interviewing the main stakeholders in this area was a fascinating process and we wrote up the results in the book Diverging Mobilities .
A follow-up focusing mainly on 'Round 2' devolution in England, Governing Mobilities , will be published by Edward Elgar once we've finished the text later in 2025, this time with our colleague David Waite (Glasgow).
Another book with Iain Docherty ( The Transport Debate ) took a completely novel approach to synthesising and presenting the work of transport and mobilities scholars through the lens of a series of familiar journeys (the commute, the school run, the holiday, etc.) made by a fictitious Anglo-Scottish family, the Smiths.
We followed this up with Transport Matters, bringing together 27 leading scholars in the transport and mobilities fields, to demonstrate the importance of transport as a means of achieving a whole range of different government policy goals from economic development to health and wellbeing.
As noted, my most recent book is Towards Transport Net Zero , the 20th volume of the Transport and Sustainability serties published by Emerald.
Both the book and the series I co-edit with Stephen Ison (De Montfort) and Maria Attard (Malta).
The book brings together editors and key contributors from across the T&S series to set out state of the art research and thinking on the subject of transport decarbonisation, and identify credible policy approaches towards net zero in a sector that generates around a quarter of all greenhouse gas emissions.
In addition to these books and around 50 journal articles (that have been funded by grants from various sources including UKRI and the EU), I have provided three Impact Case Studies, one of which, with Andrew Seedhouse of Smart Applications Management, was judged by the REF 2014 panel to be 4*.
We obtained more than £4m of government funding to help roll out the nationwide introduction of 'smart' ticketing as a means of making bus transport more appealing.
This is particularly difficult in provincial Britain because of the deregulated structure of the bus sector outside of London.
In my career I have taught numerous aspects of human geography.
Because my PhD focused on transport and travel issues, I have always been involved in teaching Transport Geography modules, but my time at the University of Idaho in the 1990s gave me a lifelong love of the American West.
Over the years I've written classroom-based modules on the USA and set up a field trip to the Pacific North West, a variant of which has run most years since 2002.
At the moment I teach on three undergraduate modules:
GEES1102 People and Place
A wide-ranging module that exposes students to a variety of topics studied by geographers and the different ways we go about studying them.
I teach the political and economic geography sections of the module, dealing with ideas of states, nations, territory, governance and state restructuring, electoral geography, firms, labour and world trade.
GEES2102 Transport, Travel and Mobilities
I co-teach on this module which covers different ways of looking at transport, travel and mobility.
We identify where people, goods and information go, and explain when, how and why they go there.
We look at the significance of everyday experiences while ‘on the move’, as well as the mobility of specific groups of people and things.
GEES2109 Fieldwork in Geography: The Changing American West
This module involves between 20 and 40 students boarding a plane to Seattle to experience and learn about the Pacific Northwest for 10 days.
We split the trip into two parts: in the first few days we investigate a a number of different geographic themes in Washington and Oregon, before the students divide into groups of 4-5 to undertake a project of their own design.
Delivering smart ticketing in Great Britain
Some people like to live in densely packed cities, with lots going on.
Others prefer exactly the opposite, enjoying the tranquillity of the countryside in a small village.
Professor of Transport Geography Jon Shaw has received an Erskine Fellowship from the University of Canterbury
Transport Matters is the third in a series co-edited by Jon Shaw, Professor of Transport Geography
( A532 Portland Square, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA +44 1752 585963 jon.shaw@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/andrew-seedhouse:
Director of Transport School of Geography, Earth and Environmental Sciences (Faculty of Science and Engineering)
( Room 107, Kirkby Lodge, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA +44 1752 585773 andrew.seedhouse@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/judy-edworthy:
Emeritus Professor School of Psychology (Faculty of Health)
Judy's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
Judy Edworthy is Professor of Applied Psychology.
Her two main areas of research interest are the applied cognitive psychology of sound and the psychology of music.
In terms of the applied cognitive psychology of sound, her main interest is in the design, application and underlying theory surrounding the use of alarms in both everyday environments and specific high-workload applications.
Here, she carries out both research and commercial design work.
Her second area of research is in the cognitive psychology of music, and her current interest lies in the aesthetics of popular song, particularly the impact of complexity, repetition, and song structure on the enjoyment of popular song.
She also has interests and publications in the psychology of visual warnings.
She has been a member of several alarms standards committees, has been Chair of the Team 2 ('Noise and Communication) of the International Congress on the Biological Effects of Noise.
She has served as Associate Editor for Ergonomics, as well as being on the editorial board, has been on the editorial board of the Journal of Experimental Psychology: Applied and is currently on the editorial board of Human Factors.
She is also a member of the EPSRC's peer review college.
She has attracted research funding from a range of bodies including the EPSRC, the ESRC, the MRC, the HSE, the DTI, Qinetic, the Laboratory of the Government Chemist, the Rail Safety and Standards Board, the NHS, and carries out alarm design work from time to time for both public and private sector organisations.
Elizabeth Hellier, PhD, 1991
Sarah Loxley, MPhil, 1991
Christina Meredith, PhD, 1995
Susannah Browne, MPhil, 1995
Helen Harris, PhD, 2004
Kirsteen Aldrich, PhD, 2005
Brahim Hamidcharef, PhD, 2005 Alexandra Costello, 2009 Elizabeth Gabe-Thomas, 2012
Developing more effective and meaningful auditory alarms for a global medical device safety standard
+44 1752 584818 J.Edworthy@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/julian-stander:
Associate Professor in Mathematics and Statistics School of Engineering, Computing and Mathematics (Faculty of Science and Engineering)
I have supervised six successful PhD students.
I have supervised many Italian project students.
I am a Senior Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
I was delighted to be Runner Up for the SSTAR Postgraduate Teacher/Supervisor of the Year Award 2017/18.
I teach a range of modules and short courses.
I particularly enjoy MATH3702 Statistical Data Modelling and I pleased that we now work with Stan software to perform Bayesian inference.
I am interested in teaching Data Science, using R to improve teaching and learning, visualising student assessment and feedback data, and communicating statistical and scientific ideas to a variety of audience.
I looked after the BSc (Hons) Exchange: Maths/Stats.
Further details are available upon request.
Thank you.
Increased pupil and public participation with the mathematical sciences through school taster days and Plymouth Argyle Football Club
( A312, Portland Square, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA +44 1752 586850 J.Stander@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/katharine-willis:
Professor of Smart Cities and Communities School of Art, Design and Architecture (Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Business)
Katharine's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
I am Associate Head of School (Research) for Art, Design and Architecture and a Professor in Smart Cities and Communities
My research expertise includes smart cities, smart villages, digital technologies and the role of space and place.
I am co-author with Alex Aurigi of two key Routledge volumes on Smart Cities, and in 2015 published Netspaces: Space and Place in a Networked World.
My approach to smart cities is focused on the community in the spaces and the need to build from the ground-up to create inclusive environments.
I have published widely on the topic.
I am currently working on a range of funded research projects that explore how new technologies can create ways for people and communities to engage with place, with a particular focus on social and digital inclusion.
I was Interim Head of School of Art, Design and Architecture from 2021-2022, and previously REF UoA 13 Coordinator (2015-2022) in the School of Art, Design and Architecture and Co-Chair of the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee (EDIC) within the School of Art, Design and Architecture (2019-2022).
I am a Visiting Research Fellow, The Centre for Urban Science and Progress (CUSP), Kings College London.
From January 2024 to January 2025 I will be a Visiting Fellow at the Western Academy for Advanced Research at Western University, Canada.
Katharine is a leading voice in the exploration of our interactions with and perceptions of our spatial environment and technology, developing innovative ways of creating inclusive urban spaces through new technologies
Achieving social inclusion through digital placemaking
Katharine has drawn upon her interdisciplinary roots to become one of the country’s leading voices on how people interact with technology and space
Moving towards creating a more inclusive, diverse and sustainable urban environment
Marine Conservation Research Group project
Community Digital Hubs
+44 1752 585191 katharine.willis@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/kathryn-napier-gray:
Associate Professor (Reader) in Early American Literature School of Law, Humanities and Social Sciences (Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Business)
Kathryn's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
With research specialisms in early American literary studies, and the literatures of colonial New England especially, my work responds to questions of literary form, transatlantic print culture, and the politics of the cultural change and transformation in the colonial and indigenous landscapes of North America.
More recently, I've developed research and teaching interests in early American environmental literatures and natural history.
My undergraduate teaching includes modules on American literature, including American crime fiction, and I have supervised, postgraduate projects on narratives of cultural encounter, dystopian fiction, narratives of gender in early modern and contemporary fiction, eighteenth-century letters, contemporary genre fiction and war poetry.
I supervise projects in creative writing and literary studies.
As part of the 400th anniversary of the Mayflower sailing in 2020, I supported the planning and delivery of a number of public projects, including the prize-winning Legend and Legacy exhibition at The Box (Plymouth’s Museum and Art Gallery) and the National Trust’s Tide and Time curatorial response.
Postgraduate students have had opportunities to participate in these projects as part of their research training.
In January 2020, I organised and hosted a day-long event showcasing research-led Mayflower-related projects at the University of Plymouth’s Research Festival .
My research, conferences and other research projects have been funded by the British Academy, the Arts and Humanities Research Council, the British Association for American Studies, Californian Institute for Technology, the University of Glasgow and the University of Plymouth, as well as the US Embassy Small Grants scheme.
As part of my research, I've worked with archival resources from the American Antiquarian Society (Mass.), the Huntington Library (LA), The Royal Society, The Bodleian, and the British Library.
I was Research Co-ordinator and PGR lead for my Research Unit (UoA) 27 for REF 2021.
I’m S trategic Lead for Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Business (UoP) and I'm Chair of the Research Ethics and Integrity, sub-panel for Arts and Humanities.
I have 3 PhD completions and 5 current PhD students.
I have examined 4 PhD projects.
Undergraduate teaching
My core teaching interests are in American literature, and my two option modules, The American Novel and American Crime Writing, are part of the undergraduate English and Creative Writing programmes.
In these modules students read some classic American texts, from Nathaniel Hawthorne and F.Scott Fitzgerald in American Novel, to writers like Dashiell Hammett, Raymond Chandler and James Ellroy in American Crime.
I also lead the work-based learning module, Working with Literature, which gives students the opportunity to complete a placement as part of their undergraduate programme.
The module also helps students articulate their subject-specific and transferable skills.
Graduate teaching
I contribute to the MA English and the MA Environmental Humanities with a module that explores recent American fiction in the context of environmental change.
The module, 'Natural Knowledge and Narrative Knowing: Literatures of Nature in North America', seeks to contrast Euro-American models of natural knowledge with Indigenous North American knowledge systems.
I am interested in postgraduate research projects that are shaped around questions of cultural transformation and change, specifically in relation to print cultures, nature and the environment, settler colonialism, and indigenous cultures in the colonial Atlantic world.
Mayflower 400: Decolonising cultural heritage and transforming narratives of remembering
( Room 004, 6 Portland Villas, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA kathryn.gray@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/kerry-howell-2:
Professor of Deep-Sea Ecology School of Biological and Marine Sciences (Faculty of Science and Engineering)
Kerry's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
I am deputy programme leader for the BSc (Hons) Marine Biology and Oceanography at the University of Plymouth.
I am also an active academic researcher working on various topics related to conservation and sustainable management of the deep sea and High Seas, and marine habitat mapping.
Kerry has a global reputation for providing critical evidence and innovation solutions for the protection of deep-sea habitats.
Advancing spatial management of the seep sea
Those numbers alone offer an insight into the critical importance of understanding what is in these hidden environments.
But they don’t even scratch the surface when it comes to the challenges scientists face in trying to achieve that.
The deep sea supports our healthy planet, and in turn support us.
Our very existence depends on a healthy, functioning deep sea environment, so we must do better at looking after it.
( Room 622, Davy Building, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA +44 1752 584544 kerry.howell@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/marie-bryce:
Senior Research Fellow (CAMERA) Peninsula Medical School (Faculty of Health)
Marie's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
Senior Research Fellow, based in Peninsula Medical School and Peninsula Dental School, working as part of the Collaboration for the Advancement of Medical Education Research (CAMERa) .
I lead the CAMERa research group's professional regulation research theme.
My research crosses multiple disciplines including health policy, health services research, and clinical education.
I am a qualitative social scientist, and I design, lead and collaborate across a range of study types including qualitative, quantitative and mixed methods studies, and systematic, narrative and realist reviews.
My current and recent research centres on:
I am happy to supervise postgraduate students (PGR & PGT) whose topics relate to my research interests in the healthcare workforce, professional regulation and clinical education, or involve the use of qualitative research methods.
Current PhD supervision:
Matthew Griggs, 'Cultural perceptions of prehospital care in Nepal: an analysis of the perceived barriers to providing and accessing emergency medical care.' (Director of Studies)
Ross Raymond-Jones, 'Remediating Professionalism Lapses in Undergraduate Medical Education.' (co-supervisor)
Rebecca Glanville, 'Predicting success in dental students from admissions data.' (co-supervisor)
Module Lead - CLE721DL Research Methods
BMBS SSU group facilitator MClinEd dissertation supervision
Evaluating medical revalidation to shape policy and improve doctors' experiences of regulation
+44 1752 586799 marie.bryce@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/matthew-cramp:
Chair in Hepatology Peninsula Medical School (Faculty of Health)
Matthew's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
Reducing mortality from Hepatitis C virus
matthew.cramp@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/mike-phillips:
Emeritus Professor School of Art, Design and Architecture (Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Business)
Mike's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
Professor of Interdisciplinary Arts, University of Plymouth, School of Art, Design and Architecture, Faculty of Arts and Humanities:
Mike Phillips R&D orbits a portfolio of projects that explore the ubiquity of data ‘harvested’ from an instrumentalised world and its potential as a material for revealing things that lie outside our normal frames of reference - things so far away, so close, so massive, so small and so ad infinitum.
He is co-editor of Ubiquity, The Journal of Pervasive Media http://www.ubiquityjournal.net/ He manages the Fulldome Immersive Vision Theatre , a transdisciplinary instrument for manifesting (im)material and imaginary worlds.
The IVT supports interdisciplinary projects working with the Plymouth Dental and Medical Schools, Deep Physics and Astronomy groups, Earth Sciences, Psychology, Architecture and Environmental Building, as well as providing public screenings and supporting artists, musicians and performers through residencies and workshops.
The IVT was instrumental in establishing the Fulldome UK festival .
Phillips is an active member of an international transdisciplinary community that engages with immersive, interactive and performative technologies.
He sits on the ISEA International Board (Secretary), the Arts Council England SW Digital Reference Group, and is a founding Partner and Organiser of FullDome UK ( www.fulldome.org.uk/ ).
Other transdisciplinary work includes Atomic Force Microscopy based projects: ‘Exposure’, exhibited at UCLA Art Sci Centre, California NanoSystems Institute (CNSI), Los Angeles, USA; ‘spectre [ˈspɛktə/]’, Schauraum.
MuseumsQuartier, Museumsplatz Wien, Austria; ‘A Mote it is…’ Art in the Age of Nano Technology, John Curtin Gallery, Curtin University of Technology, Perth, WA.
Other digital projects include: ‘Constellation Columbia" a zero gravity work for Parabolic flight from the Gagarin Cosmonaut Training.
Centre, Russia.
Courtesy of The Arts Catalyst: MIR Campaign 2003, Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Centre, Russia; SciArt funded (Wellcome Trust, ACE, Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation) ‘STI Project’ (Search of Terrestrial Intelligence) in collaboration with the National Remote Sensing Centre (NRSC).
PhD Supervision:
(Students located in i-DAT, CODEX, Planetary Collegium (Plymouth, Milan & Zurich), Cognovo, Robotics and Geology).
PGR Examinations:
Internal Examiner: University of Plymouth: 12.
Chair: 9.
External Examiner: 21 [Architectural Association: 1 / Bournemouth University: 1 MPhil, 1 PhD / Bartlett School of Architecture, UCL: 2 / Leeds Beckett University: 1 / University of Brighton: 2 / Edinburgh Napier University: 1 / Edinburgh University: 2 / Goldsmiths, University of London: 1 / Kent Institute of Art & Design: 1 / De Montfort University: 1 / University of Salford: 1 / University of New South Wales: 1 / University of Wales Trinity Saint David: 1 (MPhil) / University of Westminster: 1 / University of Huddersfield: 1 / IT University of Copenhagen: 1 / University of Greenwich: 1.
Funding for studentships, residencies and research projects secured from: 5 F/T, 2 P/T 3D3 AHRC CDT, 3 F/T Co-I: EU FP7 Marie Curie ITN (€4.1m) "CogNovo: Cognitive Innovation" and ALErT, developing immersive geological simulations.
ESF 1 F/T, Onasis Foundation 1 F/T, CAPES 1 F/T, Alban 1 F/T, British Council Artist Link Inhabit program (residency, Brazil), Canadian Council for the Arts (residency and research project), Arts Council England (Grant for the Arts and project funding), Plymouth City Council (partner funding), AHRC (Art Science Fellowship), EPSRC (RA and Project funding), ERDF (RA and project funding) as well as a variety of smaller project funds from partners and collaborators.
Director of CODEX [www.codex-research.net/ ] an international Postgraduate Research network operating in the volatile and dynamic space that frames new interdisciplinary art and design practices.
Full-Time PhD consists of an 18-month Residency Period in the UK followed by a Mobility period in the collaborating institution: Jiangnan University, Wuxi (China National Light Industry Key Laboratory of Industrial Design and Experience Design Frontier Methodology and Technology Innovation Research Centre), Nanjing University of the Arts and Soochow University.
Main area of focus: critical, practical and creative processes required for the production of interactive digital and temporal media, data manifestation and visualization.
These activities foster experimentation and conceptual understanding of interactive design processes, establishing 'Ergodynamic' design strategies and critical conceptual skills, combined with technical production skills.
Modules:
Supervision of Industrial Placement students on BA/BSc (Hons) Digital Media Design.
Previous:
2007 - 10: TQEF RiT (Research Informed Teaching) Projects ‘Development of multi-disciplinary content for the IVT’ and ‘Development of a Cross-Faculty Centre for Creative Design and Technology’ (reports submitted 04/2009, Phillips, M.
and James, N.).
2000: Founder and Director of the Institute of Digital Art and Technology, University of Plymouth.
Funded by ERDF Award £11,640, HEIF/RDA Award £38,774 and ESF & HEROBIC Award £116,406.
1997 - 04: Deputy Director of STAR (Science Technology and Arts Research) PhD Supervisor / researcher.
The STAR research group became i-DAT on the demise in 2004 of CAiiA-STAR Integrated PhD Programme, which became the Planetary Collegium.
1997 - 07: Interactive Media Subject Group Leader, School of Computing, Faculty of Technology, University of Plymouth.
Became i-DAT in 2004.
1994 - 98: Staff Development and Industrial Courses: Discovering Multimedia, Exploring Multimedia, Producing Multimedia.
A variety of short courses delivered by satellite.
1989 - 92: Lecturer Media (New Technology), Full time.
Exeter Faculty of Arts & Design, Polytechnic South West.
Specific responsibilities for coordinating: Media Technologies, 3rd Yr Fine Art 4D.
1988 - 89: 0.5 Full time Lecturer Film, Video, Publishing, Department of Arts Communication, Exeter Faculty of Arts & Design, Polytechnic South West.
P/T lecturer - Media/Time Base, North Devon College of F.E.
1987 - 89: Fellow and P/T Lecturer on: Publishing & Book Production (Postgraduate); Film & Video (Fine Art B.A.); Photo/TimeBased (BTEC); CAD, 3D (B.A.).
Exeter College of Art & Design.
1985: Teaching Assistant In Narrative & Documentary Video module B.A.
& M.A.
students, Faculty of Fine Art, University of Massachusetts.
( Room 204, Roland Levinsky Building, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA +44 1752 586262 M.Phillips@plymouth.ac.uk
i l

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/miriam-darlington:
Lecturer in English and Creative Writing School of Law, Humanities and Social Sciences (Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Business)
Miriam's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
Nature Connections: relational engagement with nature through (co) creative practice
+44 1752 585145 miriam.darlington@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/mona-nasser:
Director Plymouth Institute of Health and Care Research (PIHR) Faculty of Health
Mona's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
Current roles and responsibilities:
Qualifications
Other Training:
Dr Mona Nasser DDS, MSc, PhD, FHEA
I am an experienced scientist and visionary research leader with 20 years of experience, contributing to funding applications totalling over £3 million from organizations such as NIHR, the EU, the MPS Foundation, and the British Council.
With over 100 peer-reviewed publications in prestigious journals, including The Lancet , BMJ , and Cochrane , my work has significantly influenced practice and policy within health research.
As a Professor of Clinical Epidemiology and Oral Health Research at the University of Plymouth and Director of the Plymouth Institute of Health and Care Research, I lead research driven by a central question: How can research better meet the needs of the diverse stakeholders it aims to serve?
My work emphasizes aligning research priorities with the needs of patients, clinicians, and policymakers, striving to bridge the gap between stakeholder requirements and funded studies.
My research primarily focuses on two interconnected areas, shaped by stakeholder consultations and my unique experiences as a dentist, a methodologist in a policy institute, and a PPL-certified pilot and skydiver:
I have developed and led innovative frameworks for research priority-setting, evaluation of funding processes, and addressing biases in study design.
My projects include addressing dental anxiety, improving dental care for individuals with disabilities, and conducting systematic reviews of preclinical and clinical research in space medicine.
I was a visiting fellow (2023-2024) at the Berlin Institute of Health/QUEST Centre, working with Prof.
Ulrich Dirnagl's group on methods for appraising and synthesizing in-vitro studies in a systematic review.
Prior to joining the dental school, I served as a research associate and methodologist in the Department of Health Information at the German Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health Care (IQWiG), the German equivalent of the National Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE) in the UK.
My work focused on assessing evidence to inform reports commissioned by the Federal Joint Committee (GBA).
During my tenure at IQWiG, I co-authored a report commissioned by the Commonwealth Fund, comparing evidence-based healthcare processes in France, Germany, England, and Australia to inform the Comparative Effectiveness Bill in the USA.
I am also a reviewer for UK and European funding agencies and for BMJ open, Journal of Clinical Epidemiology, Nature Communication, and other journals.
Leadership and Collaboration
I have fostered strategic partnerships across local, national, and international organizations, serving on non-profit boards and facilitating interdisciplinary collaboration to address complex societal challenges.
As co-founder and chair of the Cochrane Priority Setting Methods Group, my methodologies have been widely adopted by organizations like Cochrane and WHO.
I was on Board and Steering Group of Cochrane Collaboration and Evidence based Research Group.
These contributions earned me the prestigious Bill Silverman Award in 2012.
Additionally, I lead an Artificial iNtelliGence and roboticS in denTistry (ANGST) lab, advancing technological solutions in oral health.
I served as the REF coordinator for UoA3 during REF 2021 and was included in both REF 2014 and REF 2021, submitting an impact case study for each.
My REF 2014 impact case study, “Advancing Methods for Prioritizing Health Research,” received high praise from the REF panel for its reach and significance: “Some of the case studies were considered to be of very considerable impact in terms of their reach and significance, especially in relation to genetic counseling competencies and prioritizing health research.” My REF 2021 impact case study highlights the influence of my work on the policies and processes of health research funders, demonstrating its value in enhancing the effectiveness of research.
Equity in Action: Community Engagement and Collaborative Research Design
Throughout my career, I have prioritized community engagement and inclusivity, ensuring that research and innovation are accessible and responsive to diverse societal needs.
I have designed and led initiatives that bring together patients, clinicians, policymakers, and marginalized groups to co-create solutions that address real-world challenges.
For example, my project *Caring Beyond Words* fosters creativity and innovation in dental care for individuals with intellectual disabilities, while my work on the *AngST* project explores stress and anxiety triggers in dental clinics, empowering both patients and healthcare providers.
I also developed an equity framework for research priority setting, designed to identify areas where disadvantaged groups have been excluded from decision-making processes.
This framework has been piloted in collaboration with researchers in Malaysia, enabling communities to actively participate in shaping research priorities.
As a visual and speculative artist, I further leverage creative approaches to engagement through initiatives like Meta-Futurism, where I collaborate with communities to envision inclusive futures and unlock collective intelligence.
These efforts demonstrate my commitment to fostering interdisciplinary collaboration, promoting equity, and amplifying underrepresented voices in research and policy development.
Beyond Academia
Beyond my scientific endeavours, I am a visual and speculative artist, championing community-driven futurism through initiatives like Meta-Futurism, a collaboration I founded to unlock collective intelligence and envision inclusive futures.
I have designed virtual space exploration simulations and hosted international workshops, rethinking life on other planets and fostering new perspectives on climate and environmental engagement.
I am passionate about the intersection of art and science and how it can provide insight into complex issues and problems.
I am also a PPL (private pilot license) pilot, skydiver, and paraglider.
I have participated in a four-way skydiving competition Rookie team and flew navigational flights between UK and France.
Active Projects
Previous research students and staff:
Nicholas Peres - Bridging the Gap: Technological Mediation and the Development of Humanistic Skills in Medical Simulation: Lessons from Covid-19 and the Impact of Immersive Media and Minimal Viable Simulation (MVS) (Co-supervisor/ PhD) 2024 Alexander Pollard - Academic Clinical Fellows in Restorative Dentistry Nicole Thomas (Director of studies/PhD) Oral Health Literacy Intervention (2022) Alexander Legge- Academic Clinical Fellow in Primary care/ MClinRes student - The impact of enhanced PPE on clinical performance and communication Tom Thompson - postdoctoral fellow in oral health inequalities (2020-2021) Jacqui Knight - Visiting Specialist on the project (Enhancing the acquisition of soft skills, sensitivity and anticipation in training clinical dentists) (2021) Agatha Haines, Ideas Exchange: Design and the post bio-tech-body (Co-supervisor), PhD as part Cognovo project Anastasios Plessas (Director of studies), ResM, Impact of stress on the practice of dentistry Zoe Allen (co-supervisor), PhD, Exploring the referral interface between general dental practice and salaried dental services Jaysan Charlesford and Martha Paisi: (Postdoctoral fellows in Oral Health Inequality - investigating the impact of a community and patient centred Dental School on the existence and gradient of oral health inequalities in Devon and Cornwall (ICOD project).
Klara Łucznik and Mihaela Taranu - (Postdoctoral fellows) ColLaboratoire 2020 project Visiting Researchers: Yvette Gonzalez, MPH, Senior Climate Researcher, Sky Indicators project Gulcan Tecrili - Health Economist, Turkish Ministry of Health (Supported by Short Scientific Mission (STSM) COST EU Action EVBRES) Sumanth Kumbargere - Faculty of Dentistry (Manipal University, Melaka campus) Shiamaa Al Mashhadani - Dental Services Department, Dubai Health Authority Alexandru-Petru Vasile - Intern, European Space Agency, Cologne, Germany (Supported by Short Scientific Mission (STSM) COST EU Action EVBRES)
Advancing methods on allocating resources for research
+44 1752 586778 mona.nasser@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/neil-james:
Emeritus Professor School of Engineering, Computing and Mathematics (Faculty of Science and Engineering)
Neil's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
I have been Professor of Mechanical Engineering at Plymouth since 1996 and my research interests lie in design for structural integrity, covering the fields of fatigue and fracture, residual stresses, fatigue life prediction and welded joints.
I have variously been Dean of Technology (6½ years), Pro-Vice Chancellor (15 months) and Head of the School of Marine Science & Engineering/Associate Dean (6½ years).
I was educated at Allan Wilson Technical High School, Harare, Zimbabwe, hold a BSc(Eng) degree in Mechanical Engineering (Cum Laude 1976) from the University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg; a PhD (1984) in Metallurgy and Materials Science from the University of Cambridge, England; a DTech (Honoris Causa - 2003) from Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University, South Africa, and a DSc(Eng) (2005) from University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg.
Awards include the 2020 Robert Moskovic award from Technical Committee TC12 of the European Structural Integrity Society (one of 3 such awards in 2020) in “recognition of an outstanding contribution to Fatigue and Fracture of Structural Alloys and Materials”; the Coffin-Manson medal in 2019 awarded by the Italian Fracture Group in “recognition of the research work done throughout his academic career to understand and model the fatigue behaviour of metallic materials and welded joints”, and the Silver Medal of the South African Institution of Mechanical Engineering in 1986.
I have held, or hold, Visiting or Honorary Professorial appointments at Sheffield-Hallam University, Southwest Jiaotong University, Chengdu, China, Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University, Port Elizabeth, South Africa and the University of Ferrara, Italy.
From 1998 until 2020, I was Co-Editor (Europe, Middle East and Africa) of the International Journal of Fatigue (impact factor in 2019 of 4.369 and ranked 16/130 in Mechanical Engineering by Clarivate Analytics), am an Editorial Board member of Engineering Failure Analysis (Elsevier Science), and Frattura ed Integrità Strutturale - the International Journal of the Italian Fracture Group; have previously been on the Editorial Board of the ICE journal Forensic Engineering .
I have authored/co-authored more than 180 research publications in refereed International Journals and Conference Proceedings.
I have given numerous invited Plenary or Keynote lectures at International Conferences.
In 2008 I was invited to be the John Orr Memorial Lecturer for the South African Institution of Mechanical Engineering.
This prestigious lecture is intended to celebrate the achievements and contribution of Professor John Orr OBE, Hon.
LLD (1870-1954) to engineering and engineering education in South Africa.
My chosen topic was ‘Reliable Products and Structures’.
I am an Honorary Member of the Gruppo Italiano Frattura (Italian Fracture Group) in recognition of “outstanding achievements in the research fields of Material Science, Fracture Mechanics and Structural Integrity”.
I have significant experience of acting as a failure analysis and metallurgical consultant, generating some 180 reports over the last 40 years.
My work has ranged over advising on fatigue design, through determining mechanisms and causes of failure in mechanical equipment, plant and structures, to metallurgical assessment, corrosion problems, fatigue life and fracture toughness testing.
I have acted variously as a fatigue and fracture expert, an Expert Witness in court cases, and a forensic engineering consultant to industry and legal firms in a number of countries, including the UK, USA, South Africa, Netherlands, Australia and New Zealand.
Recent research degrees candidates include: P J McGrath, PhD An investigation of residual stresses induced by forming processes on the fatigue resistance of automotive wheels, 2001.
G R Bradley, PhD Fatigue Properties of Metal Inert Gas and Friction Stir Welded Aluminium Alloy 5383-H321, 2003.
H Lombard, PhD Optimized fatigue and fracture performance of friction stir welded aluminium plate: a study of inter-relationships between process parameters, TMAZ, microstructure, defect population and performance, 2007.
Yanwei Lu, PhD Full-field modelling of crack tip shielding phenomena, 2011.
Mark Newby, PhD Optimisation of shot peening for 12Cr steel in steam turbine blade applications, 2013 (ESKOM Research Programme).
A Mahmood, PhD Processing-performance relationships for fibre reinforced composites, 2015 (Iraqi Government Scholarship).
C A Yeo, MPhil The Development of a Methodology for a Dynamic Design Process, 2004.
Holistic approaches to engineering design and design philosophy
Use of internet resources to promote student-centred learning, enhance access and support larger student groups
Development of high level on-line resources to support teaching, e.g.
interactive tutorials and case studies
Fracture mechanics and fatigue
Materials engineering
A transformation in creep condition monitoring for high temperature, high pressure components
( Room 2, Reynolds, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA +44 1752 586021 M.James@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/phil-smith:
Honorary Associate Researcher School of Art, Design and Architecture (Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Business)
Phil's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
Dr Phil Smith is an Associate Professor.
He is an academic researcher, writer and artist specialising in walking, site-specific performance, dramaturgy, diagrammatical performances, eco-gothic fictions and mythogeographies.
He welcomes enquiries from postgraduate students interested in researching fields similar or adjacent to these areas; he is currently Director of Studies for Trystan Verran (bardik practice) and Patrick Ford (myth-making in Leeds arcades).
With artist Helen Billinghurst he works as the 'Crab' half of Crab & Bee; after a project of walks, readings and exhibition, ‘Plymouth Labyrinth’, https://plymouthlabyrinth.wordpress.com/ they published ‘The Pattern' (2020) with Triarchy Press.
His other publications include 'Goblin Queens and Qualia Knights' (2024), 'The Common' (2023), 'Living In The Magical Mode' (2022), ‘Making Site-Specific Theatre and Performance’ (Red Globe Press/Bloomsbury, 2018), ‘Walking’s New Movement’ (2015), ‘On Walking’ (2014) and ‘Mythogeography’ (2010).
At present he is preparing  a monograph on eco-eerie movies for Undefined Boundary Press.
Phil is company dramaturg of TNT Theatre (Munich) and co-author with its artist director, Paul Stebbings, of 'TNT: The New Theatre' (2022, Triarchy Press).
www.mythogeography.com https://www.triarchypress.net/smithereens.html https://www.facebook.com/mythogeography
Helen Billinghurst (PhD) 'Ways of making: producing artworks in the studio in response to experiential walking'
Ivan Pope (PhD) 'My Auschwitz State of Mind: a study of emergence of a text in relation to Auschwitz'
Site-based theatre, ambulatory performance, performance and environments, community theatre, improvisation, directing, playwriting, live art, symbolist theatre, rough theatre.
Re-imagining spaces and changing perspectives through performance practices
philip.smith@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/phillip-buckhurst:
Professor of Optometry School of Health Professions (Faculty of Health)
Students
Role as supervisor
Completed
Catriona Hamer
Director of studies
2015
Nicola Szostek
2017
Daneila Oehring
Co-supervisor
Muhammad Afzam Shah
2018
Mode of attendance
Start date
Sherrie Choy
Full time
September 2021
First year Visual Optics and Opthalmic lenses (20 credits) 2011 to 2017
Second year Binocular Vision and Neurophysiology (20 credits) 2012 to present
Final year Project Studies 2 (20 credits) 2013 to 2016
First year evidence based Practice (10 credits) 2011 to 2013
Second year Specialist clinical skills (20 credits) 2011 to present
Second year Project Studies 1 (10 credits) 2012 to present
Final year Primary Care (20 credits) 2013 to present
First year Clinical skills (20 credits) 2011 to Present
Second year Clinical skills (20 credits) 2012 to Present
Second year Optical Dispensing (20 credits) 2012 to Present
Assessment of the visual outcomes and stability of intraocular lenses leading to increased commercial revenue and patient benefits
+44 1752 588884 phillip.buckhurst@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/becky-stancer:
Associate Professor, Early Childhood School of Law, Humanities and Social Sciences (Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Business)
Becky's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
Lecturer in Early Childhood Studies
Developmental psychology Autism and related conditions
Improving the wellbeing of families with complex problems using novel attachment-based therapies
( Room 217, Nancy Astor Building, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA +44 1752 585352 rebecca.stancer@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/richard-thompson:
Director of the Marine Institute School of Biological and Marine Sciences (Faculty of Science and Engineering)
Richard's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
Professor Richard Thompson OBE FRS is Professor of Marine Biology and Director of the Marine Institute at the University of Plymouth.
Richard is a world-leading marine scientist and is at the forefront of pioneering research into the causes and effects of marine litter.
He founded and heads the University’s International Marine Litter Research Unit , which has charted the global distribution of microplastics from Arctic sea ice to the deep seas.
In 2019, the University was awarded the Queen's Anniversary Prize for the pioneering research of Richard and his colleagues on marine microplastics pollution and its impact on the environment and changing behaviour.
Honours
Richard was presented with the 2023 Blue Planet Prize in recognition of his groundbreaking research and ongoing work with colleagues in the UK and worldwide.
In 2017, Richard was awarded with an OBE (Officer of the Order of the British Empire) for his services to marine science.
He was awarded the 2017 Marsh Award for Marine and Freshwater Conservation for his pioneering research into microplastics.
Academic career Director of the Marine Institute, University of Plymouth, 2018–present Associate Dean, Research, University of Plymouth, 2016–2018 Professor of Marine Biology, University of Plymouth, 2010–present Reader in Marine Ecology, University of Plymouth, 2004–2010 Senior Lecturer, University of Plymouth, 2001–2004 Research Fellow (Leverhulme funded), University of Southampton, 1997–2000 Teaching Assistant, Newcastle University, 1996–1997
Current PhD students
James Delaney, Funding Argans Limited Remote sensing sensitivity of marine and terrestrial plastic litter, 2019 – present Chris Walkinshaw Funding NERC Env East DTP Does microplastic pollution pose a risk to marine life and food security?
2018 –present Madeleine Steer, Funding NERC Industrial CASE (UKWIR).Quantifying the influence of waste water treatment on the release of microplastics to the environment, 2018- present.
Zara Botterell, Funding NERC Env East DTP.
Bioavailability of microplastics to zooplankton, 2017 – present Sohvi Nuojua, Funding, UK Charity and University of Plymouth, Marine Litter: Can behavioural sciences help reduce land-based waste entering the oceans?
2017 - present.
Imogen Napper, Funding self, Plastics in the marine environment.
2014 – present
Completed PhD students Imogen Napper, Funding self, Plastics in the marine environment.
2014 - 2018 La Daana Kanhai, Funding EU Mares, Microplastic distribution and ecological interactions across latitudinal gradients, 2015-2018 Stephanie Wright, Funding Defra, Physical effects of microplastics on marine life.
2011 - 2015 Daniel Metcalfe, Funding ESF.
Environmentally & Ecologically durable surface design for the coastal built environment.
2011 -2015 Joao Frias, Funding FCT, Portugal.
Microplastics in the environment.2011- 2015.
Nicolas Biber, Funding: Self.
Distribution and effects on microplastics in the environment.
2009 – 2015 (part time).
Saeed Sadri, PhD 2015 Monitoring microplastics in the marine environment.
2009 – 2014.
Funding Defra.
Juliette Jackson, PhD 2015 Recruitment and succession on coastaldefence structures.
Funding: Self.
Kayleigh Wyles, PhD 2014 Rocky Shores: From habitat threat to marine awareness and restorative experiences.
Funding NERC/ESRC.
Luke Holmes, PhD 2013, The role of plastic production pellets in the transport and availability of trace metals in the marine environment.
Funding:University of Plymouth Studentship.
Martin Coombes, PhD 2011, Coastal defences and biodiversity: examining the interplay between engineering design and ecological response, Funding: GWR.
Gustavo Martins, PhD 2009, Community structure of the Azorean rocky intertidal: interactions between recruitment and exploitation,Funding: FCT(Portuguese Foundation for Science and Technology).
John Griffin, PhD 2008, Biodiversity and ecosystem functioning: tests using rockpools as natural mesocosms, Funding: NERC.
Ana Silva, PhD 2008, Predator-prey interactions in rocky intertidal communities, Funding: FCT (Portuguese Foundation for Science and Technology).
Mark Browne, PhD 2008, Environmental consequences of microscopic plastics in marine habitats, Funding: Leverhulme Trust.
Gerardo Gomes-Filho, PhD 2008, Physical and Biological Processes Influencing the Distribution of Barnacles in Estuaries, Funding:CAPES(Brazilian Ministry of Education).
Laure Noel, PhD 2007, Species interactions during succession in rockpools: role of herbivores and physical factors Funding: Self.
Emma Sheehan, PhD 2007, Ecological impact of the Carcinusmaenas (L.)fishery 'Crab-Tiling' on estuarine fauna, Funding: charitable sources.
Nova Mieszkowska, PhD 2005, Population structures and reproductive cycles of British Trochid Gastropods in relation to climate change, Funding: MARCLIM and Self.
Pippa Moore, PhD 2005, The Role of biological interactions in modyfying the effects of climate change on intertidal assemblages, Funding: PERC,University of Plymouth and Marine Biological Association.
Paula Moschella, PhD 2003, Influence of rock type on microbial fouling communities, Funding: EU.
Robert Alcock, PhD 2003, The effects of climate change on rocky shore communities in the Bay of Biscay.
1895 - 2050, Funding: Self.
Malcolm Roberts, PhD 2002, Population dynamics of Patella vulgata and P.depressa in S.W.
England, Funding: Self.
Programme Leader BSc (Hons) Marine Biology 2009–2013 Ecology of Shallow Water Marine Habitats Experimental Marine Ecology Field Ecology Statistics
A mandate for global change
Written by Mike Pattenden and featured in The Times on 4 November 2021 during the 2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26)
Reductions in microplastic pollution through changes to legislation, industrial innovation and societal awareness
“Working in scientific environment, it is about challenging each other to uncover the truth.”
Our ground-breaking research into microplastics pollution has received the highest honour that can be bestowed upon a higher education institution
Furthering our understanding of litter on the environment and defining solutions
We are responding to the challenge of providing science, education, technological innovation and business leadership for tomorrow’s world
A recipient of Clarivate's Highly Cited Researchers 2022 rank for the influence of his papers in the field of environment and ecology
( Room 308, Marine Building, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA +44 1752 584651 R.C.Thompson@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/sheena-asthana:
Director of Plymouth Institute of Health and Care Research Peninsula Medical School (Faculty of Health)
Sheena's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
Having been the (founding) Director of the Plymouth Institute of Health and Care Research, I have recently assumed Directorship of the Centre for Health Technology, a focus of significant ambition and investment for the University.
I am also the co-Director of the Centre for Coastal Communities, the first of its kind in the UK.
My original training was in global public health.
Following an undergraduate degree in Geography at Oxford University (for which I was awarded a congratulatory First), I undertook my doctoral training at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.
My PhD (in Community Medicine) focused on the role of community-based strategies in promoting health development in Indian slum communities and led to (WHO-funded) research on the scope for developing community-based responses to HIV prevention (again in India) with particular reference to commercial sex circuits and circuits of men who have sex with men.
I still publish and teach on issues relating to global public health.
However, as I began to have the first of my five children, I shifted my research interests towards the UK.
With respect to public health, examples include the largest local evaluation of a Health Action Zone, co-writing a major book on health inequalities and evidence-based public health and the chapter on coastal health inequalities in the 2021 Chief Medical Officer’s annual report and being a board member of the Royal Society for Public Health, a non-executive director (with the public health remit) of NICE and a non-executive director of Devon Integrated Care Board, with the remit for population health management, health inequalities and digital transformation.
I recently stepped down from the board of Change Grow Live (though remain on its research committee).
This is a national charity that provides, among other services, support for substance use, domestic abuse, children’s mental health and prisoner’s health.
I have learnt a lot from CGL’s ‘Whole Person’ approach and this has complemented current collaborative research on social prescribing, integrated care and the use of the ‘researcher in residence’ methodology to support participative research and practice.
I am also the principal investigator or co-application on a range of public health funded projects, including the NIHR funded Plymouth Health Determinants Research Collaboration (£5m).
At the other end of the spectrum, I have also established a large programme of health services research that involves the use of extensive health service, public health and related datasets and largely quantitative research methods.
For example, with Alex Gibson, an important focus has been the use of synthetic estimation techniques (within a Bayesian analytical framework) to develop robust methods of estimating the prevalence of specific diseases and disease risk factors.
We have used such methods to explore variations in health service use (primarily cardiovascular and mental health) relative to underlying need.
We have also long argued the case for using such estimates to sense-test the utilisation-based approach to setting health care capitations.
Through this work, resource allocation has become an important research focus and, with Alex Gibson, impact case studies on the formula funding of public services were rates 4* in REFs 2014 and 2021.
I sit on the Advisory Committee for Resource Allocation, the independent body that advises NHS England on the distribution of more than £160 billion NHS funding.
Alex and I have also carried out research on funding allocations for local government, adult social care, children’s services, education and policing.
Other research interests include digital health, with a particular emphasis on the barriers and enablers to embedding innovation in the NHS (which related to a range of infrastructural, evidential and cultural challenges) and a concern with levelling up coastal communities, a focus of our current South West Coastal Local Innovation Policy Partnership.
I probably come across as a bit of a dilettante.
However, I enjoy the breadth of my research interests and I do hope that this has given me good knowledge (complex, layered and longstanding) of the health and social care systems (in the UK and further afield) as well as an ability to identify, nurture and champion research across very different health-related disciplines.
I have been an applicant on over £30 million of funded research projects, the author of over 200 publications (excluding conference presentations) and am a Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences
P.
Evans: Urban Mosquitoes and Measures for their Control in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.
Awarded 1995; ESRC funded.
Vong-Ek.
Factors Affecting the Incidence and Duration of Breastfeeding in Thailand: Implications for Health Promotion.
Awarded 2000.
WHO funded.
S.
Burley.
Changing Childbirth: the Role of Antenatal Services.
Awarded 2004.
University Scholarship, University of Plymouth.
Richardson.The Challenge of Interagency Information Sharing.
A Systemic Analysis of Two Sure Start Children's Centres.
Awarded 2007, ESRC funded
E.
Williams.
Non-Governmental Organizations and HIV/AIDS in Kolkata, India: A Discursive Analysis of Policy and Programming.
Awarded 2009.
ESRC funded.
Health policy; social justice; international social policy; sustainability; and globalisation and health.
Sheena is a leading advocate for improved distribution of funds to ensure fairer access to healthcare for all, focusing her attention on communities disproportionately lacking in support
Redesigning public services funding allocation formulae to maximise social benefit
“I conducted a study on disease prevalence estimates which showed that rural and coastal areas, which were more affluent on paper, were shown to have higher levels of need than urban areas.”
Why have the many problems facing coastal communities been overlooked in media, academic, policy and political accounts of deprivation in modern Britain?
( Room 003, 10 Portland Villas, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA +44 1752 585753 S.Asthana@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/alex-gibson:
Senior Research Fellow Peninsula Medical School (Faculty of Health)
Alex's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
Senior Research Fellow, Faculty of Health
( School of Government, 20 Portland Villas, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA +44 1752 5585801 alex.gibson@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/sian-rees:
Associate Head of School - Research School of Biological and Marine Sciences (Faculty of Science and Engineering)
Sian's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
I am a marine scientist working in marine conservation, marine management and policy.
I have a strong record of achievement in social and economic research methods to define the marine social-ecological system at a variety of scales.
To extend the impact of my research I work closely with statutory nature conservation agencies, NGOs, government departments and international organisations.
I teach on the following modules:
An Urban Innovative Actions (UIC) funded project which aims to better connect people to green and blue spaces within and around the city of Plymouth.
The social, economic and environmental impacts of a Marine Protected Area (MPA): Lyme Bay
Site Classification to Inform Sustainable Lives and Livelihoods for Fisheries and Ecosystems
A £20 million programme comprising of more than 50 partners from across the globe aiming to support the sustainable management of the marine environment.
Preventing a LIONfish invasion in the MEDiterranean through early response and targeted REmoval
Addressing key issues would enable the UK it to meet its target of becoming a global leader in fisheries management and marine conservation
Dr Sian Rees and Professor Tom Hutchinson are among 60 members who will provide advice on nationally and globally important environmental issues
Plymouth is to become home to the UK’s first Blue Carbon Artist in Residence as it expands its efforts to engage local residents and visitors with the wonders of the marine environment.
( Room B431, Portland Square, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA +44 1752 584732 sian.rees@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/emma-sheehan:
Professor of Marine Ecology School of Biological and Marine Sciences (Faculty of Science and Engineering)
Emma's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
Dr Emma Sheehan was part of an international research team which has showed the full extent of human development in oceans
Dr Emma Sheehan and Tom Mullier co-authored a chapter in Marine Protected Areas: Science, Policy and Management
It’s been ten years since the University of Plymouth began its landmark assessment of the Marine Protected Area at Lyme Bay
( B433, Portland Square, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA +44 1752 584699 emma.sheehan@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/will-blake:
Professor of Catchment Science School of Geography, Earth and Environmental Sciences (Faculty of Science and Engineering)
Will's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
I am Professor of Catchment Science with interests in soil erosion, its downstream impacts and associated land management challenges.
I specialise in development and application of environment forensic/diagnostic approaches to solve complex sediment and pollution problems from catchment to coast.
I undertake research, undergraduate and postgraduate teaching in river basin science and physical geography.
Director of the Sustainable Earth Institute.
Director of the University of Plymouth Consolidated Radioisotope Facility (CoRiF) .
I teach on the following subjects with a strong emphasis on linking teaching to my research:
Hillslope hydrology and soil erosion
River basin fine sediment dynamics from catchment to coast
Environmental pollution (especially sediment quality and legacy impacts of mining)
Catchment science and management
Catchment ecosystem services
Geohazards: wildfire
Geographical science methods
Wherever possible, my class teaching of process theory is supported by field- and laboratory-based practicals e.g.
rainfall simulation to explore impacts agriculture on overland flow and soil erosion or quantification of the environmental quality of streams to assess the effectiveness of catchment sensitive farming.
I have run overseas fieldtrips to the rainforest of Malaysian Borneo where I work on logging impacts on river sediments.
I am keen to offer students opportunity to gain professional catchment science experience and regularly employ undergraduate and masters students within my research programmes to assist with field sampling and laboratory analysis.
This includes training students to work to ISO9001:2008 standard in the University Consolidated Radioisotope Facility of which I am Director.
I undertake research project supervision on BSc (Hons) Geography and related programmes and MSc projects within the 'Sustainable Environmental Management' and Environmental consultancy' programmes.
Will is a global researcher applying environmental diagnostic tools to solve complex issues of soil erosion, its downstream impacts and the associated land management challenges it presents
Turning environmental forensic evidence into effective soil conservation policy
Will discusses his research and passion for geography
The world is facing a very real emergency with accelerating soil erosion.
So where is the same sense of urgency that we see for climate change or antibiotic resistance?
Centre for Research in Environment and Society (CeRES) research project
Socio-ecological resilience to soil erosion driven by extreme events: past, present and future challenges in East Africa – 'Jali ardhi'
( Room 109, Kirkby Lodge, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA +44 1752 585969 william.blake@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/zoe-james:
Professor of Criminology School of Law, Humanities and Social Sciences (Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Business)
Zoë's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
Zoë James teaches on the Criminology undergraduate degree at Plymouth.
She also teaches on the MSc Criminology, including modules on Criminology Theory and Criminology Research.
Zoë is a research supervisor and personal tutor for undergraduate and postgraduate students and supervises a number of PhD students who are exploring issues in criminology.
Applications for PhD study are welcomed.
Influencing provision, policy making and police training in the UK and Romania to increase the profile of Gypsies, Travellers, and Roma
( Room 05, 19 Portland Villas, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA Z.James@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/yinghui-wei:
Associate Head of School (Resources) School of Engineering, Computing and Mathematics (Faculty of Science and Engineering)
Yinghui's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
I am Associate Head of School (Resources) and Professor of Statistics and Data Science in School of Engineering, Computing and Mathematics at University of Plymouth.
My primary research interest is in developing statistical methodology and the substantive applications to medicine, clinical trials, observational studies and evidence synthesis, as well as using data to improve population health and health care services.
I have experience in conducting big data enabled health research using NHS data, national registry databases, and large and complex data (from up to 24 million people) from national linked electronic health records and longitudinal cohort studies within Trusted Research Environments/Secure Data Environments.
I led an impact case study " Improved health research and practice through advancing statistical methods and applications " for REF2021 UoA10 Mathematical Sciences.
I was a Statistical Editor for Cochrane developmental psychosocial and learning problems review group (2011-2023).
I sit on Royal Society's International Exchanges Committee and on Royal Statistical Society President Nominating Committee.
I am a member of the Executive Group for Health Data Research UK South-West.
I chair the School Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Comittee and Athena Swan Self-Assessment team.
I led the School's successful Athena Swan Silver application in 2024 and Bronze application in 2020.
I was the Winner for the Vice-Chancellor's Awards 2024 for the Award of Equality, Diversity & Inclusion.
I led a cross-faculty team for the establishment of the new MSc Health Data Science and Statistics for September 2022 launch.
I also hold an honorary/visiting appointment in Bristol Medical School at University of Bristol.
I am an associated member of National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) Applied Research Collaboration South West Peninsula (PenARC).
Prior to joining Plymouth, I was Investigator Scientist (Statistician) in MRC Clinical Trials Unit at UCL, Career Development Fellow in Biostatistics in MRC Biostatistics Unit at University of Cambridge, and Research Fellow in School of Mathematical Sciences, University of Nottingham.
I completed my PhD and MSc in Statistics in 2008 and 2004, respectively, from the School of Mathematics, The University of Manchester.
Research interests My primary research interest is in developing statistical methodology and the substantive applications to medicine, clinical trials, observational studies and evidence synthesis, as well as using data to improve population health and health care services.
I have a sustained research contribution to developing novel statistical methods in medicine, as well as applied health data science, through disciplinary and interdisciplinary collaborations, supported by external research funding.
My specific methodological research areas include:
I have worked in various disease areas, including
In 2021, I was awarded an MRC fellowship to work within the COVID-19 Longitudinal Health and Wellbeing National Core Study to investigate the long-term effects of COVID-19 on population health.
In 2009-2012, I was an MRC Career Development Fellow in Biostatistics at Cambridge, where I delivered methodological research in multivariate meta-analysis of multiple outcomes and multiple treatments.
In 2012-2013, I worked as a methodological Statistician at the MRC London Hub for Trials Methodological Research, where I conducted methodological research in meta-analysis of time-to-event outcomes.
I co-developed a statistical package, ipdfc in Stata, to reconstruct individual participant time-to-event data from published Kaplan-Meier curves, which has been used by researchers worldwide ( link ).
Externally funded projects
Selected Seminars/Talks/Posters
Conferences organised
Current PhD Students at University of Plymouth:
Visiting PhD Students:
I lead the MSc Health Data Science and Statistics programme.
I supervise MSc projects in Health Data Science and Statistics.
Recent projects include the analysis of patient reported outcomes in multiple sclerosis, estimation of reproduction number for COVID19, and the impact of COVID-19 on mental health.
Past projects also include predictive analytics for social housing and telecommunication industry.
I was Stage 1 Tutor for BSc (Hons) Mathematics for three years (2018 – 2021).
Improved health research and practice through advancing statistical methods and applications
+44 1752 586331 yinghui.wei@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/sabine-pahl:
Honorary Professor of Applied Social Psychology School of Psychology (Faculty of Health)
Sabine's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
( B219, 22 Portland Square, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA +44 1752 584847 sabine.pahl@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/steve-goodhew:
Professor of Environmental Building and Discipline Leader School of Art, Design and Architecture (Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Business)
Steve's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
Discipline lead and Unit 13 REF Coordinator
Using natural materials to reduce energy used in buildings and construction
Investigating whether thermal imaging can promote the early identification of defects in construction projects
Researchers from the University believe the findings could be a game-changer in helping the UK achieve its net-zero commitments
Steve Goodhew is Professor of Environmental Building and Associate Head of School for Architecture, Design and Environment.
Academic spotlight: Steve Goodhew, Professor of Environmental Building
( Room 205A, Roland Levinsky Building, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA +44 1752 585190 S.Goodhew@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/daniel-maudlin:
Professor School of Law, Humanities and Social Sciences (Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Business)
Daniel's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
Daniel Maudlin specialises in the history of the British Empire and its global contexts, 1600 - 1900, primarily focussing on the North Atlantic  - British Isles, North America, the Caribbean, West Africa - and the Indian Subcontinent.
He studied  at the University of St Andrews both as an undergraduate (MA (Hons), 1996) and postgraduate (PhD, 2002).
He is currently Professor of History  at the University of Plymouth where he teaches History and Heritage across BA History  and is programme lead for MA Heritage.
He previously taught at the University of St Andrews and the University of Glasgow and led the University of Pennsylvania's European Conservation Summer School running live projects at British historic sites and collections.
He has been a Leverhulme Postdoctoral Fellow at Dalhousie University, Canada, Research Fellow at the Colonial Williamsburg Foundation, Research Fellow at the Winterthur Museum, Visiting Fellow at UPenn, Visiting Fellow at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and Visiting Scholar at the Centre for Scottish Studies, University of Guelph, Canada.
Research grants include a Leverhulme Postdoctoral Fellowship, AHRC Network Grant, AHRC Mid Career Fellowship, AHRC Impact Fellowship and Leverhulme Trust Major Research Fellowship.
He has been awarded the Allen G.
Noble Prize by the International Society for Landscape, Place and Material Culture; the Jeffrey Cook Prize by the Interntational Assocation for the Study of Traditional Environments and History Book of the Year by the Scotsman for his first book, The Highland House Transformed .
Before moving into academia he worked in the museums and heritage sector including: the Peggy Guggenheim Collection, Venice; V&A - Royal Malay Museums; National Galleries of Scotland and the furniture department of Bonhams Auctioneers, Bond St, London.
Current research projects include Project Lead on Objects, Spaces, Sounds , a transdisciplinary, multi-institution study of imperialism and intercultural placemaking in Hudson Bay, co-created with the Indigenous Cree communities of Hudson Bay, Canada (£750,000 AHRC bid in preparation to submit 2025).
This year he is also engaged with an AHRC Impact Accelerator Fellowship with the National Trust, Re-Thinking Eighteenth-Century Sites, re-thinking curatorial approaches to eighteenth century house and collections across England, Wales and Northern Ireland.
He is also part of the interdisciplinary team leading the £1.2 million EPSRC-funded ICONIC Project exploring the health benefits of heritage sites for excluded groups through remote digital access (extended reality).
He has  two major monographs currently in-press with Oxford University Press: A Night at the Inn: material culture and the elite experience of empire, 1650 -150; and, Georgian Architecture (Oxford History of Art (OUP, 2026).
Previous publications include Inner Empire: Architecture and Empire in the British Isles with G.
A.
Bremner (MUP, 2024); Building the British Atlantic World with Bernard L.
Herman (UNC Press, 2016), winner of the Allen G Noble Book Prize; and, The Highland House Transformed: Architecture and Identity on the edge of Britain (EUP, 2009), Scotsman History Book of the Year.
I also write on theoretical approaches to everyday spaces, including On the Occupation, Appropriation and Interpretation of Buildings with Marcel Vellinga (Routledge, 2014); 'Concepts of the Vernacular' with Robert Brown in the SAGE Handbook of Architectural Theory (SAGE, 2012).
He teaches across BA History and MA History and is programme leader for MA Heritage Theory and Practice .
He also run the spin-out heritage consultancy, Plymouth Heritage Praxis .
Plymouth Heritage Praxis works with students and MA gradutes across a portfolio of partnership heritage projects.
PHP works through grant-funded partnerships and contract research with the heritage sector.
Current partners include the National Trust, Historic England, Dartmoor National Park, The Box, National Marine Park and Powderham Castle.
daniel.maudlin@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/paul-warwick:
Education for Sustainability Lead (Good Growth) School of Geography, Earth and Environmental Sciences (Faculty of Science and Engineering)
Paul's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
Paul is the Centre for Sustainable Futures Lead at the University of Plymouth.
He is responsible for supporting curriculum development, pedagogic change and participatory research relating to exploring the potential for sustainability education within Higher Education.
Paul has worked for twelve years within Higher Education taking a leading role in developing a variety of educational innovation and reform initiatives primarily concerned with Citizenship Education and Education for Sustainable Development (ESD).
In 2009 he was awarded a teaching fellowship for expertise and innovation in teaching related to the sustainability agenda at the University of Leicester.
He founded a masters level course specifically geared towards teacher education in ESD and as director of a MA International Education programme pioneered a pathway specifically tailored towards innovation and reform in education.
Specialist teaching areas include: Education for Sustainable Development - sustainability pedagogies; teaching controversial issues; informal learning Citizenship Education - Service Learning, Community Action, Student Voice Pedagogic Research - Action research, qualitative methods and lesson study
( Rm 103, Kirkby Lodge, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA +44 1752 584924 paul.warwick@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/michael-punt:
Michael's work contributes towards the following SDG(s):
Prof.
dr.
Michael Punt, BA MA PhD ILTA,
Professor of Art and Technology, University of Plymouth
Hon.
Professor, University College London, Institute of Education.
Editor-in-Chief Leonardo Reviews,
Head of FWF PEEK Board.
Education, Teaching and Research Appointments:
Michael Punt is a Professor of Art and Technology at the University of Plymouth and an international co-editor for Leonardo and Editor-in-Chief of Leonardo Reviews .
He is the founding convenor of the Transtechnology Research Group which has a constituency of more than 20 international doctoral, post-doctoral and visiting researchers who use a range of practice and theory-based methods.
Topics currently being researched concern the historical and philosophical aspects of nineteenth century media and contemporary digital technology, cinema and the technological imaginary, cognitive aspects of industrial design, affective interaction and instrumentation, spatial awareness in scientific representation, sustainable new materials for artefact engineering, simulation in clinical training, and applied clinical simulation in ODAs.
He has directed over 30 PhD completions.
Michael Punt has practiced and exhibited internationally as a sculptor and film maker and taught in Art Schools and Universities continuously from 1969.
In 1992 he was awarded a 4-year bursary from the University of Amsterdam and brought, historical research begun in 1989 at UEA and his film practice to bear on a new history of early cinema.
Subsequently this research was applied to a wider consideration of the cognitive determinants of technological form in audio visual media and this informs his current research.
He has jointly produced two books, made 16 films and published over 100 articles on cinema history and digital technology in key journals.
Between 1996 and 2000 he was a monthly columnist for Skrien , the Dutch journal of audiovisual media, commenting on the interaction between the internet and cinema as it was developing.
His research has been supported by funding from the AHRC, and the EU through HERA and Marie Curie.
His current research brings art practice and historical criticism into a unified publishing platform.
He is a panel member and reviewer for a number of national funding bodies including those in Austria, Canada, Portugal, Czechoslovakia and the European Commission.
He is Head of the FWF PEEK Board that distributes ±€7m funding for Arts based research in any discipline.
For ten years he was a member of the AHRC PRC and supported the Council in a number of training and advisory capacities and was a member of the Strategic Reviewer Group, RiR, and UK JHEP advisory board on cultural heritage.
He is currently a member of the UKRI FLF College Panel.
His current academic functions at Plymouth are supporting doctoral and post-doctoral researchers, supporting the research strategy and leading interdisciplinary research projects.
Professor Bill Seaman, Thesis: Recombinant Poetics; Emergent Meaning as Examined and Explored within a Specific Generative Virtual Environment (1999).
Dr.
Jonathan Bedworth, Thesis: AL Programming for Musical Composition (2001).
Martha Blassnigg.
The Cinema and its Spectatorship: The Spiritual Dimension of the ‘Human Apparatus’ (UoW 2007).
Chris Speed.
A Social Dimension for Digital Architectural Practice (2007).
Stephen Thompson.
Industrial Design Discourses (2008).
John Vines.
Aging Futures: Cognitively Inclusive Digital Media Products.
[DoS] 2010(AHRC)
Hannah Drayson, Gestalt Biometrics and their Applications; Instrumentation, Objectivity and Poetics.
(EPSRC) [DoS] (2011)
Martyn Woodward.
Sensual Communication: Toward and Embodied Model of Visual Communication.
[DoS] (2013) (ESF)
David MacConville.
On The Evolution of Heavenly Spheres.
2013.
Joanna Griffin, Changing Space: The Social and Experiential Culture of Spacecraft and the Public Domain [DoS] (AHRC) (2014).
Rita Cachao, The Mis-en-abyme of Space: Towards an artistic methodology to approach the ontology of space as a methodological tool.
[DoS] (FTC.
2015)
Taslima Begum, (Transtechnology Research).
Design and Post Colonialism.
[DoS] (UoW.
Marcio Rocha.
New routes to Human Computer Interaction: Reconciling the Artificial with Human Nature.
[DoS] (2015) (CAPES)
Claudy Op den Kamp.
Copyright Law and the Re-Use of Archival Footage.
[DoS] (2015) (UoP)
Phil Ellis.
Reenacting Television History.
[DoS] ( UoP 2017).
Amanda Egbe.
Mphil.
Notions on Radical Image Archive Practice.
[DoS] (UoP, 2016)
Edith Doove.
Curation and the Inframince.
[DoS] (2017)
Eugenia Stamboliev.
Animatronic Robot Morality and Ethics.
[DoS] (UoP 2017)
Abigail Jackson.
Autism and Performance Approaches.
[DoS] (2019.
AHRC).
Guy Edmonds.
Early Cinema and  the Cognitive Impact of Digital Projection [DoS] (EU 2020)
Agi Haines.
Ides Exchange Understanding the Human Object.
[DoS] (UoP 2021)
Jacqui Knight.
The Contact Sheet as a Conduit to Creativity.
Dr .
Heidi Morstang.
Intuitive Interventions: Constructing Documentary Cinematic Narratives.
Jane Hutchinson.
A Media Archaeology of Technologies of Enchantment.
[DoS] (2022)
Stephanie Moran, (Symbiont Encounters: Ecological Fictioning and Networked Media.
(2022)
Paul Finnegan.
The digital image according to its hieroglyphic and animistic capacities (2022).
James Sweeting.
The Impact of Nostalgia on Videogame Form [DoS] (2023)
Dr Linan Zhang.
International Development and KE in Clinical Contexts.
(2024)
Dr Nick Peres.
Immersive Cinematics in Medical Simulation.
Technology and Culture
- Art and technology - Science and technology as a history of ideas - Popular interpretations of science in the late nineteenth century
Film Studies and Cinema History
- Early cinema and technology - Early film form - Cinema history and theory
Technology and Historiography
- Interpretations of nineteenth century ideas in science and technology
( Room 321B, 22 Portland Square, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA +44 1752 586264 michael.punt@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/ref2014:
The Research Excellence Framework 2014 results confirmed our position as a dynamic research institution and one leading the charge for modern universities in the UK.
The results reveal the international quality of our research right across the spectrum of health and medicine, business, arts and social sciences; transforming lives and underpinning the quality of our research-informed approach to teaching and learning.
Each subject submission was also graded according to the impact of the work, and the research environment, such as the amount of funding received and the number of PhD students in each area.
A university-wide success story, our results are a testament to the talent that permeates every area of expertise at the University of Plymouth.
Key highlights include: Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences, which includes marine, environmental chemistry and geology, was the University’s highest-rated submission, with 85% of its research graded at 3 or 4 stars.
Computer Science and Informatics, Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience, and Clinical Medicine all registered scores of around 80% The University of Plymouth Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry ranked 13th overall, and first in the country in terms of the medical research ‘outputs’, based upon the quality of its publications and the number of citations.
Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE)
Department for Employment and Learning, Northern Ireland (DEL NI)

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/parliamentary-evidence-week:
Three teams delivered briefings on secondary school climate education, artificial light at night, and regenerative offshore aquaculture
A climate problem-solving generation New survey material on what young people say they need at secondary school – with Professor Alison Anderson
Marine light pollution Understanding and managing the impact of artificial light at night – with Dr Thomas Davies and Professor Tim Smyth (Plymouth Marine Laboratory)
30,000 tonnes of mussels What is required to reach the UK Government target?
– with Dr Emma Sheehan and Dr Llucia Mascorda-Cabre
The magnitude of the global environmental challenge associated with plastic pollution was recently acknowledged by agreement among 175 nations, including the UK, to develop a legally binding agreement by 2024 – the UN Plastic Pollution Treaty.
As the maritime sector becomes more technologically advanced, there is an increased threat of critical national infrastructure to be compromised, essential services to be stopped, and both lives and livelihoods to be affected.
A strategic research institute with one of the largest marine and maritime portfolios in Europe, and an international reputation for world-leading, transdisciplinary research
Advancing research, knowledge and innovation for a more sustainable earth

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/public-policy/postnotes-the-universitys-work-with-the-parliamentary-office-of-science-and-technology:
The core objective of the Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology (POST) is to supply trusted and impartial analysis to the UK Parliament.
Its work is used to inform both the House of Commons and House of Lords and its advisers are in constant contact with leading experts from academia, industry, government, the third sector and beyond.
That process – which includes horizon scanning and literature reviews, contextualising research evidence, and peer reviewing – ensures POST is aware of emerging topics of interest in the science community and can begin to work with Government to address them.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/public-policy/public-policy-evidence-summaries:
Our evidence summaries provide the most up-to-date research evidence on key topics and promote change for policymakers.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/public-policy/public-policy-influence:
Research by the University of Plymouth is provided as evidence to policymakers to improve decision making and outcomes for the communities we serve, both in the UK and internationally.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/rosie-langridge:
Profiles
Policy Engagement Officer
Research Strategy and Governance (Research & Innovation)

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/marine-litter/impact:
H 2004 – First scientific paper describing microplastics
H 2007 – First paper on chemical transport to organisms by microplastic
H 2008 – First paper showing ingestion and retention of microplastics by organisms
H 2011 – First paper showing global distribution of microplastics
H 2013 – First paper showing microplastic ingested by natural populations of commercially important fish
H 2014 – First papers showing substantial accumulation of microplastics in Arctic and deep sea
H 2015 – First paper quantifying microbeads from cosmetic products
H 2017 – First paper quantifying release of microfibres from textiles
H 2018 – First paper showing distribution of nanoplastic throughout the body of a marine invertebrate
H 2020 – First study revealing vehicle tyres as a substantial source of marine microplastics
Read our research publications
Participation by University academics in New Scientist Live
UK Government bans microbeads in cosmetics
Professor Richard Thompson was invited by the Galapagos Conservation Trust to support efforts to eliminate plastic pollution
Environment Minister Thérèse Coffey pledges £200,000 of UK Government money into the tyre particle research (microfibers)
University related press release – University receives Government funding to analyse impact of tyres and textiles on the marine environment .
International Year of the Reef: Research Seminar 'Marine Litter: Are there solutions to this global environmental problem?'
Scientists earn awards for global impact of microplastics research
A team including Plymouth won the Societal Impact category and overall prize in the Natural Environment Research Council’s 2018 Impact Awards.
Read more in our press release .
'Foresight Future of the Sea' report for UK Government
Richard Thompson receives Marsh Award for Marine and Freshwater Conservation
Study discovers microplastic fibres are released into the environment when washing clothes
International Marine Litter Research Unit advises G7 on marine litter monitoring (2016)
UK introduces single use plastic bag tax (2015)
Richard Thompson invited to talk at John Kerry's 'Our Oceans: Marine Pollution' conference for the US Department of State (2014)
Richard Thompson meets US Secretary of State, John Kerry.
Conference looked at state of world's oceans, 30 global scientists invited.
IMLRU delivers four star Impact Case study for the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2014: Discovery of microplastics as key anthropogenic contaminants in the marine environment
Richard Thompson asked by the United Nations Environment Programme to identify 'Global and Regional Solutions to the Marine Debris Problem' (2011)
EU Marine Strategy Framework Directive – Expert Group on Marine Debris (2010-present)
Joint Group of Experts on the Scientific Aspects of Marine Environmental Protection (GESAMP), an advisory body of the UN, discusses microplastics following IMLRU's research (2009)
White paper produced following United States Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to organise the first international meeting on microplastics at the University of Washington (2008)
EU Marine Strategy Framework Directive – Task Group 10: Marine Debris (2007–2009)
Richard Thompson takes part in International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) working group on environmental aspects of marine renewable energy (2008–2010)
Richard Thompson’s research first coined the term ‘microplastics’ (2004)

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/public-policy/engaging-with-policy:
Your research can change policy and improve lives
Government structures, stakeholders and the UK policy making environment
Sharing your knowledge to contribute to evidence-based policy making
Find the right person or organisation to talk to, discover opportunities, and learn about the policy-making process
Public Policy
Doctoral College
Research and Innovation

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/news/university-experts-continue-push-for-global-shipping-sustainability:
Read more: A pilot study for establishing and operating a Green Shipping Corridor between the UK and ASEAN region through Singapore
Singapore is already transitioning to become a multi-fuel bunkering hub to cater for the next generation of ultra-large dual-fuelled eco vessels.
Dr Stavros Karamperidis Associate Professor in Maritime Economics
World-leading research like this is key to making the region competitive, not just in academia, but across many different sectors.
Maritime Transport Research Group
Clean Maritime
Maritime sustainability research

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/news/academic-contributes-to-report-warning-hidden-toll-of-brain-injury-costs-the-economy-43-billion-a-year:
I remember going numb.
I had always put my brother’s issues down to poor family background and often wondered what led him to go down such a destructive path whilst my sister and I, despite having similar experience, had not.
Despite my professional knowledge, I had been flying blind.
Dr Alyson Norman Associate Professor in Psychology
Specialist community neurorehabilitation could have picked up the issues that led to his downward spiral.
This isn’t just a debilitating condition for those impacted, who may find themselves suddenly unable to work, function or walk in the way they are used to, it is also a huge cost to society and the economy.
If we are to treat some of the most serious societal problems including addiction, mental health crises and violence, we need to look at the root cause – which in the majority of cases is a brain injury.
By giving patients a right to specialist rehabilitation in the communities they live in, we can save money and improve lives.
Sir John Hayes MP Chair of the APPG, who experienced a brain injury in his youth
Giving patients a right to rehab delivers substantial economic and social returns.
It reduces long-term healthcare costs, increases workforce participation, and alleviates pressure on social services.
At the same time, it strengthens communities by enabling individuals with brain injuries to lead more fulfilling lives, contribute to society, and support their families.
The ripple effect of these outcomes benefits everyone.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/news/university-helps-to-lead-calls-for-investment-in-coastal-communities:
This important policy report clearly highlights the multiple and inter-linked challenges facing our medium, large, and major coastal cities.
Professor Sheela Agarwal Agarwal Co-Director of the Centre for Coastal Communities
The economic potential of our regional ports and their crucial role in achieving net zero targets are undervalued.
The report advocates for renewed focus and coherent strategies tailored to the unique needs of coastal communities, aimed at fostering economic resilience, social equity, and environmental stewardship.
I fully endorse the recommendations it makes which are themed around empowerment, protection, connection, and investment as foundational strategies.
I hope that it serves as a clarion call for our new Government to act swiftly.
Addressing challenges through the lens of place
Health, community and wellbeing
Towards a new coastal classification
Coastal Health Outcomes
Creative Coastal Futures

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/funding/international:
International students: study with us
University of Plymouth International College (UPIC)
Visit our country guides
English language requirements
English Language Centre
Policy and procedure guidance
Frequently asked questions

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/summer-schools:
summerschool@plymouth.ac.uk
University of Plymouth,
Room 001 Hepworth House, 
Drake Circus,
Plymouth 
PL4 8AA
United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/apply-for-a-student-visa:
Related topics
c Apply up to six months before the course start date
( Apply from the country where you normally live
Z Prepare the documents listed below
* Pay relevant fees
A Submit your biometrics and (if applicable) attend a credibility interview at a visa application centre
c Apply as soon as possible – applying three months before your current visa expires should give you plenty of time to prepare

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/student-life/uk-study:
International student on a daytrip to Mount Edgcumbe, overlooking Plymouth Sound
It’s so easy to meet and establish friendships with people of different cultures, nationalities and upbringings at the University – all it takes is to approach a person and a conversation will ignite.
This is the opportunity of a lifetime to immerse yourself in a different culture, enjoy an independent student lifestyle, and make new friends with locals and other people from around the world.
Our staff aim to help you make the most of your time here.
Nestled between the ever-changing sea and famously beautiful countryside, Plymouth gives you the perfect chance to explore life in and outside of the city.
You could not hope for a better place to experience unique and authentic British culture.
Plymouth is home to people of many backgrounds, languages and beliefs, but if you begin to miss home, access to our student societies gives you a network of people in the same situation to connect with and build your confidence.
Have the correct documents
Have the correct visa
Make your studies your top priority
If you have dependants, make the right arrangements for them
Ensure you can speak English to the required standard
Bring only the luggage you can carry
Bring enough money (GBP) to last until you can open a UK bank account
Arrange accommodation from the day you will arrive
Ram Kushawaha, MSc Mechanical Engineering Design
Niccolet Guerrero, BSc (Hons) Conservation Biology
Polly Hung, MSc Environmental Consultancy

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/student-profiles:
Find out about the experiences of current students and graduates from around the world.
Student blogs Our student blogs are another good way to get an insight into what it's like to live and study here.
Our international student bloggers regularly post about their experiences at the University of Plymouth.
To read their latest blog posts, and chat to the students directly, visit our Unibuddy page.
Our student blogs are another good way to get an insight into what it's like to live and study here.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/student-life/upsu:
Discover our cafes, study areas, bars, nightclub, and shop
From quiz nights to weekly nightclub events, find out what's going on at the UPSU
We have almost 50 different sports clubs on offer, from rowing, kickboxing and stand up paddleboarding to clay pigeon shooting, golf and Jiu Jitsu
Our students have logged over 10,000 hours of volunteering, find out how you could get involved
SU: Advice is dedicated to supporting you throughout your university journey, offering valuable guidance and assistance on a wide range of issues, all free of charge
Discover the ways you can actively engage with UPSU and contribute to the support of students at Plymouth

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/facts-and-figures:
Rated TEF Gold across the board in September 2023 for teaching quality and student experience
Millions invested in hands-on, cutting edge facilities including Babbage Building, InterCity Place and Fitzroy Building
Ranked among the UK’s top 25 universities for career prospects (source: Whatuni 2025)
The first university in the UK to achieve accreditation from the International Accreditation Council for Business Education (IACBE)
The first university to be awarded the Social Enterprise Mark
We oversee a £100m network of business support facilities, including incubation, innovation and science park infrastructure
Plymouth Compass – future-facing attributes to help navigate the whole university experience
Over 4,500 University of Plymouth students per year benefit from placements and work-based learning
~ Every student is allocated a personal tutor for academic and pastoral matters
28 National Teaching Fellowships in HE since 2000
UPSU awarded the Best Student Venue in the City and accredited with Highly Commended Best Late Night venue in the Best Bar None Awards 2023
One of the most friendly vegan universities in the UK (source: PETA UK)
One of the UK's most affordable cities for students (source: WhatUni)
More than three quarters of our research ranked either World-Leading or Internationally Excellent in the 2021 Research Excellence Framework (REF)
A three-time winner of the Queen's Anniversary Prize for Higher and Further Education, most recently in 2019 for marine microplastics pollution research
Recognised with the European Commission’s HR Excellence in Research Award for sustained commitment to supporting researchers’ careers
United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals
Ranked 3rd in the UK for the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goal number 3: good health and well-being
Ranked 4th in the UK for the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goal number 7: affordable and clean energy
Ranked 5th in the UK for the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goal number 14: responsible consumption and production
Winner of two Green Gown Awards 2024 in recognition of our long-held commitment to sustainability research, education and action
' One of just six institutions internationally to receive a Global Showcase award from the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS)
Drake’s Place historic gardens and reservoir – Green Flag Award Winner
' The House and Marine Station building projects are BREEAM Excellent (an environmental assessment method rating system for buildings)
48% of waste recycled in 2023–24
@ Our Students' Union has NUS Green Impact ‘Excellence Outstanding’ status
' Achieved ISO 14001 accreditation for all our operations on the Plymouth campus since 2009
2 54% reduction in CO2e emissions since 1990
' We are a zero landfill University
Ranked in the top 25 1st Class Universities for sustainability (People and Planet University League 2024/25)
Our campus cafes received a Three Star rating (the highest possible) from the Sustainable Restaurant Association in the Food Made Good report 2024
The University's Peninsula Medical School was ranked within the top 20 in the UK for 2025 by the Planetary Health Report Card Initiative
A Over 19,000 students
A Over 2,500 staff
* £239.4m annual turnover
£24m contracting with local businesses
, Founded in 1862 as the School of Navigation
< 150 partnerships with institutions from 30 countries for collaborations in teaching and research
7,500 studying for a Plymouth degree at partner institutions in the UK and around the world
An alumni community with 181,000 graduates pursuing their careers globally
@ 58% of academic staff are PhD qualified
The first and only post-1992 university to launch its own medical and dental school
_ The Peninsula Dental School was the first in the UK to achieve RCS Surgical Education Centre accreditation

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/global-opportunities:
articulations@plymouth.ac.uk
incomingexchange@plymouth.ac.uk
outgoingexchange@plymouth.ac.uk
elc@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/international-agent-toolkit:
Everything you need to know about living as a student in Plymouth
Reasons to study at Plymouth: our university in numbers
Discover our range of accommodation options and find out how to apply as an international student

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/algeria:
If you're a student from Algeria thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
It’s so easy to meet and establish friendships with people of different cultures, nationalities, upbringings at the university – all it takes is to approach a person and a conversation will ignite.
There are so many opportunities to grow and evolve as a person.
There’s so much room to try new things and conquer some of your fears, it’s a great stepping stone before you enter into the real world and they will ensure you are as well prepared as you can be.
The International Student Advice team is always available to help.
Various sessions are held to help international students get to know each other and interact with fellow students.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/botswana:
If you're a student from Botswana thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/ethiopia:
If you're a student from Ethiopia thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/africa/egypt:
If you're a student from Egypt thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
I loved the look of the city and it seemed very homely.
The University’s ranking and reviews were good and being by the sea was captivating.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/ghana:
Thinking of applying to study with us from Ghana?
Find all the essential information you need here
Plymouth is a very serene city with very friendly people...
I am convinced that the University possesses the quality of education and diversity in student body that can best help me fulfil my goals.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/kenya:
If you're a student from Kenya thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/malawi:
If you're a student from Malawi thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
There is so much to do at the University, with all the clubs, societies, and all your course mates that you will never feel alone.
The University of Plymouth not only provides you with an education but also with an experience of self-discovery and opportunities of personal development.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/mauritius:
If you're a student from Mauritius thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/morocco:
If you're a student from Morocco thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
There is so much to do at the University that with all the clubs, societies and all your course mates you'll never feel alone.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/namibia:
If you're a student from Namibia thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/africa/nigeria:
If you're a student from Nigeria thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/south-africa:
If you're a student from South Africa thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
Being an International Student, the University treats you just like any other student, which is great.
There are so many other International Students so you get to hear their stories as well...
you are there to enjoy your time like any other student in England.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/tanzania:
If you're a student from Tanzania thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/uganda:
If you're a student from Uganda thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
It’s so easy to meet and establish friendships with people of different cultures, nationalities and upbringings at the University.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/zimbabwe:
If you're a student from Zimbabwe thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/zambia:
If you're a student from Zambia thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/barbados:
If you're a student from Barbados thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
The University helped me tremendously with settling in – I was able to meet new people at the events they held for international students.
I especially liked the tea and scones and dinner they provided for us.
The University of Plymouth not only provides you with an education, but also with an experience of self-discovery and opportunities of personal development.
am so grateful for the opportunity!
I enjoyed having discussions in the classroom and being with groups of like-minded people who were focused on teaching and learning and professional development.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/the-americas/brazil:
If you're a student from Brazil thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
Very few universities provided the option of a placement with my course.
That, along with the fact that Plymouth has an amazing night life and culture, made my decision simple.
When I moved to Plymouth as an international student I always received the due support from the University.
They explained all of the necessary aspects for a foreign student to adapt and integrate better.
My degree has had a huge impact on my career… it’s crucial to be able to impose yourself and do your best when it comes to applying for the job of your dreams.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/canada:
If you're a student from Canada thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
I adjusted to living and studying in the UK quite quickly, I have always been an independent and driven individual so I was excited to be here and explore a culture different from mine.
Being an international student, making a move to study in an entirely different country was a huge decision and by far the best I’ve taken.
It’s easy to meet and make friendships with people of different cultures, nationalities, upbringings at the university, all it takes is approaching a person and a conversation will ignite.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/mexico:
If you're a student from Mexico thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
Be open to trying new things.
Even if you are shy, I would encourage international students to make it a goal to get out of their comfort zone and meet new people.
It’s easy to meet and make friendships with people of different cultures, nationalities and upbringings at the University; all it takes is approaching a person and a conversation will ignite.
I would recommend undertaking a course with the University of Plymouth because there are many course options so there is something for everyone.
The lecturers are passionate about their subject and that’s inspiring.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/peru:
If you're a student from Peru thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here.
It’s so easy to meet and make friendships with people of different cultures, nationalities, upbringings at the university – all it takes is to approach a person and a conversation will ignite.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/trinidad-and-tobago:
If you're a student from Trinidad and Tobago thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/united-states-of-america:
If you're a student from the USA thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
I grew up in a small town that is mostly farms and universities.
I had never been to England before and I had never lived on the coast.
It has been such a wonderful experience that I have decided to stay in the country for longer.
Being an international student here feels very welcoming.
I have made friends from all over the world due to the high international population.I have had the chance to learn about different cultures and world views.
The University gave me loads of support and assistance before I arrived, making sure all my visa documents were in order.
Having a helpful, friendly, and responsive team made my journey to Plymouth much easier.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/bangladesh:
If you're a student from Bangladesh thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
I was really impressed with the way the University works and handles situations...
I believe the experience and exposure I gained during my programme strengthened my willingness to choose Plymouth for my doctoral studies.
There is so much that I love about the University of Plymouth.
24/7 access to library is the best thing.
There are also a number of societies that help you to make friends, indulge in your hobbies, and improve your skills.
It is quite different to stay here in Plymouth compared to Bangladesh.
It is an incredibly beautiful city with nice and friendly people, so anyone can settle down in a brief period.
There is a lot to do, visit and enjoy in Plymouth and the best part is the ocean that is not too far from the University.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/brunei:
If you're a student from Brunei thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
The best advice I can give anyone considering Plymouth: go with a really open mind-set.
You only experience university once...
go for it, try new things and make new friends.
Every day at Plymouth I discover more about the world.
I urge everyone to study with passion and to always seek out new and interesting ways to gain and develop your knowledge.
I would say that at the University of Plymouth, you will always have someone who will help and support you to achieve great things.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/china:
If you're a student from China thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
Find us on WeChat Join us on WeChat by using using the account details below or scan our QR code.
Account name: 英国普利茅斯大学 Account no: universityofplymouth
Join us on WeChat by using using the account details below or scan our QR code.
Account name: 英国普利茅斯大学
Account no: universityofplymouth

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/hong-kong:
If you're a student from Hong Kong thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
Shun Lam Wong
Nga Laam Tam

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/india:
If you're a student from India thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/indonesia:
If you're a student from Indonesia thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
Plymouth is a beautiful and peaceful city; the view from Plymouth Hoe is simply magnificent.
Adapting culturally was never a problem because of the friendly locals.
Everyone was really warm and welcoming right from day one and this helped me settle down a lot quicker.
Plymouth has everything you could want.
The University is in the city centre, surrounded by shops, restaurants and the beautiful Barbican.
It's also only a short journey away from Dartmoor National Park and picturesque Cornwall!

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/japan:
If you're a student from Japan thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
There is so much to do at the University.
With all the clubs, societies and all your course mates, you'll never feel alone.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/malaysia:
If you're a student from Malaysia thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
I would definitely recommend coming to Plymouth if you’re looking for a good education and a wonderful experience.
The facilities offered by the University are very good; from the library to the laboratories, everything was very pleasing and all of the lecturers are very helpful as well.
International Student Advice (ISA) provide amazing help to international students.
They help you to make the most out of your time in Plymouth, and are always there if you need guidance or advice.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/nepal:
If you're a student from Nepal thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
If you choose the University of Plymouth, you're never going to regret it.
It's been six or seven months; everybody has been helpful.
Interaction has been good, and everyone was helpful in the first place.
The folks here are extremely patient and give much of their time.
Reaching out to others, including teaching and support staff as well as other students, has given me so much.
Don’t be afraid to go out and mingle with people.
Join the clubs and societies you are interested in.
Lastly, don’t forget the most important part: to work hard for your course, because that is the main reason you are here.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/pakistan:
If you're a student from Pakistan thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/philippines:
If you're a student from the Philippines thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/russia:
If you're a student from Russia thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
University of Plymouth caught my eye.
Firstly, for its friendliness and openness of staff and secondly for its location within the city, which is perfect for studying and student life.
I think this would be the best advice I can give anyone considering Plymouth: go with a really open mind-set.
You only experience university once.
Go for it, try new things and make new friends!
Honestly, being international doesn’t feel any different from being a local student.
The student body is diverse and my friends are a mix of local and international students.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/singapore:
If you're a student from Singapore thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
I always liked the calming environment in Plymouth.
During my free time, I used to take a walk on the Hoe or spent time with my friends just exploring Plymouth.
I look back on my time in Plymouth fondly...
the best advice I can give anyone considering Plymouth is to go with a really open mind-set, try new things and make new friends.
I can say that both Plymouth and the University are a safe space to be in and to study at, with welcoming and helpful locals and students, so I encourage other international students to not be too nervous about being in a new place.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/south-korea:
If you're a student from South Korea thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/sri-lanka:
If you're a student from Sri Lanka thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
I was really impressed with the way the University works and handles situations.
My decision to do my MSc in Plymouth was a firm choice and I believe the experience and exposure I gained during my programme strengthened my willingness to choose Plymouth for my doctoral studies.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/taiwan:
If you're a student from Taiwan thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/thailand:
If you're a student from Thailand thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/uzbekistan:
If you're a student from Uzbekistan thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
Study in a city where you won’t find anyone else from your country.
Keep your values, but open your mind to learn from, and become part of, the local community.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/vietnam:
If you're a student from Vietnam thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/australia:
If you're a student from Australia thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/new-zealand:
If you're a student from New Zealand thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
Studying at the University of Plymouth has allowed me to show employers that I have the confidence to put myself in a foreign environment, outside of my comfort zone.
I have expanded my network beyond my home country and have loved every second of it.
Arriving in Plymouth was not as stressful as I thought it might be.
My best advice is to mingle with people and get to know as many interesting humans as possible.
University is a unique experience where you are surrounded by diverse opinions and people of interesting backgrounds.
I recommend fully immersing yourself in that experience.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/belgium:
If you're a student from Belgium thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/cyprus:
If you're a student from Cyprus thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
Being part of the the University of Plymouth family, has really kept me focused, dedicated and devoted.
With the support and guidance of my lecturers, I graduated with a First class honours degree, proving that the “language barrier” was never a barrier!

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/denmark:
If you're a student from Denmark thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
Plymouth has something for everyone, whether it would be partying, sports, art or simply making friends and contacts.
In addition, it is close to the sea which is great for anyone who loves sailing.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/finland:
If you're a student from Finland thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
I would encourage international students to make the most of their time, by participating in events on campus and talking to their professors about any studying issues, and take advantage of the facilities.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/france:
If you're a student from France thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
You will meet many people doing the same things as you.
The lecturers are great, the facilities are amazing and the waterfront is the icing on the cake.
I would definitely recommend the University of Plymouth to any international student.
Staff and lecturers are attentive and understand issues that foreign students can encounter.
As the campus is large and welcomes a lot of students from completely different backgrounds, it facilitates the meeting of new people.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/germany:
If you're a student from Germany thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/greece:
If you're a student from Greece thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
I never found it difficult being an international student, since the lecturers are always willing to help you.
Coming to the University of Plymouth gives you the opportunity to meet students from other countries with cultures different to yours.
Choosing Plymouth for my undergraduate studies was one of the best choices I made.
The University is one of the most modern universities in the UK...
it offers a variety of degrees to help you stand out from the crowd.
The University is a great place to get to know people from all over the world.
I would recommend studying here because it's an advanced institution that makes sure that all students are satisfied in their academic and social life.
Plymouth is a great place to study.
Not only are the facilities modern, but the staff, both academic and administrative, are always there to assist you and to provide guidance and support.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/italy:
If you're a student from Italy thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/latvia:
If you're a student from Latvia thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/lithuania:
If you're a student from Lithuania thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
I believe the quality of education at the university empowers students to achieve the best of their potential as long as they dedicate their efforts to studying and completing their coursework assignments.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/netherlands:
If you're a student from the Netherlands thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
I would recommend studying here because it is a really advanced institution that makes sure that all students are satisfied in their academic and social life.
This is going to give you much more than a degree, it will give you new friends, a new cultural experience and so much more.
I am someone who loves adventure and meeting new people, so I was eager to have a new experience living in a new country.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/norway:
If you're a student from Norway thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
Fortunately, there are other students from Norway at the University of Plymouth, so I had no problem making friends.
The teachers and staff were also accommodating when I first started my studies.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/portugal:
If you're a student from Portugal thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
I would recommend undertaking a course with the University of Plymouth because there are many course options so there is something for everyone, and no matter what area of teaching the lecturers are passionate about their subject and that’s inspiring.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/romania:
If you're a student from Romania thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
Studying at Plymouth was one of the best decisions I have ever made.
I have improved and developed both my technical and my interpersonal skills, and that has opened up a whole new world to me.
I gained a lot of confidence and was able to step into the corporate world with the right attitude.
I chose to continue my studies at the University following recommendations, as well as doing my own homework about its achievements, infrastructure, and support provided to its students...
Both the history of the city and the University’s outstanding results give students a sense of pride studying at Plymouth.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/spain:
If you're a student from Spain thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
Plymouth was a very comfortable and student-friendly university that gave me every opportunity to develop.
It was always very useful to know that you had your lecturers to ask for advice or some kind of support.
They were always very approachable and supportive.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/sweden:
If you're a student from Sweden thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
I would recommend the University due to its incredible infrastructure, high-level professors, great location and amazing people.
I have made friends from all over the world due to the high international population.
I have had the chance to learn about different cultures and world views.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/switzerland:
If you're a student from Switzerland thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
The University of Plymouth offers a wide range of opportunities.
There is also a lot of support on offer for international students to help cope in a different cultural environment.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/turkey:
If you're a student from Turkey thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
I believe that the courses at Plymouth are some of the best in the world, especially the maritime courses.
I would suggest that students make the most of the lecturers and materials available on the course and make as many connections as possible.
Plymouth was the beginning of my studies.
The University of Plymouth built my foundations, widened my horizons and enriched my knowledge, not only in architecture, but also in other fields.
The English Language Centre delivered workshops not only on academic aspects of language but also on numerous social activities, which help you to adapt to life in the UK.
The International Office is always caring and the staff are remarkably friendly.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/bahrain:
If you're a student from Bahrain thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
The University treats you just like any other student, which is great.
It is modern and constantly adapting to promote diversity and meet its students' needs, something my friends and I all love about it.
I am convinced that the University of Plymouth possesses the quality of education and diversity in student body that can best help me fulfil my goals.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/iran:
If you're a student from Iran thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/jordan:
If you're a student from Jordan thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
Both Plymouth and the University are a safe space to be in and to study at, with welcoming and helpful locals and students, so I encourage other international students to not be too nervous about being in a new place.
I would highly recommend getting involved in anything and everything you can here.
You will have the freedom to experience lots of different things.
I'd recommend joining a club or society, and if you can’t find one that appeals to your interests, consider starting your own!
I would recommend the University due to its incredible infrastructure, high-level professors, great location and amazing people...
By studying abroad for a year, I realised that I had chosen the right path!

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/kuwait:
If you're a student from Kuwait thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
The University of Plymouth not only provides you with an education, but also with an experience of self-discovery and opportunities of personal development, both within and outside of your academic discipline.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/lebanon:
If you're a student from Lebanon thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
From my first interaction with representatives of the University, I knew that this would be a fun, interactive and welcoming environment which would help me to do my best in my degree, but also enjoy myself outside of classes.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/oman:
If you're a student from Oman thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/qatar:
If you're a student from Qatar thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
The meet and greet service helped me settle in and understand everything I needed to prepare, such as open a bank account and navigate around campus.
I received a lot of useful advice that I ended up using throughout the years.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/saudi-arabia:
If you're a student from Saudi Arabia thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/study/international-students-country-guides/united-arab-emirates:
If you're a student from United Arab Emirates thinking of coming to study in Plymouth, you'll find all the essential information you need right here
I have had excellent support from lecturers, tutors and support staff throughout my studies.
I have been so inspired and empowered in course-related discussions...
My horizons and networks have been broadened, especially by interactions associated with my research project.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/atas:
ATAS is for applicants studying specific technology-related fields who require immigration permission to study in the UK

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/working-in-the-uk:
EU/EEA Students with Pre-Settled or Settled Status
If you are a national of one of the full European Economic Area (EEA) member states or Switzerland and have Pre-Settled or Settled Status, you do not need permission to work in the UK and there are no restrictions on the number of hours you can work.
EU/EEA students without Pre-Settled or Settled Status
If you did not exercise your rights before 11pm on 31 December 2020, you may still be eligible to apply until 30 June 2021 subject to EUSS conditions.
Please contact ISA if you are not sure.
If you are not eligible to apply for the EUSS and your course is 6 months or longer, you will need a Student visa.
Please refer to the Tier 4/Student visa holders for restrictions on employment.
The EU Settlement Scheme (EUSS) was introduced to allow EU/EEA nationals and their family members to apply to continue living and working in the UK after 1 January 2021.
You will need to have Pre-Settled or Settled Status in the UK to continue exercising your EU rights after 11pm on 31 December 2020.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/compliance/current-student/contact-details:
It is a requirement of your Student (formerly Tier 4) visa to keep your contact details up to date.
These must include a UK residential address, telephone number, mobile telephone number and personal email address.
Please ensure that you check and update your details regularly.
The instructions for how to do this are provided in the videos below.
Changing your personal details – step 1 Log into your account Navigate to the top of the screen and under 'additional details' select 'maintain contact details'.
You are now ready to update your address and telephone contact details.
Changing your personal details – step 2 The video shows what each section looks like, so all you have to do is add the specific address to the correct field.
For your UK address you can use the postcode lookup tool.
Remember to add your personal email address and your mobile number.
The mobile number must be recorded to show how we would call you from the UK.
Remember to tick the confirmation box before saving, if you don’t, none of your information will be saved.
Don’t forget to complete the other sections, this is done in exactly the same way.
When completing your contact details please remember:
Student visa obligations
Please visit Student Services , based in the library or email attendance-monitoring@plymouth.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/compliance/right-to-study-check-and-enrolment:
You hold a Student visa that was granted digitally
You hold a British citizen passport (not British Overseas Territories citizen or British National (Overseas))
You hold settled or pre-settled status under the EU Settlement Scheme
You hold settled or pre-settled status granted by the Government of Jersey or Guernsey (Channel Islands)
You are coming to the University of Plymouth to study for six months or less, such as on an exchange programme
You are an Erasmus+ student with a Government Authorised Exchange visa
You have an outstanding immigration application with UKVI
You hold another type of immigration permission
Online enrolment
International student welcome
Induction
Compliance information for international students
UKVI-Reporting@plymouth.ac.uk
UKVI Compliance Team, Academic Registry, University of Plymouth, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/welcome/international:
We know that it is easy to feel confused or lost when you arrive in the UK.
Visit the Student Hub in the campus library if you need help.
Our friendly staff are happy to welcome you and answer any questions.
Familiarise yourself with campus surroundings and start to feel settled.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/services/student-hub:
Career development support for students and graduates to build their skills, find part-time work, get experience, make contacts, and more
Counselling and mental health support
Writing and academic skills support, peer-assisted learning, and more
Providing support for students with an impairment, health condition or disability
Funding opportunities, such as scholarships and bursaries, and support with the cost of living
A welcoming environment for all students, whether you think of yourself as spiritual, religious, a person of faith or of no faith at all
Providing primary care services to University students through a purpose-built GP surgery on campus
Providing support with visas and preparing international students for life in the UK
Offering a range of courses to help you develop your academic English language skills before and during your studies
£1,793,000 provided to students (including Financial Support Fund, Mayflower and Care Leaver Awards)
4,652 individual careers appointments
4,882 wellbeing, counselling and mental health appointments
1,628 disability appointments (including LADS tests, specific learning difficulties, disability and study skills)
2,295 international student advice appointments

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/international-student-accommodation:
Francis Drake Hall
Gilwell Hall
Pilgrim Hall
Radnor Hall
Robbins Hall
Mary Newman Hall
By appointment only / Phone lines open 10:00–14:00, Monday – Friday

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/exchange-opportunities/outgoing-exchanges:
Research shows that students who study or work abroad during their degree are more likely to achieve at a higher academic level, get a job and earn more when they graduate, are more international in their lives and show greater personal development.
We've put together a list of our exchange partners listed by subject area to help you get a feel for current exchange opportunities.
You can search for suitable partners and programmes at ISEP Program Finder.
Find out about the costs of studying, living and working abroad, and what funding opportunities are available to you.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/exchange-opportunities/incoming-exchanges:
Within my first two days I’d made new friends from all over the world, including India, France and Norway, and loved the local area – I knew I had to stay for full year.
Thankfully the team have made it a reality, and it’s amazing.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/penctu:
Contact us Please contact us as early as possible so we can help you plan your research and include the costs of our support in your grant application.
PenCTU does not provide funding for research.
If you need help with an existing study, please ensure you have sufficient funds to meet the costs of our support.
Email: penctu@plymouth.ac.uk Telephone: +44 1752 439831 Address: Peninsula Clinical Trials Unit Faculty of Health University of Plymouth Room N16 ITTC 1 Building Plymouth Science Park Plymouth Devon PL6 8BX Map of Plymouth Science Park
Please contact us as early as possible so we can help you plan your research and include the costs of our support in your grant application.
Email:
penctu@plymouth.ac.uk
Telephone:
+44 1752 439831
Address:
Peninsula Clinical Trials Unit Faculty of Health University of Plymouth Room N16 ITTC 1 Building Plymouth Science Park Plymouth Devon PL6 8BX
Map of Plymouth Science Park
How are treatment outcomes for people with severe obesity ImPROved by GROUP-based behavioural intervention?
RCT of the LoDED (Limit of Detection of Troponin & ECG Discharge) strategy versus usual care in adult chest pain patients attending the A&E department.
Establishing a biobank and database as a national resource for characterising indolent and aggressive forms of mantle cell lymphoma.
Teen Online Problem Solving for adolescents who have survived a brain injury in the UK (TOPS-UK): a feasibility study.
Novel use of tranexamic acid to reduce the need for nasal packing in epistaxis.
A randomised controlled trial exploring the effects of adding web-based coaching to an exercise referral scheme as a way to increase physical activity.
Postural modification to the standard Valsalva Manoeuvre for the emergency treatment of SVT (REVERT): a randomised controlled trial (RCT).
An open randomised trial of patient controlled analgesia (PCA) versus routine care in the emergency department.
Scrutinising treatments for knee pain.
Simvastatin as a neuroprotective treatment for Parkinson’s disease – a double-blind, placebo controlled clinical learning study in patients of moderate severity.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/facilities/bloomberg-interactive-learning-suite:
Location: Fitzroy Building
The Bloomberg terminals can increase your skills as you can learn and study a system which is used within large multinational organisations and financial institutions.
Access to such software at university allows one to learn and develop essential analytical skills required for a career in such a fast-paced environment.
You can practice with virtual investment portfolios to fully experience, learn and reflect on decisions and the outcomes.
When looking for a career in the financial markets, access to and experience in such decisions is key to stand out from the crowd.The most interesting and beneficial aspect of the whole Bloomberg system is the sheer amount of real data and accurate information available which is priceless when completing real-world business case studies!
Our suite helps to bridge the gap between the hypothetical and the practice, with students having the opportunity to apply academic theories to decision making through real world scenarios.
It also enables them to work towards Bloomberg’s self-certification programme whereby students can in their own time work towards a certificate in Bloomberg proficiency.
Irrespective of their future careers, attaining the certificate will enhance student employability.
Dr Magda Kochanowicz Project Manager of the Bloomberg Trading Floor

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/security/seapower-and-strategy:
fotios.moustakis@plymouth.ac.uk
+44 7919 566810
3 Portland Villas, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/business-partners/partnerships/business-partnerships/cornwall-commerce:
Visit the Cornwall Chamber of Commerce website .
Cornwall Chamber of Commerce

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/business-partners/partnerships/business-partnerships/cornwall-innovation:
From start-ups to mature enterprises, we've got the dynamic places and spaces you need to help you and your business to innovate and grow
Our three Innovation Centres support all growth, knowledge and innovation-led businesses at every stage of development, especially those in the media, creative, eco, environmental, and health and wellbeing sectors.
You'll find our facilities at:
They offer:
The management of all three centres is delivered by University of Plymouth on behalf of Cornwall Council.
Cornwall Innovation has been supported by the European Regional Development Fund Convergence Programme.
The Cube

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/business-partners/dartmoor-search-and-rescue-team-plymouth:
It was great how everyone got involved and how at ease and comfortable everybody was together.
The training session that we went along to allowed members practising their skills on a stretcher exercise.
We were asked to take part and enjoyed a nice trip up and down a hill whilst being strapped to the three different types of stretchers.
We were treated as if we were a proper casualty and all of the members of the team took it very seriously, so that if they ever needed to put this exercise into action they would be more than ready.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/business-partners/dartmoor-zoological-park:
After a talk that Adam Cook gave to the psychology students about placements at Dartmoor Zoo, I knew that I had to be one of their placement students because I was really interested in the freedom the zoo gave the students to research topics that we are interested in.
My role was to conduct research with other students, one of our goals being to help contribute to the zoo's knowledge of the animals and help increase their welfare by learning about and understanding their behaviour.
One of the projects that I worked on was investigating whether animals could possess a sense of humour.
I would say the most challenging aspect of my placement at Dartmoor Zoo was staying organised as there is a lot to do and you’re more in charge of yourself than you are used to.
However my favourite memory was watching the meerkats play with their sand enrichment and coming out looking like they had rolled in fake tan.
Dartmoor Zoological Park

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/business-partners/childrens-university:
Collect stamps in your Passport to Learning for each hour of an activity that you do, and when you get 30 we will give you a bronze certificate!
Collect 65 and we will give you a silver certificate.
Get all the way up to 100 and we will give you a gold certificate, and not just that, but we will invite you and your family along to the University of Plymouth where you will graduate.
Don’t stop there though.
You can collect awards and certificates right up to 1000 hours!
As well as certificates we also have CU Badges that you will receive with your certificates.
Wear them to school and show off your achievements.
devoncu@plymouth.ac.uk
Children's University, University of Plymouth, Drake Circus, Plymouth, Devon, PL4 8AA.
8:30–17:00
DevonChildUni

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/business-partners/devon-and-cornwall-rail-partnership:
Email us on: railpart@plymouth.ac.uk
Check out our twitter: @DCRailPart
The Devon and Cornwall Rail Partnership is a non-profit partnership between University of Plymouth, Cornwall Council, Devon County Council, Plymouth City Council and the rail industry, working to:
Thanks to the partnership, the rural branch lines of the two counties have a robust train service and are busier now than they have ever been.
Partnership initiatives include the popular Tamar Valley Line Carnet books of tickets.
The partnership has been recognised many times for its work nationally at the Community Rail Awards with the volunteer projects winning awards in a number of categories including Involving Young People and Volunteer of the Year.
The partnership has a number of opportunities for students to get involved, including regular volunteering projects along the Tamar and Looe Valley lines where students work to improve stations, reduce fear of crime and anti-social behaviour for the benefit of the local community.
These projects allow students to develop a range of skills including team work, time management, plant care and recognition, building and maintenance and safe use of tools, enhancing their employability.
Many have gone on to secure full-time jobs within the rail industry.
The partnership supports University initiatives such as ‘The Time Travelling Train on the Tamar Valley Line’ and ‘ Moor to Sea without your car ’ student-led publications, and these continue to be promoted through their work.
The book contains 11 walks that range from an afternoon stroll to a challenging hike, which can be sustainably reached by public transport.
The partnership has had considerable success in attracting grant funding from UK and EU sources.
Representing the University as Lead Partner, the partnership ran the EU Interreg 'Citizens’ Rail' Project from 2012–2015.
This involved partners from Lancashire, Germany, the Netherlands and France working together with local communities on a range of projects to develop local and regional railways, and was a 9.03 million Euro investment (£6.45 million).
Annual UK funding of around £200,000 to the partnership comes from a range of sources including the partner bodies themselves and grant funding pots such as the Designated Community Rail Development Fund.
More information
www.greatscenicrailways.com

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/business-partners/partnerships/business-partnerships/devon-and-plymouth-chamber-of-commerce:
Devon and Plymouth Chamber of Commerce

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/global-health-collaborative:
Masanga Hospital
Royal Cornwall Hospital NHS Trust
Torbay and South Devon NHS Foundation Trust
Future Health Africa
Wessex Global Health Network
Virtual Doctors
Tropical Health Education Trust (THET)
Health Education England: Global engagement
Siddhasthali Rural Community Hospital
Faculty of Dental Sciences - University of Peradeniya

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/student-life/your-studies/academic-services/education-partnerships:
Primary partnerships
Further education and skills partnerships information and resources
Whether you’re a student teacher with a question about your placement, or a school/college looking for advice, the Institute of Education’s Initial Teacher Education (ITE) Placements and Partnership Team are here to help.
We manage and support:
Plymouth Institute of Education

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/mayflower-voyage:
How inappropriate to call this planet Earth , when clearly it is Ocean .
Arthur C.
Clarke
Over 70% of the Earth’s surface is water.
The oceans that surround us today – and for much of the planet’s 4.6-billion-year history – comprise our planet’s largest ecosystem, showcasing an infinitely rich spectrum of marine life.
Oceans do much more than simply provide a home for giant mammals and microorganisms to live side by side.
Their natural forces drive weather systems, regulate land temperatures and ensure our survival.
Despite the oceans’ omnipresence, more than 80% remains completely unmapped and unexplored.
We need to know more.
Plymouth has a rich tradition of exploration and discovery.
We want to develop innovative new ways of understanding our world.
Sometimes, this means taking inspiration from the past to inform our future.
Voyage to highlight the possibilities of autonomous ocean science If successful, the Mayflower Autonomous Ship (MAS) will be one of the first self-navigating, full-sized vessels to cross the Atlantic and opens the door on a new era of autonomous research ships.
Professor Kevin Jones, Executive Dean of Science and Engineering at the University, said: “Through vessels such as the Mayflower Autonomous Ship and our very own CETUS, the University is at the forefront of using unmanned vessels for cutting-edge ocean science.
This technology has the undoubted potential to be a game changer in the field, enabling us to capture data which can transform our understanding of the oceans and the impact climate change and other factors are having on them.” The research element of the voyage will focus on core areas including marine mammal detection , marine plastics and ocean chemistry .
If successful, the Mayflower Autonomous Ship (MAS) will be one of the first self-navigating, full-sized vessels to cross the Atlantic and opens the door on a new era of autonomous research ships.
Professor Kevin Jones, Executive Dean of Science and Engineering at the University, said:
The research element of the voyage will focus on core areas including marine mammal detection , marine plastics and ocean chemistry .
Find out more about the marine research possibilities using the Mayflower Autonomous Ship
2 Ocean conditions
2 Marine pollution and conservation
2 Meteorology
2 Climatology
2 Marine biology
2 Marine mammal monitoring
2 Autonomous navigation
2 Sea level mapping
2 Maritime cybersecurity
Nurturing a new generation of ocean explorers Ocean exploration doesn’t just take place hundreds of miles off the coast – our cutting-edge marine facilities lie at the threshold of land and sea.
In Plymouth, we are fortunate enough to be blessed with local fieldwork locations that present us with a rich petri dish of marine biodiversity.
Globally relevant marine degrees
Ocean exploration doesn’t just take place hundreds of miles off the coast – our cutting-edge marine facilities lie at the threshold of land and sea.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/business-partners/partnerships/business-partnerships/plymouth-anthology-of-young-peoples-writing:
The University is proud to be supporting the young people's anthology of writing for three years to 2020
Mayflower 400
Plymouth City Council
Children's University national website

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/business-partners/partnerships/business-partnerships/plymouth-manufacturers-group:
Plymouth Manufacturing Group is an informal network of manufacturing companies from across Plymouth and beyond, providing a convenient means of interchange of information, experience and opinion between members and matters affecting the interests of their companies and their employees.
Our partnership recognises existing collaborations between University of Plymouth and PMG members, particularly in providing internship and graduate opportunities for our talented students and alumni, and in Knowledge Transfer Partnerships for which the University has an excellent 20 year track record nationally.
Visit the Plymouth Manufacturers Group website .
Plymouth Manufacturers' Group (PMG)

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/business-partners/partnerships/business-partnerships/plymouth-science-park:
Plymouth Science Park

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/business-partners/south-west-institute-of-technology:
Working in partnership with the University of Plymouth
The project is also supported by both Heart of the South West and the Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly Local Enterprise Partnerships (LEPs).
Heart of the South West
Cornwall & Isles of Scilly Local Enterprise Partnership

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/the-bridge/the-box:
In the heart of Plymouth, a symbol for the city's current regeneration and a museum for the future
Plymouth’s newest history centre project, The Box “What is distinctive about The Box is the spirit of connection,” says Professor Dafydd Moore, Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Business, and the University’s lead representative on the project.
“It is about moving people, mentally and physically, to other places such as Smeaton’s Tower or the Elizabethan House.
It is about allowing Plymothians to reconnect with the history of their city as a whole, and allowing visitors to make sense of the rich historical landscape they are visiting when they spend time in Plymouth.” Read the full article in our alumni magazine, Invenite .
Read the full article in our alumni magazine, Invenite .
The Box, Plymouth
The National Lottery Heritage Fund
Lottery Funded  - Arts Council England
Coastal Communities Fund
The Great British Coast
Garfield Weston Foundation
The Wolfson Foundation
Plymouth, Britain's Ocean City

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/business-partners/university-brazilian-connections-and-caribbean-partners:
The time I spent in Plymouth was enjoyable and memorable for me as I got to improve my English, learn new laboratory techniques and meet people like Doctors Schuwerack, Moody, Katherine Sloman and Paul Ramsay that I will never forget.
I had a specific project to work on, the results of which were presented to researchers in Plymouth and at a conference in Germany.
I also wrote an article which was accepted by the Journal of the Geological Society of London.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/research/education/university-practice-partnerships:
University Practice Partnerships: Sustaining collaboration across learning environments (UPPScale).
Plymouth Institute of Education is working in collaborative partnerships to promote social justice, develop pedagogy and enhancing learners’ experience.
The UPPScale group includes a variety of settings such as alternative, special education and mainstream education and community organisations where we can share expertise and engage in research that make a difference.
Ideas and resources from University of Plymouth staff, students and UPPScale partners.
We hope they inspire you.
We’d love to know what you think of these resources.
You can contact the UPPScale team by emailing uppscale@plymouth.ac.uk .
Many UPPScale projects are connected with PIoE research:

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/careers-and-employment/employer-opportunities:
Contact one of the team today to discuss how we can support your recruitment needs or how we can help raise the profile of your organisation on campus:
Telephone: +44 1752 587729
Email: employers.careers@plymouth.ac.uk
We look forward to hearing from you!

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/business-partners/uk-jiangsu-2020-world-class-university-consortium:
Jointly spearheaded by the British Council, Universities UK, and the Jiangsu Provincial Department of Education, the consortium draws its impetus from the Chinese government’s ‘World-Class Universities and First-Class Disciplines’ initiative, which seeks to develop several of its institutions into world-class universities by 2020.
Jiangsu province, ranked second in terms of GDP out of China’s 23 provinces, has been earmarked as being key to these ambitions and is already home to several of the UK’s flagship ‘one-to-one’ higher education collaborations, such as Xi’an Jiaotong-Liverpool University in Suzhou.
Currently there are 14 UK members and 23 Jiangsu members.
The University of Liverpool is the UK Chair of the UK-Jiangsu World-Class Universities Consortium and facilitates coordination and communication between members, organises activities and plans projects with the Jiangsu Chair.
Objectives To build a platform that will deepen and broaden the level of strategic engagement and collaboration between universities in the UK and Jiangsu.
To raise the profile of higher education in Jiangsu in the UK and of the UK higher education sector in Jiangsu.
To harness multilateral cooperation as a mechanism to raise the quality and competitiveness of the participating institutions; sharing opportunities and addressing shared challenges together.
UK-Jiangsu 20+20 World Class University Consortium

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/business-partners/university-commercial-services-plymouth-ltd:
This section contains UCSP Ltd’s published policies that relate to information governance and GDPR.
These policies are reviewed annually to ensure they remain up to date and relevant in the future.
Information about how the University processes the personal data of UCSP staff.
UCSP Ltd,
16 Endsleigh Place,
Drakes Circus,
Plymouth,
PL4 8AA

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/apprenticeships/senior-leader-degree-apprenticeship:
@ Leadership in healthcare
@ Apply your personal industry specialism to the learning content
@ Support the embedding of this specialism throughout the programme
Strategy
Innovation and change
Enterprise and risk
Decision making
Project management
Shaping the environment
Engaging employees
Leading and developing
People leading and developing people
Building collaborative relationships

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/degree-apprenticeships/health:
We offer a range of flexible and accessible work-based degrees that lead to registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council.
The biggest benefit from this whole course has given me a deep sense of confidence in my ability to serve the public, and it’s given me analytical skills which I now apply across many aspects of my life.
It has been ideal for me as a parent, enabling me to maintain a family work-life balance without getting into huge debt or putting my life on hold.
While it required discipline, time management and study outside of work hours, the rewards are priceless.
So this is an ideal way to train people.
You end up with someone who knows all the stuff but works in the way you would like them to work and fits into your practice well.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/apprenticeships/science-and-engineering:
The Town Planning Apprenticeship helped me to broaden my knowledge of the variety of subject areas within planning.
The inclusion of guest speakers, interactive nature of the lectures, and field trips helped me to understand how our learning could be applied in real-life job roles.
As a direct result of my participation in the programme, I was able to fast-track my membership of the RTPI and become a Chartered Town Planner within ten months of my graduation.
It has also enabled me to progress my career, being promoted to a Senior Planning Officer within my Local Authority.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/news/university-earns-praise-for-quality-of-its-degree-apprenticeships:
This report is a hugely positive endorsement of our degree apprenticeships programme.
It shows that we are meeting the needs of employers in the South West and beyond at a time when they are increasingly looking at ways to upskill their workforce.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/news/meet-the-mother-and-son-nursing-duo-who-graduated-on-the-same-day:
Internal Communications Manager
Working in collaboration with Cornwall Partnership NHS Foundation Trust, we  are delighted to have been able to support Zac and Andrea in their apprenticeship journey.
Mrs Caroline Jamison Associate Professor of Nursing (Education)

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/business-partners/enterprise-solutions/ktp/key-facts:
It has changed the way that the management views automation and efficiency.
In looking at our current processes more closely than before, we are seeing significant ways of reducing costs while improving reliability and profitability.”
Phil Partridge, Oakmount Control Systems Ltd.
Download this page as a PDF

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/business-partners/enterprise-solutions/ktp/success:
The key to our success is innovation.
The University of Plymouth has provided workable solutions using the latest cutting-edge technology, specialist skills and expertise that we would not otherwise have access to.
Find out how businesses benefitted from KTP expertise at the University of Plymouth.
Through KTP Oakmount improved its ability to specify automation production equipment based on customer requirements more accurately and quickly at the tender stage, while integrating new technologies and Industry 4.0 solutions into the business.
Bluefruit, was looking to expand its use of agile and lean software development for application in the medical device market.
Through KTP it bridged the gap between agile and lean methodologies and compliance.
Red Paddle Co sought to improve their products and maintain their premium market status.
We introduced a talented graduate to the company for a ground-up approach to analysing, re-designing and optimising key components.
Fine Tubes accessed funding to use University of Plymouth's Electron Microscopy equipment for compositional analysis.
Devon dairy business harnesses the university's expertise in understanding the science behind its range of ice creams, creams, cheeses and yoghurts.
Spinnaker sought assistance to help with the design and development of an enhanced wireless charging system that allowed for extended service interval times in markets that have an extended geographical reach.
Plymouth graduate accelerates the uptake of innovative solutions in the construction industry to support the delivery of low carbon buildings.
Plymouth-based Bombardier Transportation undertook a KTP project to develop and design the next generation train detection and signalling system.
Falmouth Harbour Commissioners' (FHC) KTP project with University of Plymouth addressed environmental and socio-economic issues in Falmouth harbour.
Nick Hurst, Chief Executive Officer, Artemis Optical
Reeta Griffiths, KTP Associate, Artemis Optical
David Jenkins, Associate Professor, University of Plymouth

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/whats-on/knowledge-transfer-partnerships-business-information-sessions:
Online via Zoom

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/business-partners/enterprise-solutions/ktp/academics:
The KTP with Red Paddle Co has been highly beneficial for me personally as an academic and for my students.
My industrial experience has previously been in the world of high value, one-off builds.
Being able to bring some of that experience to, and learning about, the world of mass production has been very rewarding.
It has provided me with a more diverse, current knowledge base for my lecturing, providing students with “real world” industrial problems to solve for their final year dissertations
Richard Pemberton, Lecturer in Mechanical and Marine Engineering Design
I’d recommend KTPs to other academics as this provided an opportunity to work in a dynamic setting and, while not that different from academic project management, the deliverable is a solution for industry.
Dr Guido Bugmann Visiting Associate Professor (Reader)
It has been interesting to work with a real company on a real problem.
It was a positive experience working with a friendly business and I was also able to visit one of their customers, to understand more about their use of automated production lines.
Dr Stephen Childe Honorary Associate Researcher

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/business-partners/enterprise-solutions/ktp/graduates:
I would recommend the KTP Associate role to other grads/postgrads because it is an opportunity for personal development, while at the same time transferring knowledge between academia and industry and vice versa.
There is also a high chance of a permanent position within the host company at the end.
Being a KTP Associate is a truly unique opportunity.
With KTP, I’ve had the opportunity to develop both my academic and professional skills as well as contribute towards the future development of this organisation.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/ioanna-papanikolaou:
Innovation Manager
Innovation and Commercialisation (Research, Partnerships and Innovation)
Innovation Funding Manager
Associate Fellow, Higher Education Academy,2018
PRINCE II Practitioner, 2016
Lean Six Sigma, Yellow Belt, 2016
MSc International Logistics and Supply Chain Management, University of Plymouth,2016
MSc Production Management, Technical University of Crete, Greece,2004
ARMA_Professional Association for Research leadership, Management and Administration

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/schools/bridgwater-and-taunton-college:
Bridgwater and Taunton College
(University Centre Somerset) Bath Road Bridgwater TA6 4PZ
+44 1278 441234
info@somerset.ac.uk
https://www.somerset.ac.uk/

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/schools/bcom:
BCNO Group
British College of Osteopathic Medicine (BCOM) 6 Netherhall Gardens London NW3 5RR UK
+44 2074 356464
admissions.bcom@bcnogroup.ac.uk
https://bcnogroup.ac.uk/

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/schools/city-of-bristol:
Study at an award-winning college that’s one of the largest further and higher education colleges in the UK.
Choose from the widest range of career-focused higher education courses in the area.
Enjoy some of the best facilities in the region and explore one of the most vibrant cities in the country.
City of Bristol College
St George's Road Bristol BS1 5UA
+44 1173 125000
enquiries@cityofbristol.ac.uk
http://www.cityofbristol.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/schools/city-college-plymouth:
City College Plymouth
Devonport Plymouth PL1 5QG
+44 1752 305786
info@cityplym.ac.uk
http://www.cityplym.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/schools/cornwall-college:
Cornwall College
(University Centre) Tregonissey Road St Austell PL25 4DJ
+44 8452 232567
enquiries@cornwall.ac.uk
http://www.cornwall.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/schools/exeter-college:
Exeter College
Hele Road Exeter EX4 4JS
+44 1392 400170
info@exe-coll.ac.uk
https://exe-coll.ac.uk/

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/schools/mws-hmtu-hms-drake:
The Hydrographic and Meteorological Training Unit (HMTU) school is located within HMS Drake, part of Her Majesty's Naval Base in Devonport, Plymouth.
MWS – HMTU trains specialist Officers and Ratings of the Royal Navy's Warfare Branch in hydrography, meteorology and oceanography to provide a thorough understanding of the complex physical environment in which the ships, aircraft, submarines and people of the Royal Navy and Royal Marines operate.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/business-partners/partnerships/academic-partnerships/gsm-london:
As a former GSM London student, there are core services that you can request from the University of Plymouth as the validating institution.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/schools/highlands-college-jersey:
Highlands College
(University College Jersey) Highlands Lane, St.
Saviour, Jersey JE1 1HL
+44 1534 608588
ucadmin@highlands.ac.uk
http://www.highlands.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/schools/mla-college:
MLA College
The Merchant St Andrew Street Plymouth PL1 2AX
+44 2039 977555
info@mla.ac.uk
http://www.mla.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/schools/petroc:
Petroc
(University Centre for Northern Devon) Old Sticklepath Hill Barnstaple EX31 2BQ
+44 1271 852422
guidancecentre@petroc.ac.uk
https://www.petroc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/schools/rila-institute-of-health-sciences:
RILA Institute of Health Sciences
73 Newman Street London, W1T 3EJ
+44 2076 373544
admissions@rila.co.uk
http://www.gpcourses.co/
Rila has delivery hubs in United Arab Emirates and India as well as London, UK.
This has opened up opportunities for healthcare professionals which otherwise would be difficult to access.
Importantly, Rila’s delivery is a blend of face to face and online learning, on a part time basis so they can continue to work.
Not only is Rila an Academic Partner of the University of Plymouth but it works closely with other Specialist organisations such as ENT-UK, The Society for Acute Medicine (UK), the Indian Medical Association to promote and delivery high standards of professional development and patient care.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/schools/south-devon-college:
South Devon College
University Centre South Devon Long Road Paignton Devon TQ4 7EJ
+44 8000 213181
university@southdevon.ac.uk
http://www.southdevon.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/schools/strode-college:
Strode College
Church Road Street BA16 0AB.
+44 1458 844400
admissions@strode-college.ac.uk
https://www.strode-college.ac.uk/

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/schools/truro-and-penwith-college:
Truro and Penwith College
(University Centre) College Road Truro TR1 3XX
+44 1872 267061
heenquiry@truro-penwith.ac.uk
https://www.truro-penwith.ac.uk/

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/schools/weymouth-college:
Weymouth and Kingston Maurward College
Cranford avenue Weymouth DT4 7LQ
+44 1305 761100
admissions@weymouth.ac.uk
http://www.weymouth.ac.uk
Located on the stunning Jurassic Coast in Dorset, we are an award-winning Beacon status college consistently scoring above average results in the National Student Survey.
Large enough to offer choice and diversity - yet small enough to welcome you as part of a friendly community - we provide outstanding facilities that make your student experience with us both rewarding and enjoyable.
Our highly qualified course teams have strong links with professional organisations in their respective industries and we have a tremendous track record of graduates progressing to further study or gaining employment in their chosen careers.
To find out what else we can offer, visit the Weymouth College website .

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/schools/bundeswehr-university-munich:
Bundeswehr University Munich
https://www.unibw.de/home-en

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/hku-space:
HKU Space contacts Business Management (full-time) Tel: (00852) 286 78481 Email: penny.wong@hkuspace.hku.hk Business Management (part-time) Tel: (00852) 286 78462 Email: bmplymouth@hkuspace.hku.hk International Supply Chain & Shipping Management Tel: (00852) 286 78318 Email: trade@hkuspace.hku.hk International Trade & Operations Management Tel: (00852) 286 78318 Email: trade@hkuspace.hku.hk Hospitality Management (full-time) Tel: (00852) 252 04607 Email: enquiry_ftplyhtm@hkuspace.hku.hk Hospitality Management (part-time) Tel: (00852) 286 78329 Email: parttimehtm@hkuspace.hku.hk Tourism Management (full-time) Tel: (00852) 252 04607 Email: enquiry_ftplyhtm@hkuspace.hku.hk Tourism Management (part-time) Tel: (00852) 286 78329 Email: parttimehtm@hkuspace.hku.hk
Business Management (full-time)
Tel: (00852) 286 78481 Email: penny.wong@hkuspace.hku.hk
Business Management (part-time)
Tel: (00852) 286 78462 Email: bmplymouth@hkuspace.hku.hk
International Supply Chain & Shipping Management
Tel: (00852) 286 78318 Email: trade@hkuspace.hku.hk
International Trade & Operations Management
Hospitality Management (full-time)
Tel: (00852) 252 04607 Email: enquiry_ftplyhtm@hkuspace.hku.hk
Hospitality Management (part-time)
Tel: (00852) 286 78329 Email: parttimehtm@hkuspace.hku.hk
Tourism Management (full-time)
Tourism Management (part-time)
Hong Kong University School of Professional and Continuing Education (HKU SPACE)

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/schools/international-university-geneva:
International Institute in Geneva
20 Route de Pré-Bois 1215 Geneva Switzerland
+41 2271 07110
info@iig.ch
http://www.iig.ch
International University in Geneva 20 Route de Pré-Bois 1215 Geneva Switzerland
Telephone : +41 22 710 71 10
Email : info@iun.ch
Website : www.iun.ch

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/schools/international-osteopathic-education:
International Osteopathic Education
190 rue Achard, 33 300 Bordeaux - FRANCE
003 3061 7601767
admissions@international-osteopathic-education.com
https://www.international-osteopathic-education.com/

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/schools/kherson-state-maritime-academy:
Kherson State Maritime Academy
Temporary relocation to Kanatna, 99, Odesa City, Odesa Region
+38 0680 58-59-98
ksma@ksma.ks.ua
https://ksma.ks.ua/

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/national-school-of-business-management:
Sri Lankan partners open world-first green town
Tel: +94 (011) 544 5000
National School of Business Management (NSBM)

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/international/peninsula-college-malaysia:
Peninsula College Malaysia

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/business-partners/partnerships/academic-partnerships/study-guide:
Access to our one stop shop for all the information and resources you need as a student at a partner institution
PRIMO is the gateway to our e-resources and journals

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/business-partners/partnerships/academic-partnerships/international-students-study-guide:
Access to our one stop shop for all the information and resources you need as a student at an international partner institution

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/business-partners/enterprise-solutions/use-our-equipment-and-facilities:
Explore other opportunities we can offer your organisation
The Coastal, Ocean and Sediment Transport (COAST) laboratory offers world-class test facilities, including an ocean basin, a coastal basin, two wave and current flumes (35 m and 20 m), a light fluid teaching area as well as various small flumes and tanks.
Our Cyber-SHIP lab is a unique, hardware-based maritime cyber security research and development platform.
We are seeking additional partners to collaborate with us in building maritime cyber threat resilience.
The Immersive Visualisation Suite features a hybrid, virtual reality enabled visualisation system that will support a diversity of users from across the University and the wider industrial community.
Our Maritime Simulation Laboratory is a world-leading facility for research and development in the marine field.
The Laboratory offers an innovative networking solution to allow real-time collaboration between multiple simulators, software, or hardware.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/business-partners/enterprise-solutions/collaboration-opportunities:
The Centre brings together a vibrant community of transdisciplinary researchers, working towards addressing the challenge of sustainably feeding a global population of 9 billion.
Work with us to access the definitive place to test, trial and deploy renewable energy technology.
Together we will reduce development costs and empower your organisation to de-risk, decarbonise and optimise operations.
Internationally renowned Centre of Excellence for research into low-grade brain tumours.
This support from the University of Plymouth has helped develop an intelligent monitoring system that will benefit millions of cotton farmers.
It will also address the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, improve income, end poverty, and address the climate crisis.
Sustainable Earth Institute

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/facilities/babbage-building/use-babbage:
A 180kph sub-sonic wind tunnel, rolling road dynamometer, and numerous other experimental equipment
Perform structural testing of large engineering components, fabricated from a range of engineering materials
A hybrid, virtual reality enabled visualisation system
A state-of-the-art facility dedicated to exploring the structure and properties of materials
Supporting research in robotic vehicles and control systems
A cutting-edge facility dedicated to research and development in nanotechnology
A facility for manufacturing and evaluating engineering components with thermoset composite materials
View the laboratories where our students are working with our experts to develop their skills and solve real-world issues

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/facilities/coast-laboratory:
Location: Marine Building
Explore some of the projects our researchers use the facility for
Our students benefit from dedicated time in the lab, exploring and utilising a wide range of state-of-the-art facilities and resources
Find out how our facility is used by commercial companies
Discover the facilities available, from our ocean basin to our wave flumes
Explore the large range of instrumentation and data acquisition hardware and software
coastlab@plymouth.ac.uk
Marine Building
James Street
Plymouth
PL4 6EQ

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/facilities/plymouth-electron-microscopy-centre:
emc@plymouth.ac.uk
+44 1752 586125
Plymouth Electron Microscopy Centre,
University of Plymouth,
9 Research Way,
Plymouth,
PL6 8BT
Analytical and sample preparation equipment
Analytical and sample preparation techniques
Published research by collaborators and outreach

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/rich-adams:
Head of Enterprise and Commercialisation
Research Impact and Partnerships (Research & Innovation)
MA Business Leadership & Management
Director of Devon & Plymouth Chamber of Commcerce

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/david-mozley:
Intellectual Property Manager
Specialist Advisor (IP) I am responsible for providing advice and support on Intellectual Property Rights in relation to research that is carried out by staff and students at Plymouth University.
As part of this role I can: ·         Identify whether there are any registered rights that should be secured (Patents, Registered Design Rights or Trademarks) or whether any unregistered rights can be relied upon (copyright, unregistered design rights, database right or know-how) ·         Assist in the filing of registered rights (Patents, Registered Designs, Trademarks) ·         Determine whether the invention has commercial value ·         Ensure future rights are protected through the use of Non Confidential Agreements and Material Transfer Agreements ·         Commercialise IPR through licensing or the support of a new business venture (spin-out)
I am responsible for providing advice and support on Intellectual Property Rights in relation to research that is carried out by staff and students at Plymouth University.
As part of this role I can:
·         Identify whether there are any registered rights that should be secured (Patents, Registered Design Rights or Trademarks) or whether any unregistered rights can be relied upon (copyright, unregistered design rights, database right or know-how)
·         Assist in the filing of registered rights (Patents, Registered Designs, Trademarks)
·         Determine whether the invention has commercial value
·         Ensure future rights are protected through the use of Non Confidential Agreements and Material Transfer Agreements
·         Commercialise IPR through licensing or the support of a new business venture (spin-out)
BSc in Biochemistry
PhD in Plant Physiology and Molecular Biology,
Masters in Intellectual Property Management
Diploma in law
After completing a PhD at Horticulture Research International I worked as a research scientist in the UK, Germany and Sweden before completing the Masters in IP Management.
I have now worked in the field of knowledge transfer for the last 10 years.
Firstly I worked as Patent Advisor for a biotechnology company for 3 years in the North of Sweden: as a Technology Transfer Manager at King’s College London for 8 years working with faculties in the Medical School and the Dental Institute; and as an IP Executive at Imperial College London for one year before moving to Plymouth.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/becky-moore:
Supporting external organisations to access the University of Plymouth’s world-class research expertise, facilities and talent through Enterprise Solutions https://www.essupport.com/
LinkedIn Profile
University of Plymouth Representative for the Heart of the South West Digital Skills Partnership

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/melanie-penry-jones:
Innovation Officer

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/erandi-de-wass-gunawardena:
STRIDE Business Engagement Officer

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/donate:
Help us to ensure that all students with the potential to excel, have a chance to study at Plymouth.
Find out how you can support our research into brain tumours, Parkinson’s disease, Multiple Sclerosis and Huntington's disease
By making a gift in your will, you can make a difference for decades to come.
Capitalising on our strengths and where we know philanthropy can help our teams make the biggest impact, we have pinpointed three priority pillars for support: marine, health and equality.
Support our work today with a donation.
Run, hike, bake, quiz!
Join the community of people raising funds.
giving@plymouth.ac.uk
+44 1752 588088
Development Office, 8 Portland Villas, University of Plymouth, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA
The University of Plymouth is an exempt charity.
HMRC reference number: XN80875.
Donation Policy and Ethical Funding Guidelines

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/whats-on:
Discover the engaging and creative events taking place at the University of Plymouth and our partners, and keep up to date with what's on locally
28 Jun 2025
Submergence – an immersive installation by Squidsoup (ends 9 August)
24 Jul 2025 11:00-12:30
Rockpool Safaris – Join Devon Wildlife Trust staff and volunteers for a guided tour of some of the best rockpools in the UK!
(various dates)
27 Aug 2025 13:00-15:30
Shoresearch Volunteer Survey – Join Devon Wildlife Trust’s Wembury Marine Centre for a Shoresearch Survey at Wembury Beach (various dates)
Investing in Energy Transition – Exploring the South West's potential £30 billion in inward investment into energy transition (23 September)
Girls into Ocean Science – Join us for a day of discovery and inspiration, and take the first step toward a future in ocean science!
(31 October)
The Lord Caradon Lecture – Lecture by Jon Sopel, one of Britain's foremost journalists and commentators (20 November)
26 Jul 2025
Campus cafes events – Explore our foodie offerings on campus (various dates)
Plymouth Climate Choir Rehearsal – Singing to change hearts and minds on the climate and nature emergency (various dates)
Monthly International Dinners (last Saturday of the month)

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/civic-impact:
Supporting the national effort against coronavirus (COVID-19) “This response has shown our University community’s strong sense of duty and service, and they are acting on that to contribute and to help.” – Professor Sube Banerjee, Executive Dean of the Faculty of Health The University's range of support includes: our students helping the NHS and our staff returning to the front line supporting research into vaccination and delivering training to NHS staff supplying equipment to the NHS and staff in the city providing a psychologically informed response to COVID-19 creatively supporting home-schooling during lockdown.
Find out more about our response
“This response has shown our University community’s strong sense of duty and service, and they are acting on that to contribute and to help.” – Professor Sube Banerjee, Executive Dean of the Faculty of Health
The University's range of support includes:
The Queen's Anniversary Prize for pioneering research on marine microplastics pollution and its impact on the environment and changing behaviour Nearly two decades of world-leading research into the effects of marine plastics on our environment by Plymouth researchers, led by Professor Richard Thompson OBE FRS, has received the highest honour that can be bestowed upon a higher education institution.
Recognition for our discovery of microplastics
Nearly two decades of world-leading research into the effects of marine plastics on our environment by Plymouth researchers, led by Professor Richard Thompson OBE FRS, has received the highest honour that can be bestowed upon a higher education institution.
The University has partnered with Plymouth City Council, Destination Plymouth, Mayflower 400 , Plymouth College of Art and Real Ideas to create iMayflower.
The project aims to help the city’s creative sector realise its potential, offering new opportunities, creative spaces and skills.
Read further details on how the funding will be used
eHealth expert named among nation’s lifesavers A researcher who focuses on improving access to digital health has been chosen for a new campaign highlighting the positive impact of universities on the nation’s wellbeing.
Professor Ray Jones, Professor of eHealth, is included in the ‘nation’s lifesavers’ list compiled by Universities UK, the umbrella group for UK universities.
Read more about Professor Ray Jones's research and the MadeAtUni campaign
A researcher who focuses on improving access to digital health has been chosen for a new campaign highlighting the positive impact of universities on the nation’s wellbeing.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/staff/richard-davies:
Vice-Chancellor Office of Vice Chancellor
Richard is the Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive of the University, and the University’s Senior Accountable Officer.
His role includes:
He has been the Vice-Chancellor of the University since October 2024, when he joined from the University of Newcastle where he was PVC Global and Sustainability.
Prior to this, he was Director of Durham Energy Institute and Dean Knowledge Exchange and Impact at Durham University.
He is an earth scientist by training, studying at the University of Reading and the University of Edinburgh before working in the oil and gas industry for ExxonMobil.
His research has focused on sedimentary basins, climate change and marine methane hydrates.
As Vice-Chancellor, he is committed to enhancing student experience and driving impactful research that benefits Plymouth, the South West, and the wider global community.
In his spare time, he is an avid squash player and plays at a competitive level for the University of Plymouth team.
"Everyone I met in Plymouth was friendly.
People from outside the University were full of praise for it as a place that makes a real, positive difference to the city’s prosperity and diversity, and makes them feel proud to live here."
"I am optimistic about the future, and I will be a tireless champion for the University of Plymouth, as a broad-based university, open to all who can benefit from our educational offer."
+44 1752 582030 richard.davies@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/students-and-family/governance/information-governance/freedom-of-information:
We are committed to openness and transparency
If you're not satisfied with how your request has been handled you can request a review.
We include details about how to do this in all responses to FOI requests.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/7-questions:
If you had the chance to share one message to the whole world, what would it be?
We have been wondering.
This is one of 7 questions answered by a range of thinkers , doers and inspirations from across our community of pioneering students, academic staff and researchers at Plymouth.
The result is a series which celebrates our passions .
A capsule of our collective dreams and anxieties .
A spotlight on those motivated to make a real difference to our future.
With thoughts on issues including conservation and climate change, reducing microplastics, and inspiring our next generation from the classroom, these are 7 questions for us all to answer.
Alice Mosley – Animal behaviour and welfare student, influencing change for a greener world
Ben Ellett – Environmental science student, educating others to protect our planet
Sophie Shaw – primary maths specialist, influencing our next generation from her classroom
Professor Richard Thompson OBE

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/annual-review:
The University is constantly exploring ways to enhance the student experience.
Advancing understanding of the ocean.
Our world-leading researchers are constantly looking for means to develop climate solutions for our planet.
Our expertise across health and care has the fundamental aim of transforming lives.
The University is a hub of creativity – of thought, of practice, and of ambition.
Developing excellence.
Our key research awards in excess of £100,000.
We hosted a number of engaging events in 2023.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/students-and-family/our-stories/150/highlights:
Our 150th anniversary year was packed with many exciting events and highlights

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/university-structure/service-areas/equality-diversity-and-inclusion:
Email: equality@plymouth.ac.uk
Twitter: @PlymUniEquality

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/students-and-family/governance/external-examiners:
Information for University of Plymouth External Examiners
Please return all claims to the email address listed on the honorarium form and the expenses guidance.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/students-and-family/governance/policies-and-regulations/whistleblowing:
Download Whistleblowing policy (pdf)

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/students-and-family:
Your student experience Welcome!
Whether you're a new or returning student, undergraduate or postgraduate, we want to welcome you personally to the University, ensuring you have the best possible experience here at Plymouth.
Plymouth students study a variety of courses from fine art to physiotherapy, business to biology, and design to dentistry.
Everyone has a key part to play in shaping not only the University and the student experience it offers, but also the future that experience provides each and every Plymouth graduate.
Welcome!
Education and Student Experience Strategy Our Education and Student Experience Strategy is in place to ensure that we provide the best education and student experience for our current and future students.
"Our overarching aim is to deliver outstanding education that makes a difference, improving local, national and global communities.” We will do this by meeting specific ambitions, as set out in the Strategy.
Our Education and Student Experience Strategy is in place to ensure that we provide the best education and student experience for our current and future students.
Can I influence how my course is taught in the future?
How do I help to make the University greener?
Can I work for the University as well as study here?
If I have an idea, big or small, to make student experience at Plymouth even better, what can I do?

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/university-structure/service-areas/finance/financial-statements:
Download copies of the consolidated financial statements of the University of Plymouth.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/students-and-family/governance/board-of-governors:
The Board has specific responsibility for the determination of the educational character and mission of the University and oversight of its activities

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/students-and-family/governance/senate:
Learn about our academic governance

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/students-and-family/governance/ueg:
Learn about the University's executive decision-making body
Terms of Reference (pdf)
Vice-Chancellor
Senior Deputy Vice-Chancellor
Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Education and Student Experience
Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Research and Innovation
Chief Financial Officer
University Registrar and Secretary
Executive Dean for Arts, Humanities and Business
Executive Dean for Health
Executive Dean for Science and Engineering

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/students-and-family/governance/review:
Our governance review 2015/16

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/students-and-family/governance/information-governance:
We manage our information through a co-ordinated approach of policies and procedures
Information governance at University of Plymouth is the management of information through a co-ordinated approach of policies and procedures.
Part of this framework is knowing the following about the University’s information:
The primary aim of information governance is to ensure both paper and electronic information are treated appropriately.
In particular, it ensures:
Further information on the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/student-life/your-studies/essential-information/replacement-certificates:
Order and purchase replacement certificates, verification letters and transcripts
examsandawards@plymouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/alumni/new-graduates:
A discount of up to 20% on many of our postgraduate programmes
Lifelong personal business start-up support and events from The Cube
Invitations to networking events and reunions in your area or within your area of interest
University news and updates through our magazine Invenite, and our regular e-newsletter
And so much more
Even now, when I am running a business and beginning my career as an educator, I continue to receive outstanding careers and enterprise support from the University of Plymouth team.
Alumni data policy: We won’t share your information with any third party and you can unsubscribe at any time.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/alumni/benefits:
We create opportunities for our alumni to connect with each other.
Re-connect with fellow graduates or make new connections at one of our events or reunions.
If you studied your undergraduate degree at Plymouth, you may be eligible for a fee discount if you complete your postgraduate studies here as well.
Take advantage of the advice offered by the University's Careers Service for as long as you need after graduation.
This includes career workshops, one-to-one appointments and access to graduate job opportunities.
The Cube offers advice, funding and support at every stage of your entrepreneurial journey.
Come to us with anything from an idea to a fully-fledged business.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/alumni/events-and-reunions:
We all really enjoyed the reunion, and it was fascinating to see the growth there has been in the last 40 years.
It was great to spend the weekend reminiscing and visiting the sites of old haunts.
I would recommend a reunion.
Getting back together renews the friendships and gives a wider perspective of what everyone has done since – people have been all over the world.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/alumni/get-involved:
I love being a mentor, sharing my knowledge and giving back.
I highly recommend it, I always learn something new during each session.
I love seeing the confidence of the mentees grow, they always have so much talent but often don’t see it!
I have met some of the other mentors who are incredible local entrepreneurs and accomplished leaders in businesses across the city.
It has been a great way to network and a fantastic experience.
I have been a mentor for three years now, having successfully mentored two students and currently mentoring a third.
I have mentored both undergraduates and postgraduates, mostly focusing on how to step into the working world after university and beginning a career.
I have been able to share the knowledge and experiences that I have gained within industry and help those that I have mentored.
This has been incredibly rewarding and allows me to demonstrate my development, and help those still at university.
The Gavin Pomeroy Travel Scholarship was kindly funded by a former tutor's legacy
Students are invited to apply for Santander Brighter Futures Grants
The family of Christine King has funded a PhD student researching into her subject passion
The new James Johnston Bursary Fund will help students progressing from foundation programmes to medical degrees
Jordan Garrard has raised £5,000 for research into Huntington's disease

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/alumni/alumni-groups-and-networks:
Alumni+ Dentistry Network Chat and catch up with other dentistry alumni, academic staff and current students.
Gain access to regularly updated information about upcoming events, CPD opportunities and postgraduate courses.
Find information to support applications and references, receive help and advice from the network, and anything else you may need on your dentistry journey.
Join the University of Plymouth dentistry alumni network and start connecting
Chat and catch up with other dentistry alumni, academic staff and current students.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/alumni/data-protection:
Find out about how we collect and manage your data so that we can stay in touch with you

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/news/university-leads-development-of-revised-guidelines-for-primary-care-dentistry:
With the vast majority of dentistry carried out in primary care, Standards in Dentistry is the key document for clinical governance and clinical audit in primary dental care nationally and internationally.
The provision of guidance and standards by dental professionals, for dental professionals, is central to the mission of the College.
Standards in Dentistry is an indispensable reference guide offering a comprehensive pool of information for all those working in general dental practice and primary dental care.
Generations of oral healthcare professionals across the world have been supported by this and other publications in their journey to provide effective clinical care and better outcomes for their patients, and the College will continue to provide this assistance for future generations.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/news/its-results-day-and-clearing-advisors-are-here-to-help:
14 August 2025
Good luck and congratulations to everyone who’s worked so hard to get their qualifications.
My advice is: don’t panic.
Take your time and make sure you’ve done some preparation before you make the call to a university.
Mrs Jane Chafer Chief Marketing Officer
From homelessness to belonging – “Clearing gave me a chance”
One phone call, and the rest is history
How a Clearing student is making waves in ocean science

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/news/filming-at-the-university-of-plymouth:
Explore the facilities we have available for filming
Read our news releases and opinion articles

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/visit/campus-developments:
Supporting investment to create a progressive and sustainable environment in the heart of our vibrant city.
Over the next ten years, the University will be investing significantly in its campus to ensure a first-class learning, research and working environment befitting a leading university.
Our campus will be designed for teaching, working, living and socialising in the 21st century, nurturing excellence, inspiration and creativity.

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/study/why-plymouth:
I have felt really empowered by being able to take responsibility for my own learning and development.
I have proved to myself that I can successfully do my own thing and feel confident in having the skills to take forward beyond university into the real world.
Freya, BA (Hons) Architecture graduate
We nurture your academic achievement Whether you’re diving into the magical world of marine biology or practising dentistry on phantom heads within the first week of the course, our degrees are characterised by an approach that nurtures you into your subject from the outset.
Whether you’re diving into the magical world of marine biology or practising dentistry on phantom heads within the first week of the course, our degrees are characterised by an approach that nurtures you into your subject from the outset.
Every member of staff knows you very well.
You get to know them too.
All so approachable.
So friendly.
If you are having a problem with a practical skill they will take the time to show you again.
They care.
James Nwaduba, BDS Dental Surgery and intercalating MSc Biomedical Science student
I’ve always been able to find help at university when it comes to my mental health.
I’ve found that both my course tutors and disability services are really approachable, so I’ve found it easy to chat openly with them about my struggles.
I’ve also been able to access extended deadlines when I’m finding things difficult.
When I fell ill with an autoimmune disease, the support services were completely invaluable in helping me continue and thrive throughout my studies.
It’s due to this support that I’m on track to finish my degree and get straight into a job.
Seren, current student
Almost straight away when I found my course I knew that Plymouth was the place for me.
The student life, campus and city itself were just a bonus that I did not expect.
Melanie, BSc (Hons) Digital Media Design graduate
4th most affordable student city in England* It’s 46% cheaper to live in Plymouth than in London†
Awarded the Purple Flag for the 5th consecutive year: The Purple Flag accreditation is a testament to Plymouth's commitment to creating a safe and vibrant nightlife

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/jobs/completing-your-application:
Thinking of applying for a job with us?
Read our guidance notes before using our online application system
É technical information
B searching our job vacancies and registering as a new user
C completing your application form
A professorial appointments
J right to work in the UK
) important legal information
T University of Plymouth Criminal Records Bureau Disclosure Policy
University vacancies Current University of Plymouth vacancies Vacancies available to current University of Plymouth staff and students only Casual Workers Bank registration RSS Jobs Feed - subscribe to our RSS job feed and keep up to date with University job vacancies
Current University of Plymouth vacancies
Vacancies available to current University of Plymouth staff and students only
Casual Workers Bank registration
RSS Jobs Feed - subscribe to our RSS job feed and keep up to date with University job vacancies
UCSP & UoPEL vacancies Our subsidiary organisations, UCSP and UoPEL, offer a range of opportunities in the commercial and enterprise sectors.
See the vacancy links below for specific job opportunities or sign up for job alerts with these organisations.
UCSP : University Commercial Services Plymouth Ltd is a wholly owned subsidiary company of University of Plymouth which provides commercial services to a range of clients.
This currently includes retail catering, hospitality, early years' education and childcare.
Vacancies for nursery, catering and hospitality in a University commercial environment UoPEL : University of Plymouth Enterprise Limited offers dedicated support and expert advice to businesses across the South West.
With offices in Redruth, Truro, Penryn and Plymouth; UoPEL offers a variety of locations to work from in the enterprise, innovation and growth sectors.
Vacancies in enterprise, research and consultancy, with University of Plymouth Enterprise Ltd
Our subsidiary organisations, UCSP and UoPEL, offer a range of opportunities in the commercial and enterprise sectors.
employeerecordshr@plymouth.ac.uk
(Monday-Thursday: 08.30-17.00, Friday 08.30-16.30)

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/jobs/employee-benefits:
Enjoy our comprehensive package of core and flexible benefits
Enjoy our comprehensive package of benefits and be part of a fresh community, where we communicate clearly, embrace diversity and value ideas.
Settling in
Whatever your role we’ll ensure you receive a warm welcome and are supported as part of our team, making sure you feel equipped and ready to do your job.
Your manager will provide you with all the information you'll need in your first few weeks, and introduce you to your colleagues and the University campus.
This planned personalised induction programme promotes mutual respect and ensures there’s good communication between managers and employees from the outset.
You’ll also attend a Welcome to the University event where you’ll hear more about our vision and values, and begin to experience how it feels to be part of the University of Plymouth.
It’s also a great networking opportunity that will help you start building strong contacts and connections right from the beginning.
Occupational pension schemes
You’ll be eligible to join generous national public sector occupational pension schemes relevant to your post.
Your percentage contribution will depend on your salary.
Read more about University of Plymouth personal pensions .
Annual leave
Senior managers, professors, academics, researchers and staff on professional terms and conditions (grade 7 and above) are entitled to 35 days leave per annum.
Professional services and operational facilities staff (grade 6 and below) are entitled to 25 days leave per annum.
Flexible working
Each faculty will take account of the needs of individual members of staff.
Requests for changes to working patterns to fit in with family-life/caring responsibilities will be considered fully and, subject to operational needs, will be supported where reasonably practicable.
Family-friendly policies
We have a range of family-friendly policies including maternity, paternity, adoption and parental leave to support our employees.
We also have facilities for expectant and nursing mothers.
In addition, Freshlings Nursery offers childcare to University of Plymouth staff and students, and childcare vouchers are also available.
Performance Development Review (PDR)
Providing a framework for honest and open two-way feedback, your annual PDR allows you to make a development plan to meet your own individual objectives.
It’s also a place to check on progress and ensure we’re supporting you, so that you're confident in delivering what really matters and can achieve your own ambitions, as well as those of the University.
Your salary
Developed in line with the National Framework Agreement for Higher Education Institutions, our pay structure uses a single pay spine underpinned by analytical job evaluation.
Pay for employees on a senior manager contract is negotiated locally and is not part of the framework agreement.
Salaries are normally reviewed annually and many staff are on incremental scales.
You’ll usually be paid on the 25th day of the month, dependent on which day of the week this falls, and pay is credited directly to your bank or building society account.
Here at the University we understand that our success revolves around the people who work here.
Together we’re building a culture where ideas become reality.
Where knowledge and education genuinely transform lives.
We’re equipping staff to fulfil their potential so that together we can build on our collective strength and deliver our vision.
All new academic staff at the University are required to hold, or be working towards gaining, a teaching qualification or accreditation in higher education.
Working with the University of Plymouth you'll have access to a range of facilities and programmes supporting your health and wellbeing.
Occupational Health Service
Access advice and information on employment and other health issues with our Occupational Health Service .
Pop in to find a welcoming face and a friendly ear, as well as a multi-faith prayer room.
Find out more on our spiritual support pages .

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/services/childcare:
@ Offering childcare Monday–Friday
c Open 08:00–17:30
& 50 weeks a year
For children from birth to two years of age
For children aged two
For children aged three and over
An all-weather environment for the children to use
At Freshlings Nursery we have an extensive policy file which details the organisations policies, procedures and advice for parents.
Please see below for some of the policies we feel you as a parent should be made aware of.
If there are any other policies you would like to view please email us at freshlingsnursery@plymouth.ac.uk and we can provide you with a copy.
*Please note that the policies are currently under review
Childcare at the University of Plymouth
freshlingsnursery@plymouth.ac.uk
+44 1752 588550
Freshlings Nursery, University of Plymouth, Endsleigh Place, Drake Circus, Plymouth, PL4 8AA
View the Freshlings Nursery access guide on AccessAble

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/university-structure/service-areas/equality-diversity-and-inclusion/staff-networks:
Twitter @PlymUniEquality
Join the Carers and Parents Network
Join the Staff with Disabilities Network
Join Breathe and Grieve
Join the LGBT+ Staff Network
Join the Menopause Support Network
Join the Women's Network

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/university-structure/service-areas/equality-diversity-and-inclusion/gender-equality/athena-swan:
Gender equity and the underrepresentation of women and men in different disciplines is an ongoing challenge in higher education Research and data show us that women remain underrepresented at senior levels in higher education generally, and there is a notably lower female presence in science, technology, engineering, mathematics and medicine (STEMM) subjects in particular.
High numbers nationally tend to leave academic and research roles in arts, humanities, social science, business, law (AHSSBL) as well as more general professional and support roles at universities.
We want to change that, and that is why we are long- standing members of the Athena Swan charter mark.
Research and data show us that women remain underrepresented at senior levels in higher education generally, and there is a notably lower female presence in science, technology, engineering, mathematics and medicine (STEMM) subjects in particular.
About Athena Swan The Athena Swan Charter is a national initiative that recognises commitment to advancing women's representation and tackling gender inequality in higher education and research.
Originally designed to target improvement for women within science, technology, engineering, mathematics and medicine (STEMM) subjects and senior positions, it has now been extended to include arts, humanities, social science, business and law (AHSSBL), as well as professional and support roles, and for trans staff and students.
Universities and institutions that can prove they are committed to the advancement and promotion of women in STEMM, AHSSBL and support services can apply for membership.
As an institution, we have been a member of the Athena Swan charter mark since 2009.
The Athena Swan Charter is a national initiative that recognises commitment to advancing women's representation and tackling gender inequality in higher education and research.
[ University of Plymouth
Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Biomedical Sciences
School of Health Professions
School of Nursing and Midwifery
School of Psychology
School of Engineering, Computing and Mathematics
Plymouth Business School
School of Arts, Design and Architecture
School of Society and Culture

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/university-structure/service-areas/equality-diversity-and-inclusion/lgbt-equality:
LGBT+ Staff Network
Are you passionate about supporting your LGBT+ colleagues and students?
If you identify as heterosexual and/or cisgender but still want to help the University of Plymouth address LGBT+ equality then you may wish to join our vibrant LGBT+ Allies Network!
By signing up as an ally you will receive a new rainbow lanyard to wear around campus and take part in LGBT+ Allies training so you can learn about the challenges faced by LGBT+ people and how best to support them.
In addition, throughout the year you will be invited to social events, seminars and training courses to help you make the most out of your role as an LGBT+ Ally.
Sign up as an ally
Pride in Plymouth "The University of Plymouth is a very proud sponsor of Pride in Plymouth and it's Annual Pride Festival on The Hoe where thousands of people come together to celebrate LGBT+ pride." Find out more about Pride in Plymouth
Find out more about Pride in Plymouth
Plymouth LGBT Archive "The Plymouth LGBT Archive is an award-winning community archive that is shining a light on the rich life and histories from the Plymouth LGBT communities past and present.
The University of Plymouth is delighted to be a partner of the Archive." Find out more about Plymouth LGBT Archive
Find out more about Plymouth LGBT Archive

New sentences found on https://plymouth.ac.uk/student-life/your-studies/graduation:
Preparing for your graduation ceremony
Your graduation ceremony – on the day
University of Plymouth Graduation Policy
Graduation privacy notice
Book your ticket
Watch previous ceremonies